ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. So, colleagues, I want to let you know the logic of our work after the meeting. In the morning, we placed in order a number of questions. As you know, according to the Rules, we can consider the matter if they are included in the morning after lunch. So after lunch, we will consider these questions. The first one is the staff question, the committee's decision. Others. Colleagues, Fatherland! The question of a moratorium on land. The third is the question of energy. The fourth question is "Buy Ukrainian." These are all the factions that were requirements, they're in this sequence and they're going to go, colleagues. The hall will determine how to vote, but I'll take all the suggestions that there is, I'm counting. And I ask you to be understanding. And on the first question, I ask both John Melniczuk and Jehora Soboljeva to come into the hall to consider this question. I now ask the heads of the faction and colleagues to inform both John Ivanovich Melniczuk and Jehora Sobolev to come to the room now to consider the matter. Next. I would like to inform you that the Central Election Commission, on December 7, 17th, registered the Ukrainian People's Deputy, elected to the Ukrainian People's Deputies' Election on October 26, 14th, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of Zarzko Valerija Leonidovna, included in the election list of the Lachka Radical Party. And as soon as I register, I invite her to take an oath. And I ask that Valeria Leonidovna come to the hall and prepare herself for taking an oath. So, clearly, logic is accepted. And I'm asking you to sign up for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please register, Your Honor, please take part in the registration. Please. [[16:04:29]] 366 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And in accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there a Valeria Leonidovna in the Hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. We'll wait. Okay, we'll wait for her and then we'll make a decision. I just said the logic is clear, it's articulated and it's clear that the next question is the moratorium. We are now moving on to the Soboljev Yegor's draft decision to withdraw from the post of head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption (No.7368). And I want to let you know that the regulatory committee has given the procedure for handling this issue. This procedure provides that there should be a statement by the initiator of the question and a question to him. There must be a speech by Jehora Sobolev and a question to him, and then a brief statement from the factions. This procedure does not require a special vote, it is clearly prescribed by the Rules, and we will act in accordance with the provisions of the Rules. And I give the floor to the report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, three minutes. And I very much ask you to go through the matter in a calm and dignified manner. I address everyone: calmly and with dignity. Listen to John.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Yesterday, at the Committee on Prevention and Opposition to Corruption, members of the Committee decided to express their mistrust to the committee head Soboljevo Yegor Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, I think that when we discuss this issue before we make a decision, very many deputies, especially from our committee, will have the opportunity to make a statement. I'll tell you my personal opinion about why this happened. This was because the anti-corruption committee had ceased to be the committee that was actually engaged in the fight against corruption. He began under the direction of Jegor Viktorovich in the last two years, he began to be the committee that has been altogether hanging labels that allows him to speak on the committee only to those deputies who are eligible to speak to the head of the committee. Day - to - day questions are not put into order by those who are brought before the committee by the members of the National Deputies. When a committee of national MPs comes to us who want to express their views on a matter or another question, they somehow have no opportunity to speak. As recently as this violent incident with the right to speak, the two deputies who came from the People's Front and begged for a chance to speak to them. For some reason, we had it that way, you know, side-by-side. I think that in the following speeches, the national MPs will base this position. I'll tell you my personal position. You can't let a person who makes one of the main committees in the Supreme Council of the Pear Show run a committee that has to fight daily, daily routine work on the eradication of corruption in our country. The eradication of corruption in our country is not a TV show, it's not a label hanging without a trial, no investigation, nothing. So I ask you, honourable Members, let us discuss and support the opinion of most of the members of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Stay in the rostrum. According to the Rules there is a question, Mr. John. According to the Rules, there are three minutes to ask questions. And I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter, please. And once again, I ask everyone to behave in dignity during this discussion. Hence, the question is given to Buglak Yuri Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u4	Dear John Ivanovich, how many meetings of the committee have not taken place in this part of the session since September of this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u5	It is my understanding that there have been at least ten meetings of the Anti-Corruption Committee. I'll tell you what, in official statistics, you're going to see very different numbers right now. Because it has been so often that the committee is meeting and it has no quorum, the committee is splitting up, which can't even be counted as what happened. But then we see in official sources that the committee did. This time. It's a corruption of the committee's work. As a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee, you also know that we have always been on the committee, especially during the last year, there have always been two agendas for the committee. The first order of the day is the one that was distributed to the deputies or their assistants in the legal term. And the second order of the day is the one that was already on the table when the committee was supposed to start. Against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u6	Please add 30 seconds to John.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u7	That's what we've been speaking about since the first session. It can't be that way. Not only do we have me, but other deputies have always said that let's keep the agenda, let's stick to the rules of work, and let's follow the rules of work of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u8	Thank you. Another question, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u9	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, you've just been telling the generals about what a bad leader Sobolev is. I'd like to hear from you or better to see you publicly present your petitions officially on your signature or your colleagues in the last year to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the law enforcement authorities, because here you've mentioned some of the crimes that have already been committed by someone who faked the order of the day, that the two order of the day were, the other moments. To show that you were really trying to do everything possible to force Jehora to work under the law. Because without that, it seems very simple that you're trying to take down the person who's blocking your idea of putting a hand-to-hand NABA audience in order to then completely push on the NABU and destroy the only organ that, at least a little bit, is not controlled by your oligarchic kleptocracy. You're telling me that you can't be loud, you just said it yourself. Show me your papers, your application to the prosecution, your address to the head of the Supreme Council. Where are the documents?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u10	So, look, Mr. Yuri, your difiramba is so long, well, I don't think it's about anything. For some reason, you can read to Mr. Yegor everything he thinks in his social media pages. Read to him what has happened, what has not happened. You're an official user there. You'll be there. Ask the Chief of the Supreme Council. My appeal to the Anti-Corruption Committee is to ask the secretariat of the Committee on Anti-Corruption. Now, your desire to ask questions constantly for two seconds and to talk about it for two minutes and nothing is what happens on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u11	Thank you. The time for questions is exhausted. Please sit down. And I invite you to the account of Jehor Sobolev, three minutes. Mr. Yegor, to the rostrum, I think, don't you? Please. Once again, I ask you to keep yourself worthy. This is a very sensitive question for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u12	First of all, I want to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine for having entrusted me with leading the Committee against Corruption in this convening. To be honest, there was no more important, more difficult and more responsible work in my life. And I am grateful to everyone without exception to the members of the committee who went to work, who didn't go to work, who made decisions that I agreed to, who made decisions that I didn't agree with. It was all a huge school. I think there will be a time when every member of our committee will be proud to have worked on this committee, in this convening, because we have created legislation that I hope will have fundamental consequences for Ukraine. Our first bill, which we jointly drafted and implemented in this Parliament, was a bill on the independence of the Anti-Corruption Office and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. It was this bill that set high wages that enabled independent people to be recruited. It was in this bill that the creation of the Institute of Detectives, now famous detectives of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, and I'm very proud of the colleagues that you and I have drafted this law, approved it, and now it's working. Our second law that we passed was the Law on Illegal Enrichment. This article existed in the Criminal Code, but it was never used by investigators of all, without exception, law enforcement agencies. And you and I copied it so that if an officer, if a politician can't explain his property, he's a criminal. That is what the philosophy of illicit wealth is all about in the most developed countries in the world. And I would like to say with pride that we already have the first lead, the rest of the investigation of this particular article. ATO district attorney Constantine Kulik was charged with illegal enrichment and his case is now on trial. Our following laws are all you know: the law on property disclosure, the Law on the Fullness of Electronic Declarations, the Law on the Prevention of Political Corruption, which allowed taxpayers to finance political parties themselves. All of these decisions, which are already beginning to turn to a new reality for Ukraine. What is the reason for my release? That's what I'm
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u13	Colleagues, please add two minutes. And I'm asking you all. Colleagues, I add two minutes to the right of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u14	The reason for my release is very simple, and I'm very proud of it, too, the reason for my release, that the laws we passed began, maybe for the first time in the history of Ukraine working for us, we started doing them ourselves. Ukrainian national deputies began filling out electronic declarations. And dozens of people came up to me and said, "How do you do that?" What really needs to be written in cash, and that property is written on other people, is also to be written in. And I said this: it's very important that legislation on the Anti-Corruption Bureau began to work. None of the national deputies have been investigated and are being investigated under the same article on illicit wealth, according to other anticorruption articles. I'll say more: our legislation with you leads to the fact that the leadership of the state, the President of Ukraine, the leaders of the political forces, the key political forces feel no longer intact, feel no longer above the law. And that's the main reason for my release. It's about the violations. All the meetings of our committee have been opened, all the transcripts have been published, every citizen can learn what was on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. Three minutes to ask. He's staying in the rostrum. Please record the question. Questions. Three minutes to ask. Krulko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u16	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Sergey Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u17	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, would you please say that, in your opinion, such a committee as your Committee on Combating Corruption and Prevention, such a committee as the Rules Committee would not have such monitoring, control committees in relation to the authority to refer to the opposition? And I know and I understand that the Self-Help faction that you belong to is in opposition. Instead, if this decision passes now, I understand that this committee will lead most of the people's deputies and cover all the corruption that has taken place. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u18	You're absolutely right. I am confident that both the Rules Committee and the Freedom of Speech Committee and the Anti-Corruption Committee have a normal tradition of leading opposition. Our trouble with you was that when we came to this Parliament, there was only one force in the opposition called the Opposition Block. And if you remember, then we demanded that the people who voted in favour of the January 16 laws could not lead the parliamentary committees, give it to others. And so it happened that the majority of the representatives led the committees that we talked about. But in the normal democracy that you and I still have to build, no doubt, these committees have to lead the opposition, where, indeed, the independent, the real opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u20	Mr. Yegor, you know, what's happening right now is for all of Ukraine: the conspiracy between the Dust Block, the People's Front and the Opposition Block. When former corruptionists and today’s corrupters, who have plundered the entire country, have brought the country to poverty, they are now trying to deal with you, and because of you, the Anti-Corruption Bureau. And if it wasn't for the bells, if Yatzenuk hadn't gone to the American ambassador who put him in place last night, they'd have taken the same route to the airport today. And that's why the question to you, Mr. Yegor: please tell me, or is it true that your release is an attempt to destroy the Anti-Corruption Bureau. And is it true that President Poshenko, who came to power after such dramatic events, told you in your eyes that you should put my Pocket Auditor to the NAB or I will take you out of this position so that I can control the NAB before the President's election, so that no one will consider me taking my second term with my corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u21	Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u22	First. As a result of my release, I was threatened in March of this year. I said, "I'm sorry, I'm doing what I'm supposed to do -- resist corruption in this Parliament." By the way, I want to thank Parliament, our committee has found corrupt risks in the Council's 383 bills, and no corruption norm has become the law -- this is a huge achievement of this Council, and I am grateful to everyone for that. As for what you said, Mr. Sergei, I'm sure the plan is now to break the independence of the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, to create a fair anti-corruption court or not to create and close the property of the officials at all. But I'm sure this plan won't work. I am confident that Ukrainian society will lead to the end of the matter of cleansing power.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u23	Thank you. And the final question is Odarchenko. I'll give it to you, yeah. Odarchenko, please, one last question. The next one is Eutusek, the next one is Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u24	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko "The Fatherland." Mr. Yegor, it is clear to everyone in Parliament that you are now being debated, as the person under whose direction the committee has always been at the heart of the fight against corruption and has created real tools for it. I have a simple question for you, and most of the members of the committee that have been put on the committee for a special hearing on you have now voted in favour of your release. Please tell me, have any of them ever officially applied to the regulatory committee or did they present you with legitimate claims, or did it accumulate at the last moment and when they were instructed, they poured it out as a motion for removal of your documents? Did they have any arguments?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u25	No one complained to me. I'll say more, all my committee colleagues in private talk say, you know, we're not against you, you're a good person, just like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u26	Colleagues, let's ask you one last question. Nemirowski's handing over Knyazevich, that'll be the last question, then a minute from the factions. I'll give you a line, stop waving your hands. Please, Princey, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yegor, you've named a number of bills that you consider to be your greatest piece of work, this is the Anti-Corruption Act, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, the Prosecutor's Office, this is a really big piece of the Ukrainian Parliament. But the last call of the seventh, where your spirit was not, and I'm telling you, as a representative of the President in Parliament, I reported them from the rostrum of Parliament, because these were the President's initiatives, please don't anoint them. Thank you. Take responsibility for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u28	On one occasion, the chairman of the legal committee, Ruslan Knyazevitch, sent us a letter saying that no law could be passed on to exposers because it was unconstitutional. And this letter referred to a non-existent article of the Constitution. I'm not going to argue with you, you said correctly, the Anti-Corruption Bureau Laws were passed in the last summons, just as the Anti-Corruption Act was passed in general by Viktor Yanukovic. But true independence. [[B in m in s a l in]] I recommend you calm down, you're going to need a lot of peace in the near future. In the days of Viktor Yanukovich, legislation was introduced, including declarations by all officials who simply did not. After the Dignity Revolution, you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u29	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u30	When Parliament stood around citizens like you, it said that they were now in favor of the people, they voted in favour of the new edition and the new name of the law. But the real independence, the actual formulation of the articles on illicit wealth, on the completeness of the declarations, was brought by this Parliament. And that parliament and this one should be proud of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. Now I'm going to give a line to the Opposition Block. Thank you, Mr. Yegor. One minute, Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! I suggest you all stop looking for enemies in this room, because you are all the same enemies. And now essentially, the question is, it's not about Sobolev, absolutely, it's about you having no moral right to say anything to the Opposition Block. When you were a coalition and you were 300, you didn't give this parliamentary faction any authority to carry out your functions. All the positions you've been given have been given thanks to your being in the coalition, and if you have morals and European values, then all those who have left the coalition voluntarily make up your positions as heads, deputy heads of the committee, and don't put this as a coin of exchange, go to Europe, say, we're in opposition, and just like all factions, in accordance with the absence of law, we don't have such powers, write a statement, go and don't become a hostage parliament, don't become fighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u33	Colleagues, pay attention! Now I can give you a minute's replication of factions that want to speak. What factions do they want to speak on? Two minutes. Two minutes for the show, colleagues, please. Who has a desire to speak. Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, then Berezuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to address those who are accused of corruption and those who are accused of corruption, especially Ukrainians, that's all you see -- encounters and accusations, there's no real fight against corruption in the country. The fight against corruption has turned into a tool of political struggle to collect accounts, that's all. And those who fight corruption and those who do not seem to fight corruption all yearn for one thing: power. And they want to use the laws created by this Parliament, with the help of and including our faction, there would be no laws without us, no anti-corruption bodies to collect political accounts. When the head of the NABU, when the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor of Washington, ignores the decision of the parliament that calls them for a report, says they have more important things to do and they'll be in Washington by December 12, I think it's a humiliation to Ukraine because we're a parliamentary-presidential republic. And I want to tell everyone -- both the director of the NAB, and the head of the SAP, and the Attorney-General, and the ambassadors who govern us, the presidents, the governments and the prime ministers, who are all to be ruled by the Ukrainian people, and the Parliament is to be the voice of the Ukrainian people, and it is to be parliamentary control, not to be removed by the heads of the IMF from consideration of the law on the establishment of this parliamentary control. So we don't have to tell you that you're fighting corruption: you're agents of foreign influence and you're turning the country into a tool to fight the powerful world of this. Ukraine should be ruled by Ukraine, not by foreign embassies — either Moscow or Belgian or Washington. Stop demeaning Ukraine with less value!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u36	More than two thirds of the Ukrainian Parliament are representatives of the oligarhat, which for more than two thirds depends on the age-old enemy of the empire, Russia. And corruption is an internal tool for the destruction of the Ukrainian independent state. For the first time in 25 years, Parliament, and more faithfully, the oligarch coalition has merged in one corner and is destroying the balance of power in Parliament that it has created. Ruins anticorruption authorities to order despotion and tyranny. Why? Because it was this tyranny that freaked out the anti-corruption tool -- the committee, the anti-corruption tool -- the NABU, and it didn't want to create a final tool -- the anti-corruption court. And that's why the committee's destruction is the destruction of the anti-corruption system in Ukraine. That's why you have to take Egor Sobolev, because he's today for Ukraine, not just Yegor Sobolev, but a symbol that anti-corruption will still be in Ukrainian society. And two-thirds of this Parliament, which today came together with the BP, the People's Front, the Opposition Block, is the representation of the oligarchy, the tyranny that consciously or unconsciously, freely or unwillingly represent and destroyers, serving the enemy inside or outside, the Ukrainians see it. And that's why I'm addressing you, be wise wise statesmen, keep your balance and fight for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u37	Thank you. From Rebirth Group, Nichiporenko from the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u38	Good evening, dear fellows! I would like no longer to speak, but to ask Jehor Sobolev a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u39	You don't need to ask. You don't need to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u40	Well, that's not a question, then we'll consider it a performance. Yegor will then come up to me and speak his mind on this matter. In all, in all parliaments and virtually all countries, however, parliamentary committees are also given opposition factions. [[Applause]] And this is done for, including, I think, anti-corruption. Why has the anticorruption committee never raised this issue in the Supreme Council? Because this is one of the mechanisms for preventing corruption, I won't be now. It's not a claim, it's just a simple question. I'm not going to judge your work, it's just a question. You don't have to answer now, then explain to me why it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u41	Thank you, colleagues. I want to tell you again. I was told that the regulatory committee gave me a form of leadership and there was only factions and groups. Colleagues, this is the closing line from Peter Dustenka's Block, Arthur Gerasimov, two minutes and so on. Yeah, I'll give it to the factions and the groups. You have two minutes, please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u42	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, the fight against corruption in this country is one of the key tasks of all branches of government and parliament, and all the anti-corruption bodies that I want to remind have been created through the initiatives of the President of Ukraine and this Parliament. We all voted with you to create these anti-corruption bodies. And many in this room were co-authors of anticorruption laws. But one of the key links in this fight is the work of the Anti-Corruption Committee. Was it effective? After associating with members of the committee from our faction, I can say that unfortunately, no. And I'm going to give you a very simple example that we've heard during the presentations by law enforcement officials who were invited by Parliament to this room. It's clear that there is no way in the NABA Act, unfortunately, to recruit, as they say, "unspoken agents" or non-existent employees. Are we ready to fix this and add it? No questions asked, of course, ready. But there's a very simple question: why didn't the committee, if I'm not mistaken, put half a sentence in a year and a half? And here's the question why a lot of questions weren't about voting, why they didn't respect the members of the committee, and why there were so many other questions. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this decision and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u43	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, two minutes. Then we go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their seats. I'd like the factions' heads to inform the MPs: in two minutes, there will be a vote. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u44	Colleagues, how does the Ukrainian Parliament differ from many parliaments in the world? The Ukrainian Parliament decided to represent key factions on the Committees of the Supreme Council 20 years ago in the Rules of Procedure Act. What's happening now, the process, we all understand perfectly: it's not the process of taking off Jegor Sobolev, it's the process of creating a new coalition. Since the two factions, the People's Front and the BPP, lack the votes, they need the votes of the Opposition Block. And that's why if you see who initiated this question yesterday, these were three key factions of Parliament, namely: the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front and the Opposition Block. So I think it's not surprising that today the interests of those who don't know any of your appointed Attorney-General are the key leaders who are sitting in this session room. You need to deal with your own, for the most interesting process began when you made arrangements with practically everyone in this session hall, and you now have to deal with those who were your friends and allies yesterday. Where it leads is quite obvious. Everyone understands that there is no claim to the work of the committee. The claim is one thing -- we want to eat, and so all we're doing right now is dealing with it and nothing else. The "Fatherland" faction to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, I haven't taken the Opposition Block yet. I'm sorry. So Wilkul of the Opposition Block. I made a brief promise. Please. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please, Mr. Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u46	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues, we don't mind having a self-help representative lead this committee. But we are personally against Jehor Sobolev. This is an immoral type with a double, triple, or four morals. Here he says he's the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Here he says he's better. A better person in the world, and there were so many times when he personally beat up our activists, and he had nothing to do with it. Using the fact that he's head of the committee, he's covered by both the D.A. and the M.E.S., and the whole system. When he was pursuing an illegal third round of elections in the city of Krivi Rig. Illegitimate third tour. We won all the courts, all the courts were won, even though Mrs. Siroid, vice-speaker of the council, was personally sitting on the courts and pushing judges. It's the most democratic faction. Jegor Sobolev personally threw himself on the floor, personally reminded himself of the mayor’s table, 69 years of age and chosen by the people, 74 percent of the votes. I think it's an immoral type that only fights for power, only for power, and it has nothing to do with anti-corruption and the struggle for democracy. Thank you. So our position is to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u47	Colleagues, I'm asking for a replica of Yegor Soboljevo's one minute. He's handing out the Berezuk line, and we're voting. Replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u48	Here's what happened: That's who you're voting with, dear BPP, People's Front and dear Democrats. In a good way!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u49	Colleagues, discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Everyone, please come into the hall. In accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 83 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Decree No. 7368 on the withdrawal of Sobolev Yegor from the post of head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the prevention and resistance of corruption for adoption in general. Please vote, please vote, vote. [[16:42:55]] For 256 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u50	The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubia. Dear colleagues, and take this opportunity, allow me to welcome the delegation of the Knight of the Republic of Israel to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Let me thank our friends for the friendships that are between us today. It's the Knight of the Republic. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come to your seat. And we now give the floor to our Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Paruba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u51	Colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm asking you to calm down, and pay attention, and please listen to me. As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I supported the committee’s decision. But I don't think today's decision has made the Ukrainian Parliament stronger. Four years ago, the majority of those present together stood on the platform shoulder to shoulder. And sometimes I wonder what happened to us? What happened to us in those four years, colleagues? [[(Applause) (Applause) (Applause)]] I, colleagues, want to say that we have been three years of our caedence, and we have responded to the enormous challenges facing the Ukrainian state. But most importantly, two years ahead of us are still hard work when we have a Russian aggressor when we have an external war. So I would like us to reject as much as possible all the conflicts that are between us, so that we feel the responsibility and need for unity. All these three years we have also worked with Jegor Sobolje's head of the Anti-Corruption Committee. And I now think the Ukrainian Parliament should thank Yegor for the work he did in three years. And I ask you to thank Jehora. Mr. Yegor, thank you! We still have two years to work, colleagues. And I'm sure that those two years we'll be able to work hard. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u52	And I hope that emotion will have no upper hand, but it will have responsibility and love for Ukraine. Thank you! Colleagues, the Ukrainian national deputy Zarusko Valerija Leonidivna has just arrived. And we can perform the oath-reading ritual. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zárko Valeria Leonidivna, is invited. Please, Mrs. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u53	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Ukrainian National Deputy Private Valeria Leonidovna
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u54	Thank you! Congratulations on your entry into office! Thank you. Take the flowers. Please take your job and get used to the work of the Ukrainian national deputy. Dear colleagues! We are now moving on to the issues that we discussed on the Conciliation Council. This is a question of continuing the moratorium on the sale of land. These bills are several, these are five alternative bills. And we're going to listen to each author of the bill separately: 7350, -1, -2, -3, -4, -5, -6, -7. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please vote in favour, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:48:07]] For-153 Decision taken. And I'm starting to invite you to the report, starting with the first bill that was registered. I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Petrovic, to the report. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The question of a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land remains one of the most controversial in Parliament’s walls. Politicians of all times speculated on the subject. They continue to do so today. And the market is waiting. Agrarians want to know what they're going to do, what prospects and what future they're going to have. In turn, the authorities do not carry out information and clarification work on this issue. And when there's no information, it's clear that they're suspicious of what they're cooking -- whether they're cat in a bag. He held dozens of meetings in his constituency, and I know what people think and what they want. Hence, people today need to be made clear what is expected of them tomorrow. People are not ready to open up the market because they have been put into their heads for years. It is obvious that the earth must be released for free navigation. But we all understand very well until the native agrarians -- though small, though large -- really can't buy this land, we don't have the right to allow ourselves to let go of the market today. So a full market opening needs to be delayed and postponed for a specific period. Clearly plan actions at all levels for this period. That is why, along with our colleagues, we tabled Bill 7350, which we propose to continue the moratorium for another year, until 1 January 2019. The profile agrarian committee supported this very bill for voting in the session room. Why such a term? Because we need to do full-scale land inventory, in maximum cooperation with industry professionals, experts, different professional associations, farmers, to figure out and propose a real action plan and, above all, to create a level playing field for the owner of the land, to really feel the owner. Of course, it is possible to prescribe a moratorium of both three and five years. But it's just a matter of asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u56	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u57	So, colleagues, I ask you all to reject political ambitions on this rather sensitive and social subject, and to group around the search for compromise. We need to make a joint responsible decision in the interests of the people. And today, I think it's time. Therefore, I would like to support Bill 7350 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our discussion. And now the alternative bill will be reported by the national MP, Oleg Barna. Please, Mr. Oleg. Prepare Julia Timoshenko. Get Caplin ready, then Julia Timoshenko. Mr. Oleg, your Bill 7350-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u59	Praise Jesus Christ! Honourable deputies and Ukrainian people! The earth is the wealth of the entire nation, not of each of us. The earth belongs to the people and to our land. It was the blood of our heroes of all times fighting for independence. Clearly, then, no one has the right to make the earth a commodity. You can trade yours — houses, property, factories, but not land. And obviously, the question lies in the efficient use of land, the need for the land market, but it needs to be the land rental market, the use of land, where we give land to our fellow citizens, farmers to create jobs, pay taxes, support infrastructure. But if they want to own the land in order to resell it or rent it or subordinate it, that should not be the case. So obviously my law was aimed at taking into account the circumstances that the situation with the land was too politicized by this composition of the Supreme Council, that the issue of the earth had become a manipulation. And so this composition of the Supreme Council cannot objectively make a rational decision, and the continuation of the moratorium by 2026 imposes these powers on the new composition of the Supreme Council, which will make a balanced, reasoned decision, with as much convenience as possible and principally efficiency and benefit the Ukrainian people and our state. So, honourable deputies, the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block, first came out of the rostrum in the 15th year on the extension of the moratorium on land. And we will now continue this subject and vote in favour of the moratorium until the decision of the fate of the earth is in good hands. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill, Sergey Kaplan 7350-2. Yes, yes, please, Mr. Sergei. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u61	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party. First of all, I'd like to go to the millions of Ukrainians who are watching this air right now. You have to know, dear friends, they don't want to make the land a commodity, they want to make the peasants a product, they want to make the workers a commodity, they want to make small businesses, ordinary Ukrainians. We've been privatizing this for 27 years. 27 years ago, our country was 18th in the world at the level of industrial potential, 7.5 thousand large factories and factories, tens of millions of people who received a decent salary, who received a decent pension from the International Monetary Fund, came to the Ukrainian Parliament and took nearly 5,000 of these enterprises. This is what they are trying to do with Ukrainian land today. Today, thousands of citizens from all over the country have come to the Ukrainian Parliament, to the Ukrainian Parliament, activists, members, leaders and functionaries of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party, the Party of Pensioners, the Party of Workers of Ukraine, we have come forward with a hard ultimatum if the coalition carries out this disgraceful law on opening up the land market, we will stand for the resignation of Groisman. If this shameful budget is adopted today, we will stand for the resignation of Groysman. People just say, "Caplin, the rock is rolling." And we will make sure that the earth returns to the people so that the people will return to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our discussion. And now for the next bill, which will report to the national MP Ivchenko. Please. This is Bill 7350-3, alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u63	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, today we're not asking how many years we're going to continue the moratorium. Today, the question is not to lose the last. The agricultural system of the country consists of four subjects: households and singles; farmers who are different, 30 hectares and those who fly on screws around their crops; they are agricultural enterprises and large integrated companies — agroholdings. Can you please tell me who the grant is? Tell me, who's working with the agrarian fund? Please tell me, who's behind bars to get loans from banks? Well, it must have turned out that we have two groups -- big agroholdings and small-scale peasants. What did the State do for people living in the village? Today, there are 14 million people living in the village. Five million singles who are not entitled to a decent pension. What did the State create for them to have a decent pension? Colleagues, what do we say about those who give away milk for nothing? What are the valueless meats in a living weight? Well, I guess we need to change agrarian politics. Well, it is likely that the land should eventually be occupied by the territorial communities. Well, you probably have to make sure that we forget about camping in agrarian businesses once and for all. Guys, we have a lot to work with. Let's work, let's make it possible for people to go out, maybe in the future to buy, maybe to go to banks, maybe to become producers and get a decent price for their products. We're here to continue the moratorium, so far the country's not ready. What makes our bill different. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u64	30 seconds, please. Please, 30 seconds. I'm coming to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u65	What makes our bill different? We passed a bill prohibiting the notary from registering previous contracts. Because they come to people, they make contracts, and then they go to the notary, and they register, and they tell that grandma that you've already sold the land. We banned the sale of OSH land because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u66	Thank you. The position is clear. We're moving on to the next alternative bill of National MP Yuri Lewchenk. Mr. Yuri, are you in the hall? Yes. Bill No. 7350-4. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u67	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Dear Ukrainian people, our television and radio audiences! Regrettably, most of the people who speak out or speak out of this rostrum, or from the hall, today talk about the fact that power is now bad, you don't have to trade in land, and then a little later will be better authority, we'll come to power and then you have to trade the land, then you can do anything. What makes our bill different? Trade in agricultural land is not possible at all – it is a crime against the nation and the state, it must be prohibited. As early as September 2015, we registered a draft Law banning trade in agricultural land. Unfortunately, because of the phobias of the oligarhat, even discussing the matter, it has not been brought to the Supreme Council Hall for two years. So in this bill, we're talking to an alternative that we need to continue the moratorium until we pass a bill banning trade in agricultural land. The land of agriculture is the only resource left in the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state. Strategic enterprises are looted and distributed, completely all monopolies or given away, or controlled by private individuals, the state does not control its navels, the nation does not control all its resources at all, only the land remains a strategic resource of the state. Normal authorities could build economic policies on this and lead us to world leaders. Unfortunately, this oligarchic kleptocracy does not want to do this, but the time will come when Ukraine will still have normal authority and it will. Thus, we must preserve the land of the Ukrainians for future generations. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u68	Colleagues, the next alternative bill, Alexander Vilkula, 7350-5. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u69	Dear people of Ukraine! This is the most important question, and we should not let the authorities sell out the last thing left in Ukraine and in humans, this is the land. The moratorium ends on January 1, 2018, one option, simply to continue the moratorium for another year. And even though it's a half-way trip, but we're going to support it, we're going to vote for all the possibilities to block the sale of land. I'm going to say, another moratorium doesn't essentially solve the problem, it just gives you another delay. So I passed Bill 7355, which prohibits the sale of land until a nationwide referendum is held. It's not the MPs, and people have to make decisions whether they want to or not. Let the authorities come out and honestly say, we, the authorities, for selling land, we, the opposition, honestly go out and say, we're against sales, let's see what kind of decision people are supporting. I'm sure they will support us, and that will remove any manipulation of this issue in the future. Bill 7355 proposes to amend the "Transitional Regulations" of the Ukrainian Land Code. Before conducting and establishing the results of the referendum, it is proposed to ban the sale of land, including alienation by other means, emphithesis, and the introduction of land into statutory capital. At the same time, if the owner needs to sell the land, he can sell it to the state at market value. This price is determined on the basis of prices for land in the EU, while Ukraine is Europe, people should also receive European prices for land. The final decision on what to do with the land must be made by the people of Ukraine to whom it belongs in the All - Ukrainian referendum. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! The following two alternative bills belong to the authorship of our distinguished colleague Alexi Musak, so I'm going to give him three minutes to present each of these bills. Please, this is 7350-6, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u71	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainian community! Alexei Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block. One of the national deputies. One of the many national deputies who advocate the expansion of Ukrainian economic rights. First and foremost, today people have said a lot about how we continue the moratorium, but that is not true, because we have a moratorium forever until the law is passed. If the moratorium is not continued even today, there will be no market for the earth. That's why today's vote for the moratorium is just a symbol. The symbol that the Ukrainian has no economic rights in his homeland. This is a repetition of the Lenin Decree in 1917, which is that in Poland the Ukrainian can buy and sell land and in Ukraine it cannot. Many today have said against what are they speaking: both against the earth’s market and against something else, but listen, see what is happening in the state? The land is already being bought and sold, to the right and to the left. If you don't know it, you're torn away and isolated from reality, and you've never been to the village. Second, this land is purchased with zero taxes for the state. Third, it's bought twice as cheap as it would be if the market were. And that's actually the main thing, that's what you're fighting for. Because you don't say what you're up against, and you say what you're up against. I'll tell you what. You, for the lowest rent, for the world's best land is the truth. You are for the leased land to be exhausted, for the owner of the land will never be barbaric in his land. You're in charge of not paying any taxes to the state, you're in favour of actually having foreigners own Ukrainian land. Because they say foreigners will come if the earth market opens. And my question is, who's renting Ukrainian land now? Who's taken it for 49 now and sometimes for 100 years? Who? These are foreigners, and these are foreign companies, including Chinese, and emphyteussis also exists. And then it's still the main thing, right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u72	30 seconds, please finish this law. And then the next one, the bill, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u73	It actually says, "No, the sale of Ukrainian land," or the sale. In fact, they have to be properly said, "Let's go! I'm going to sell out Ukrainian land," because the land is now being sold out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u74	Thank you. Don't run away. We also voted today on a bill to combat violence, Mr. Kaplin, I very much ask you not to apply here. And the next bill, Your Honor, is the next Bill of Alternatives, 7350-7. I invite you to the words of author Alexi Musaka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u75	Look, now, about that. For my drafts, if the moratorium is sacred, let it work until Christmas, my previous bill was that the moratorium is until 7 January, before Christmas, if so. If you do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, if you think it's too long. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u76	Don't shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u77	Let's do the moratorium by January 19th, to Vodhrest to make the Vodhrest happen, and all the really communist devilish things have gone away from Ukraine, actually. Therefore, respectable fellow workers should not be deceived by the Ukrainian people, nor should they be kept in poverty, poverty, or cheaply redeemed through the various shadow schemes of the earth. In fact, let's just do the development and drafting of the laws after the start of the earth, but the problem is that those people who came to me in actually three years they didn't submit any drafts that would launch the land market. This Parliament has been continuing the moratorium for the third time, the moratorium has continued for the third time, and I'm even confused, but I'm not suggesting anything after that. Do you know what happens at this time? It's a very simple thing to do, because of free privatization of 150,000 hectares of land every year. It's simple. We're getting smaller, we're getting poorer. That's why, dear fellows, I'm now proposing to break down the moratorium as one that doesn't decide anything, but it's just a symbol of the abuse of the Ukrainian people, and I'm still working on the relevant bill, and the market doesn't launch it. And finally. There's been a lot of talk here about the earth being a national wealth and our last resource. I think it's not really the land of national resources, it's the people of national resources. That's what I'm talking about! And that's what we have a problem with, because people are leaving Ukraine. In Poland, Ukrainians have more rights than in Ukraine, they can buy and sell land, they have rights in Canada, in Britain, Germany. Sam. They're going there because life is better there. And the continuation of the moratorium is, in fact, a continuation of poverty, of poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u78	Are you done? 30 seconds to go. I gave everyone 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u79	Thank you very much. And I ask you not to support any of the bills aimed at extending the moratorium, except for my last two -- sixth and seventh. Thank you very much for your attention. We'll win together!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u80	Thank you. Colleagues, so we've listened to seven alternative bills that relate to the same issue: a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. And now I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Alexander Bakumenka. I think we're going to give colleagues five minutes right now, because there were seven bills, well, and that's just really hard to do in two minutes, summarizing the committee's hard work. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u81	Mrs. Irina, I don't need five minutes, because I'm going to brief the deputies very briefly. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on December 5, 2017, discussed nine bills that were on the committee. According to the Committee's consideration, the bill, registration number 7350, is proposed to continue the moratorium for one year; the bill, registration number 7350-1 and registration number 7350-2, is proposed to extend the moratorium for six years to 2024 and five years to 2023; the bill, registration number 7350-3, inter alia, is to continue to ban the purchase, sale and other way of alienating land by 1 January 2023. Bill 7354 proposes to continue the moratorium until the legislative regulation bans trade in agricultural land. In its conclusion of 4.12.2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusions of 5.12.2017, does not deny that the adoption of Bill 7350-1, 7350-2 may be taken into account in the consideration of Bill 7350 and the final definition of the moratorium, the bill's proposals of Bill 7350-3 on the duration of the moratorium may also be taken into account in the consideration of Bill 7350. And the bill of registration number 7350-4, based on the first reading, should be rejected. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill of registration number 7350 from 30.11.2017 to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. All the alternative bills are rejected. Please, considering the above, support the committee's decision and adopt bill registration number 7350 as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bakulenko. Buckumenko. Colleagues. You can sit down. I ask the factions to sign up for the discussion and, given the relevance of the issues, of course, all factions will be able to join, have two minutes to discuss these bills, please. The will of the people is Labazük. They're handing the word Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. Please, Mr. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u83	Respectful colleagues are evidently required to enact one of the laws. This is a necessary step that indicates that the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in fact, were inaction in their pursuit of the looting of Ukrainian lands. Obviously, with the adoption of this Moratorium Act for one year, it is necessary to clearly write out a plan of executive power, and before this plan is implemented, any equipment with land must be banned, because today the heads of administration are facing plans for how much they should accumulate land and rent it. You are well aware that these tasks come to them from Kiev, since before the earth’s market is declared, the whole earth needs to be taken away. So the task of land inventory, to whom, on what grounds, and everything that is illegal, is to return; the second is to deal with land that is not asked and to make an assessment of land, but not as defined in the draft budget: what will be assessed, and if the authorities, I mean the communities, disagree with this assessment, this assessment will come into force in a month. We know what this evaluation will be to take away those to whom it has already been attributed. We need to be clear about what we need to do. Four or five more years -- no one's going to need this land anymore, they're going to burn it down, and they're going to take it all away. You need a clear job. And now we have to make a decision as a matter of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u84	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u85	Dear friends, this is about extending the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. But I want to say that in this case, as in all others, the poverty of the people is a direct consequence of the corruptness and stupidity of honest political elites, political leadership. If sales are corrupt and stupid or corrupt or stupid, people suffer. And so we need to learn in those countries that can manage their resources. And I just heard a gentleman here from Peter Poshenko's Block, who is a direct relative of the largest owner of monopolies land (that's 700,000 hectares), and he's cruising up here, crying like a crocodile on this stand, eating the victim and telling me how bad it is that they pay a little rent. So what's your cousin, sir, paying so few rents to the lodgers today? Because you've already eaten so much, you've had so much, it's just a pleasure for you to get out of the roost. And that's why we can only sell the land if there are peasants who have money to buy it, not a mob that has money to buy everything from the peasants. As in France, when farmers worked on land for nine years and then rented land, they thought about selling it to their families. And when they inherit, they look: This heir will cultivate the earth or sell it. And if you sell it, they don't give it to him. I want to tell you, stop. Ukrainian land is priceless! And its market value is 3.5 trillion euros. That's 40 years of GDP in the country. And if you don't have what you don't have right now, you're going to be judged by the people under your sneezing in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u86	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u87	It's a different path. Not the thieves who have just served the oligarchs and have bled in the stands here, but the people need to be able to make 2.6 million farms, like in Poland. Not 30,000, like today, and then thinking about selling land to farmers. Definitely against the sale of land and the extension of the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u88	Thank you, colleagues. I would still ask for personal images and such bad words to be maintained, speaking from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Berezuk, please. Oleg Berezuk of Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u89	Even a hundred years ago, Ukrainians were stripped of their land. The land was taken away from them, and those who fought were physically destroyed. Has the land been returned to the Ukrainian peasant to this day? No, it's not. We as a Ukrainian independent state have not yet done this, this function. Today the land is not in peasant hands. Today, in twenty - five years, the class of those who work on earth, farmers, and singles has grown to size. Can they buy land today? No, they can't. They can buy land from agroholdings, oligarchs, prosecutors, and judges. Has the Ukrainian State been able to create free market conditions? No, it's not. Should I Continue the Moratorium? Yes, but who will make the conditions under which the free market will be the instrument of the real return of the peasant earth? Who will do this? Each year it continues, and every year the oligarhat does nothing to bring this land back because it waits for the moment when it is stolen. And that's why today we're talking about solving a difficult question. First, the oligarchs cannot be allowed to steal the land and must be voted in favour of an extension of the moratorium. But on the other hand, how can we make us, you, me, a government to create free market conditions this year, a single tool for the development of Ukrainian land and Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u90	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u91	as the owner of this land, not the optional owner of what is like the owner, but not the owner, because it is also a form of slavery. So Self-Help has made decisions and some people who specifically vote for the moratorium, and there are those who will show us that we have done nothing to create free market conditions for a free peasant.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, next from Peter Dustenk's Block. Oh, God, excuse me. I am. Mr. Lavrick has his word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I know that perhaps I will say from this rostrum right now those words that will cause you a storm of emotion, perhaps even negative. I don't want to go into history, but my previous colleague touched on this story. My grandfather was a chicken, and for only a few years he felt like a owner, a landlord on his land, and bought a lot of assets by owning his family, so he was sent to Kolima and shot at the stage. My mother was sent to the Karst Gates when she was 16 years old and was killed for that land. Today, the owner of a land that is not actually ruled by this land. What kind of property is it that I can't manage and sell? What kind of property is this? [[Applause]] We're talking about extending the moratorium. But how many years have we been doing it? Earth is goods, goods is land. Let's open people up, they're smart and they know what to do. And we trust them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u94	Dear Mr. Mikola, thank you very much for your position. Thank you very much. And now, a few more factions aren't signed up for the performance, but of course they're joining the performance. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party. Then we move on. Everyone has two minutes. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u95	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I agree with my distinguished colleague, the former Governor of Montenegro and the Sustenance of Lavrik Mikola Ivanovich. Yes, Your Honor Mikolo Ivanovich, we have men of wisdom, only the poor. They want to rule their land. Only today are they not able to do this for one reason -- they're going to take this land for a penny. And the land to feed their children and grandchildren and great - grandchildren will feed the latifundists and feed the authorities. He will feed any other nation, but not ours. Therefore, to be wise, our people still need to be given money. So that the land would cost money. That's why we've registered, and I'm also addressing a colleague of mine, Bérezuk, whose faction has not been signed under amendments to the Constitution, and my esteemed colleague, Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Let us work together and make changes to the Constitution. 180 national deputies have already supported our initiative. And we will write in article 41 of the Constitution that agriculture is the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine. To make the farmer a farmer, the Ukrainian peasant is the master of our land! It's not the latifundists who are being jumped here, it's not the transnational corporations for which technical cultures and earnings are the main ones, it's the farmer who takes care of the cow, it's the social sphere, it's about jobs. The man who lives and processes this land. It's not going to be run by any of the foreign capitals. And that's why we're proposing. We support the moratorium, but we demand that the changes to the Constitution be considered as soon as possible. To secure Ukrainian land forever behind Ukrainian peasants. That they may not be only wise but rich, worthy, with work, with wages, with a cow, and with the future!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u96	Please, Natalia Royal, as well, from the Opposition Block, two minutes. Natalia. Yeah, and then you're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, I'm sure everyone in this room understands that land is the last thing left in our country. This is the only chance our country will ever get off its knees. And the Opposition Block requires: 5 years of moratorium. You don't have to monopolize, manipulate, and keep people stressed every year. Nor can there be two thoughts. The land belongs to humans, and it is the people who must answer the nationwide referendum whether to record or not a moratorium on its sale. That's why the Opposition Block offers the first stage -- five years of moratoriums, five years later -- to hold an all-U.S. referendum. And people's answer: Selling land, goods is whether it's property that belongs to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Now the sale of Ukrainian land is in no way possible and cannot be made under any circumstances. And this is our wealth, and it must remain in the hands of the people. That's why the Opposition Block will vote in favour of each of these bills because we are solely in favour of extending the moratorium on land sales. But for the future, we have to work it out and continue the five-year moratorium and ban the sale of Ukrainian land now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u98	Thank you, colleagues. Just, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a minute. Okay? Two minutes, okay. Kulinich, two minutes. Okay. Kulinich, two minutes, Head, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, whatever decision we make today, it is clear that it will be a political decision. Because the Earth Code clearly states that the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land ends after the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Circumvention of Agricultural Lands. Paragraph 215 "Transitional Regulations" of the Ukrainian Land Code. Therefore, it is clear that there will be no land market since January 1, 2018, and the moratorium will work. Every year we continue the moratorium and give people no alternative. Do we not know that we have a shadowy market for the earth? We know that because there are long-term leases for 49 years and people go for them because they have to go for it. They're being chased into the cabal because they want to get rent every year, not year after year, but maybe five years in advance. So in my opinion, we would have to focus on strengthening lease contracts to give people the opportunity to actually have an alternative. We don't give such an alternative, and every year we continue the moratorium. Is it possible to open the land market since January 1st, 18th, or soon? I don't think so. Because we have a lot of issues that land legislation has not solved. This is also a question of land consolidation. We have a chess set in each field, and a large number of singles are constantly coming out. How can we open up the market with this situation, it's just not going to be a market, it's chaos. We have a problem with the land of collective property, which is one and a half million hectares. So this is the question that needs to be addressed, and then we need to talk about a civilized land market. Bill 7350 supported the committee. It's supported by our faction. We propose to continue the moratorium for a year and thus motivate both the government, and we, colleagues, let's work on changing land legislation, and then on a substantive basis, when we do so, talk about the discovery of a fully civilized market for land. Thank you. Please support 7350.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u100	Thank you. Colleagues, now from the People's Front, Head, one minute. Then Fedoruk, one minute. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. Please, Head, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u101	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, what you're talking about, what a market for land! Today, 60 percent of Ukrainians are out of poverty; they do not have the means to buy medicine and to buy bread. Who will buy this land? Except for oligarchs and transnational corporations that can bring in a lot of money, money, and money to buy this land. Remember once and for all: The earth is not a commodity, it is a nation's living space. This is not a factory that can be rebuilt and made new or tree planted; the earth will no longer be planted. And that's why the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is the only faction that has registered the Law on the Prohibition of the Sale of Land. If a person does not want to process it, the State must buy it from the State Bank. We're only applying for a long-term lease with the right to an inheritance, and it's only in these circumstances that we can create farms, a small farm movement that can finance and borrow. Earth is the strategic capital of the nation, which is to be our children's legacy, we can't waste it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u102	Thank you. Colleagues, now two minutes from Front, a minute from Fedoruk, a minute from Timoshenko Yuri, and we're going to vote. If you'll excuse me, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, the People's Front will support the agrarian committee's decision and vote in favour. But I would like to take this opportunity to bring you back to the beginning of our work today and welcome you from this rostrum the head of the Association of Cities of Ukraine Vitalia Klicka with the Day of Local Self-Government and thank him for having successfully failed the Act of Joining the Cities of Districts and to say, to his fellow city heads, "Think Who Are You electing as Head of the Association of Cities." Thank you for your attention. With a holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u104	Yuri Timoshenko, one minute. And we vote, colleagues. Not everyone's in the room. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u105	Political prostitutes in this room, that you still haven't sold in this country with your selling souls? I want my children and grandchildren born on a free land, not slaves who will walk on narrow sidewalks between high fences on which to write: "Don't touch, private property!".. Divide the land of Ukraine among the united territorial communities into their collective property without the right to sell, and let these OTGs do what they want to do with this land, they want to process themselves, they want to rent for 50 years. Shame on the traitors!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u106	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I'll be the first to vote on the committee's proposal. I remind you that the profile committee has proposed draft Law 7350 as a whole. And I'll be the first to make a proposal to the committee, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Land Code on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land (No. 7350) by decision of the Committee as a basis and as a whole. I remind you, the committee has actually defined this bill, and he suggested that we actually vote for this bill as a whole. That's why I'm putting the committee's decision to a vote. Please vote, please identify yourself, colleagues. We're voting 7,350 on the basis as a whole. Vote. [[17:34:41]] For 236 236 – a.k.a. The law is passed. We move on to the next, colleague, law, as we agreed, this will be the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for National Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services (7342-1). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, and please support. Vote, colleagues, summary procedure. Please. [[17:35:23]] For-183 183-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic complex. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u107	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, a venerable presidency. I would like to remind everyone that last year this composition of the Ukrainian Parliament in very difficult professional discussions was passed by the Independent Regulator Act, which meets the requirements of the Third Energy Package and the Association Agreement with the European Union countries. And one of the key tools of this bill was the election of the Nomination Commission, which needed to create the necessary tool for the selection of the independent members of the NCRECR. I would also like to remind you that, unfortunately, this Supreme Council was unable to vote in favour of its nomination commission early in April this year, and unfortunately in May this Supreme Council was unable to vote in favour of its membership in the Nomination Commission. And only in October did we vote in favour of our two representatives, after which the government presented its representative and the President appointed two of his representatives. The Nomination Commission is currently working, held two meetings, but there has been such a legislative coalition that only two members of the NCREKP have remained full since 26 November. The work of an independent regulator during the heating season, during a period of need to make very important decisions that have to do with nuclear energy, coal, electricity, and many other energy security issues, and I stress that the balance of Ukraine’s energy system has remained blocked. This, unfortunately, is the reason that the system, if you don't make an urgent choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u108	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u109	Therefore, a bill is being tabled to give the President of Ukraine the right to appoint temporarily, once every three months, members of the NCRECR until the Nomination Commission selects the necessary candidates and, in accordance with the law we have adopted with you, introduces them to the President. Please support, because the situation is extremely critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u110	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. The Radical faction is Chizmar. Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u111	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. I think we all know that the NCREPR has been blocked today, there is no quorum, there are four people who have been authorized for a period of time, and one has been treated for a very long time and is in the hospital, which is why the NCREKP doesn't work. And this problem is being brought to the walls of our Parliament today, and Parliament has to find a way to solve the problem of the quorum of the NCRECR during the winter period. Although I have a simple question on the other hand, we know about the artificiality of the situation with the NCRECR, we know that this is a struggle of clans in the energy field today, an impact on this situation. And that's why it's supposed to take the initiative of the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, because it's a paralysis of the public authority, it's a system of market demoralization, and so they're not doing their job to protect public interests. And Parliament today has to adopt a law that doesn't, in principle, make sense, because we're handing over the mandate to the members of the NCRECR, let's even temporarily, for three months, to the President, that is, we're handing everything over to the President again. And these three months, which are temporary, we know that there's nothing more permanent than temporary, three months, three months, three and three. The nomination boards that were created today, they don't perform their functions, just remember the D.B.I., the whole year the commission couldn't get together, as a result we're going to have a new law on the extension of the Attorney General's office for two years, because we didn't create the D.B.I., the same thing will be done under the N.C.R.C. The nominee commission doesn't work properly. So in this law, clearly, it doesn't make sense of the logical law that we passed on the rotation of the members of the NCREKP. But we realize and understand that if today the NCREKP, as a minimum, will not work for four months until the Nomination Commission, if it is still able to hold a proper competition, because we have seen more than one Nomination Commission. So we're going to get into a situation where in the winter we can't agree on tariffs, we can't pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u112	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u113	To pay their energy costs to the energy industry, and in that case, they will be paid off on wages to electricity producers and other fuel sources. We're going to have incomprehensible tariffs and that's how the country is going to get hurt. So this is a necessary step, but we agreed on a committee of heads. with the chairman of the committee, that after that, we will sit down and work out a system of protection against similar manipulations with our regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u114	Please, this is Deputy Shinkovic Dombrowski speaking from the Peter Prashenko Block. You'll be out of town? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I would also like to support the last thesis that National Deputy Chizmar has just said that someone might like it, and someone might not like it, it might be publicly accepted. But we must choose today between that bill that is presented in Parliament and the very difficult possibility of an energy crisis in the country. I want to say that this bill was previously registered, completely identical, by another group of members of the committee. It was taken down by them, the only difference between this bill and the one that was withdrawn, is that the previous bill proposed to the President that he be appointed for six months, and we believe that it would be enough three months to enable the nomination commission to work effectively and to comply with the law, and to select independent members, professional NCREs, who would meet all the key criteria: professionalism, objectivity and independence. So once again, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u116	Thank you. From Self-Help, National Deputy High, please. Ticklehead, I'm sorry, it's a little late tonight, sometimes you're confused. Mr. Leve, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u117	Honourable deputies and Ukrainian people. Indeed, the situation with the NCRECR and the absence of a quorum is critical. As all markets are completely in hand and are regulated only by the NCRECR, no decision can be taken in today’s situation where there is no quorum. But I would like to say something else, why did this happen, and who is responsible? You know that all members of the NCREKP have been appointed by the President of Ukraine to this day. The President of Ukraine also signed the NCREKP Act, which lasted two months, and we waited several months for the President's decree to begin the rotation, and we waited several months for him to appoint members of the Nomination Commission. He was the last to appoint members, delegate to a competitive commission, and this was done when there was no quorum. We know that we have, indeed, voted twice for members of the nominee commission in the Supreme Council, but on two occasions we have submitted the same impenetrable candidates to the coalition, and this has also been a deliberate delay, and this has all led to complete absurdity and total disaster in the energy markets. At the same time, we understand that, in fact, the President of Ukraine must bear all political responsibility for all the inaction of all the criminal decisions taken by the NCHR. It's a terrible formula called Rotterdam Plus, and it's terrible wiring tariffs, and it's terrible other things that go around the state in billions of dollars. Therefore, giving him further authority to appoint members is very dangerous, and it may be unless it is his great political responsibility, and it is difficult for me to judge with it. So it's his responsibility for everything that's going on and everything that's going to continue to work in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u118	Give me 15 seconds to finish Mr. Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u119	In the case of the adoption of a bill that actually solves the situation in the energy markets, it will solve it, but it will be the President’s full responsibility for everything that has happened and for everything that has gone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u120	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Alexy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u121	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The President of Ukraine introduced the situation of energy in tsugzwang: all the proposed policy decisions, they only make things worse, because they create very dangerous precedents, which have been going on for some year now, when regulators are in manual mode, when the decrees do not continue and the DBR cannot be created. And the permanence of the situation adds the fact that the NCREKP is a de facto non-constitutional body, because it is not prescribed in the Constitution, and the powers conferred on the President by this bill are also not laid down in the Constitution, which was filed a year ago by Fatherschina and Julia Timoshenko. I know that the President of Ukraine has been asked to become a leader in energy reform and to create a truly independent regulator for the best European models. Unfortunately, he's taking other advice, and now he's trying to take this kind of corrupt gasheft out of the energy plant to take down 10 to 12 billion in the pre-election campaign. So just think about it, people: this situation was designed to block the regulator's work and take out this corrupt money. I mean, every person who pays now is going to pay for gas, electricity, and he's going to pay for President Poshenko's election fund now. And it's worse than that. And it's annoying, you know, to understand that nobody in this situation is going to be punished, that we are now suffering damage, that we are now having image losses, because investors who believe in Ukraine are investors from Canada, from Sweden, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which have built a biogas plant in Volnovas -- 20 kilometers from the front line -- and now they can't return their own investments. Whatever laws we passed about Doing Business, these things, when in manual mode because of the oligaric conspiracies, the more important energy regulator is blocked, they won't improve the operation. So Fatherland won't take part in this thing, and the President has to be personally responsible for the blocked regulator.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u122	Among those factions. Yes, please, two minutes Mrs. Katzer-Buchovsky from the People's Front, please. Please, you already have a microphone running.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u123	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I want to say that the collapse of the work of the NCREKP is an enormous blow to the investment image of Ukraine, because many investors who have invested their investments in green energy at the moment cannot realize their rights, as well as sign contracts for purchasing, selling electricity. And this terrible scandal has gone far beyond Ukraine. The second thing I want to say is, a year ago, we passed the NCRECR. And this law provides for a legal way, a competitive way of assigning commission members. At the moment, we have a competition commission that has nothing to do with holding this competition and appointing members of the commission. Why are we now inventing, inventing new ways, passing on responsibility? It is necessary for the commission to meet every day until it is selected in a legitimate competitive manner. elected members of the commission, the commission shall not work according to the law. Why would we slander that bill, the law we passed a year ago, that meets all the rules of European law? For what, who, and why, did the energy situation lead to such a situation? That's why I don't personally support this bill. I believe that the commission should appoint, in a legitimate manner, members of the NCREKP, who will exercise their powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u124	Colleagues, all desirous of factions and groups, spoke. Two minutes, we would like to give a summary word to the national MP, Dombrowski, who will explain his position on the bill once again and may also answer the questions or comments that have been made during the discussion of the bill. Colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes, and I ask you to return to the session room of all the colleagues from the buffet, from the towers, from the corridors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I'd like outside of political emotion, perhaps, and whose political ambitions to say a few very key things. Today, only two of the seven members of the NCRE remain legitimate. They cannot work and make decisions. The regulator's work is blocked. Thesis two. Those who stood on this rostrum and actively criticized the bill were the authors of the bill, which was then removed. And I think it's a professionally unfair position in terms of Ukrainian energy and Ukrainian energy. And third, that's the main thing. You can judge different branches of authority, but I want to remind you all that in order for the nomination commission to start working, you had to formulate at least four representatives. And without the Supreme Council, without two representatives that we didn't vote with you in April, in May, and we voted only in October, neither the President nor the Ukrainian government could. That's why we need to be honest: it's our collective problem and we collectively need to find solutions so that Ukrainian energy doesn't collapse, and that people stay with electricity, heat and light during the winter. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u126	Thank you. Colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement from Fatherland, and then we'll move on to making a decision. And so I'm very much asking all the national MPs to come into the hall, and I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Oh, there's been a performance, hasn't there? So we're moving on. No, no, I'm sorry, I didn't know. All right, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take a seat and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, I ask you to keep your jobs as low as possible so that we don't come back after the vote. Everyone understands and knows the importance of the issue and how negative voting can be for Ukrainian energy. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and to take up jobs. I want to ask if everyone is in place, can we vote? Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm just seeing that there aren't any, not even some of the factions' heads. I see they're coming in. I'll wait. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian National Commission on National Energy and Public Services Act to empower the President of Ukraine to ensure the continued activity of the National Commission in the field of energy and utilities (No. 7342-1). The committee's proposal is to support the bill as a whole. And I'm asking you to support the position of the committee. I ask you to support the position of the committee and please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:54:42]] For 233 The law is passed. The next thing we have is a bill that we voted on in the morning to put it on the table, it's a draft of the Law "Buy Ukrainian." (to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of industrial production and small and medium-sized enterprises). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:55:22]] For-157. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the national deputy Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u127	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. This is one of the most important economic bills of the year: "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians." Why is our country in critical need today? The annual volume of government purchases is 275 billion dollars. These are taxpayers' costs, 12 percent of the Ukrainian economy, Ukrainian GDP. Experts estimate that 38 percent of purchases take place either in imports or in products with very large parts of the imported ingredient. By comparison, in other countries, less than 5 percent of US and Japan’s imports are imported, less than 8 percent in the European Union, and 38 percent in the European Union, think about it. By buying abroad what Ukraine produces itself, or can produce itself, we donate to other countries: jobs, taxes, prosperity and prospects, and we leave only the loans of the International Monetary Fund, foreign requirements, poverty and dependence on other countries. It's unacceptable. To remedy our situation with Oleg Lášk and more than thirty national deputies from all factions, groups of parliament without exception, and we are very grateful to all of our coauthors for taking this initiative, which introduces mandatory consideration of the local ingredient in government procurement of specialized goods. This will allow public procurement to take place in the service of the Ukrainian people, in the development of the Ukrainian industry. This bill is in line with Ukraine’s international obligations and according to the World Trade Organization, and the Association Agreement is therefore subject to the exceptions provided for in these documents. And it also fits better world experience, because since 1933, the United States has been implementing the Buy American Act, which provides for restrictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u128	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u129	Which predicts that in the U.S. government, you can only sell the product if the percentage of localization is more than 50 percent. Moreover, the price is 12 percent for an American small business producer. We propose 25 percent in Ukraine to make a price advantage for the Ukrainian producer. Try selling goods that have a localization of less than 50 percent to Europe if you do not have a factory in Europe. Experts estimate that Buy Ukrainian will add a plus percent increase to GDP. So imagine, this is 1.7 prognosis today. It's going to be plus one percent. Nearly 5 percent reduction in imports and a half percent reduction in unemployment in the country. This is a real jet engine of the Ukrainian economy, as Oleg Lazko rightly calls it. Examples of applying the same practice are countless. We need to modernize the ProZorro system today to put state purchases in the service of the economy and the economy into the service of every Ukrainian citizen. Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u130	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u131	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 15 November reviewed the bill and decided accordingly. I don't think there's anyone in this room who wouldn't want public finances, government funds to work for the development of the Ukrainian economy that would create these public funds to create jobs, to add value and to fill Ukraine's state budget. The committee decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. But it should be noted that the MPs have drawn attention to the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the expert environment and, in general, the experts who have worked with us, the members of the committee and the Parliament to draft the Public Procurement Act. So before the second reading, we talked to the authors of the bill, both with experts, and with the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. We need to work on it to ensure that the mechanisms that are being proposed and the purpose that we want to achieve in this bill are properly spelled out and that this does not entail distortions of competition and distortion of opportunity. And the main thing is that this bill at the end, in the second reading, we, if we make it to give preference to domestic producers, but it didn't raise prices in tenders and in public purchases, in public finances. Thank you very much. Please support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u132	Thank you. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From the Radical Party of Amelchenko, he gives the floor to Oleg Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u133	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The bill proposed by our team "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians!" It can become a reactive engine for the development of our economy. Workplaces for Ukrainians, salary increases for Ukrainians, pensions for Ukrainians, wages, taxes, social development – this is the goal of the Radical Party. Who is speaking against our bill? Those who are accustomed to trading in Ukraine’s national interests around the world. They led the country to begging. People don't see prospects in their home country, they go abroad to make money. There are representatives of transnational corporations left, who have taken power, who have no family, no tribe, and they want the Ukrainians to buy. Imported coal, imported bread, imported metal, imported shoes, imported clothing, imported nails, underpants, and socks Go to our stores, see what's being sold. There's an import technique in the fields. Import chemistry, import materials are all imported. I'm asking you where to make money to Ukrainians. How can they feed their family? Where can they find decent work and wages? Only when the taxes paid by the Ukrainians will they work for their country, not abroad. Only when our money works for its economy, not to feed and enrich competitors from foreign countries. If we don't want to get married, if we want to be decent people, if we want our country to be respected rather than married, buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u134	Thank you. Roman Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u135	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Ukrainians, I want to explain to you what's going on today. Every year, when the budget of Ukraine is reviewed, there are strange laws in this room that I can boldly call "Christmass." And this law is, unfortunately, not an exception. Moreover, this law has nothing to do with the protection of Ukrainian business. Our Parliament has made with you perhaps one of the few real reforms -- the reform of public procurement through ProZorro electronics. And the purpose of this bill is to destroy this system. What does this bill really offer us? With amendments to paragraph 18 of article 1 of the Public Procurement Act, the law stipulates that Kabmin will now be able to create a list of goods, jobs or services that will be the sole source of the price and adjust such a list to the government's own discretion. The second myth that just came out of this rostrum today is that there's a lot of imported goods in government purchases. Today, 1 percent are just foreign companies, and in the import structure, foreign goods are only 27 percent, but the left share is energy. So that doesn't fit the reality. Next. We're told that this will help protect the Ukrainian business and contribute to the Ukrainian economy. But co-authors propose to increase the amount of help needed to participate in tender procedures to 23. What's more, they're offering a price of 25 to 43 percent higher than any other good offer. I have a question: why don't you keep your mouth shut about what billions of dollars tax payers are going to need your initiative? And the last. I am deeply convinced that this law has nothing to do with Ukrainian, it is the Trojan horse of public government procurement of Ukraine and individual Christmas carols of individual Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u136	From the People's Front, Medunica Oleg, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u137	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. You know, my whole childhood went to factories. In Sumi, in Soviet times, there was the Allied Centre for Machinebuilding, Heavy Machinebuilding, Compressor Machinebuilding. Now these factories that are in Suma are loaded up to 20 percent. Thank God, they're not scattered, these businesses are standing, but the pressure on them is very weak with the same product of imported origin, and the different offshore linings are bringing to Ukraine to the right and to the left. The state-owned Suhimprom company, which is the only producer of complex fertilizers in Ukraine, is 20 percent of its capacity. Can't we give work to our machine builders, our chemists in our heavy industry? That's why we need to adopt this law, no matter what the consequences. And I'm convinced that our businesses can give our domestic market quality products at a cheaper cost of imports analogues. So I'm in favour of adopting this law, and I think that under social control, we can make it so that there's no contradiction to the ProZorro system. But the adoption of this law is a real increase in jobs, an increase in wages in the heavy industry in Ukraine, and an increase in government and local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u138	Thank you. And from "The Will of the People," Martinjak Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u139	Dear Chairman, please pass the word to Anatoly Musiovich Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that Ukraine is now taking its last place in Europe, with GDP per capita of $2.5,000. Such a low point in Ukraine's economy has never been passed in its history. We need at least 5 to 7 years to increase at least 7 percent in order to exit the risk zone. How do you do that? In due course, we have made unprecedented openings to the internal market without considering any mechanisms of protection. The whole world protects its markets through localization mechanisms, the preferences of domestic producers, using the internal market as a tramway for the development of its economy. Unfortunately, we've made a lot of mistakes on this road. Today, there are directives of the European Union to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with European legislation. And we have the opportunity with you to protect the domestic producer and the domestic market so that it can generate and create new jobs, adapt and enter new markets. This has been the case for all countries: America, Germany, South Korea, China, Japan, by developing their producers in the internal market and giving them a chance to compete in external markets. Today, we are borrowing billions of credits to pay for the goods of popular consumption. Tell me, who won from buying foreign trams and trolleybuses for two kegs cheaper in ProZorro than the Lviv factory does? Who won this, the Polish Pesa Company? What are we talking about today? This should become a public priority and should be respected again in Ukraine. Another way is to become a rich country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u141	Colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement from Husak's Opposition Block, and then there's going to be a vote. I'm begging you. I'll give you a line, I'll give you a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, while we're here in Parliament. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u143	Please. And Bodnar, right? Well, then there'll be a few performances. Ivan Kirilenko. That's right. My colleagues, I'm sorry, there'll be a few more speeches. The factions are still insisting on the performance: "The Opposition Block", "Resurrection." No, "Rebirth" has already taken place. And "Paternity" and "BPT." Yes, colleagues, yes. How about a minute? Say it. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone, could it be a minute? Give me a minute. So, Gusac, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! While law enforcement officials in parliament are watering each other with dirt, production continues to decline in Ukraine. During the 10 months of this year, production, compared to the 10 months of the previous year, has fallen, and without increasing production, we will not be able to actually raise wages and pensions and raise the standard of living of our people. And because Parliament is currently considering the bill "Paying to Ukrainians, Buy Ukrainian" is good news. This bill can be improved, in particular, the procedure for defining the local ingredient is too complex, but this can be done in the second reading, and now the bill needs to be supported in the first reading to increase industry, increase production and improve Ukrainian lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u145	Thank you. From Fatherland, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u146	Respectable Society! Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. The first months of our independence, I want to remind you of history, Ukraine started in the 20th most developed countries in the world, according to human life indices and industrial potential and production -- it's true. Ukraine is now in its twenties, only in the second hundredth. In its time, Brazil experienced such a fate, speaking on a national scale, and 20 years ago, it was dead in ruins. One law and one program are passed, the law on importation is applied, and an import scheme is applied. It has been 10 years, Brazil in the six most developed countries in the world, Brazil has gone into space, and we are flying Brazilian fliers. The space country, the country that makes the planes, is standing in the hangars of our NI. As long as it is. Friends?Oh, my God! It may not be a perfect law, but the idea is absolutely right. Friends, 7 times Ukraine has increased its import dependency in independence years, 7 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u147	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u148	Agricultural machinery consumed 8 million tons of metal, now 400,000. Friends, and what we're not capable of, agrarian country, of making our own agricultural machines and so on and so forth. We're voting for it. And then there's the substitution import program.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u149	Victor Bondar from Rebirth Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u150	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Our Rebirth Party has stood up for Ukrainian producers for several years, and we keep asking all governments about the need for a state support programme for Ukrainian manufacturing, for Ukrainian industrial enterprises. A country that is one of the most successful and successful and was, and is, and will be in the field of space, aviation, engineering, chemistry, metallurgy and so on, pastures the rear. We are constantly moving on to the fact that more and more imports are entering Ukraine's foreign goods. At the request of the IMF, other creditors, we lose our production, we make ProZorro and other systems that are now competitively dominated by foreign producers and come here with their goods. So we will certainly support this bill and we will vote to buy Ukrainian and support domestic manufacturers and domestic manufacturing enterprises. What's more, we're demanding a cost-of-credit program for industrial manufacturing to buy new equipment and get out first in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u151	Colleagues, I mean, all the factions have already come forward except for the Peter Dusty Block. I can't give, colleagues, people's deputies, because we have a very limited time, and we still have a very important bill. And that's why I'm giving Dombrovsky's Peter Prashenko Block one minute, and then we're going to make a decision. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u152	11th Winnitzkina constituency Alexander Dombrovski Dear colleagues, I can share with you the successful formula of a successful country is at least politics. Unfortunately, in Ukraine there are too many and too many economies. I can share with you the formula of a successful economy, that's when you import at least, at most, an expert potential. And when the internal market develops as much as possible, consumption for Ukrainian citizens. What do we want with this law? We want to give normal breathing to all Ukrainian businesses. Do we want to create special preferences? No, we want to put Ukrainian producers in the same conditions as those who import technology, equipment and competitive products. Why? Because on this side and on that side there are cheap loans, there are funds, there are grants, for the Ukrainian manufacturer, today, there is virtually nothing. And when colossal government resources work for other countries, they work for other corporations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u153	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u154	For other states, it's not right. We have to protect our manufacturer, we have to create a normal investment climate for the Ukrainian industry and raise the internal market for consumption. It's not an ideal law, but between the first and the second readings, we have to work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u155	Please, one minute, Ednak. And I'm asking you to come into the hall, colleagues, please, I see that not everyone is in the hall, I'll give you one more minute to get together. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u156	Dear colleagues! For Ukrainian businesses and exporters to have cheap loans, we had the opportunity this week, particularly to ratify the agreement between Ukraine and the World Bank for $150 million. And you know what factions in this House didn't support this decision. In order for Ukrainians to buy Ukrainian budget, we have the most beautiful, best system in the world, ProZorro, public procurement. Where we make effective use of taxpayers' costs. What does this law offer? This law legalizes corruption, it destroys a transparent system of public procurement. I'm asking you not to support this law, it's going to hurt our exporters, because in the European Union in other parts of the world, there's going to be mirror sanctions because we do protectionism. Please do not uphold this harmful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u157	Thank you. And, the lineup, Oleg Lazko was mentioned at the beginning of the discussion. And in a minute, we're voting. One minute, we're going to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u158	I'm talking to those who don't want to buy Ukrainian and pay Ukrainians. You tell us that if we adopt this law, there will be sanctions against us, there will be observations against us and so on. By whom? By whom?Oh, my God! You're thinking about foreigners, and I'm thinking about Ukrainians. I think about Ukrainian interests, I think about Ukrainian boys and girls having jobs in their country. You're talking about the most transparent systems we have, as a result of your most transparent system, the lions lost a contract of 2 billion dollars for trams, took away a Polish firm. The difference that led to the loss of the lions was a thousand bracelets. And you, Self-Help, the representatives of Lviv, are against the lions having a job and a salary. Semenha of Kharkiv, you object to the fact that Harkowi tractors sell and drive throughout the country. You want imports, and I want quality and Ukrainian products, and jobs for Ukrainians, not foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u159	Thank you. Colleagues, I just want to warn you. I'll give you a line. I'll give you a line, but we're getting too long in every bill, colleagues. Please, a line. Who? Semenha, one minute. And my colleagues, I'm asking you less emotionally, we have an incredibly complex agenda. Please, the line is short.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u160	Self-help against populism and lies and the corruption laid down in this bill. Yes, today’s Act on State Procurement is indeed not ideal and may require further work. But do not cover up today’s corruption, the crime you committed in this session hall with high - quality names.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u161	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" (to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts to promote industrial development and small and medium-sized enterprises) (number 7206) as a basis. Colleagues, just on the ground. Please vote on the basis. Vote. [[18:20:21]] For 221 I'll put it back, I'll put it back, colleagues, like I put all the bills. Please take up your jobs. Please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. The discussion is over, we are now making a decision. And I'm making an offer. I see some deputies haven't made it. I'm proposing to go back to Bill 736. Please vote, please support return to 7206. Please vote. Vote! Please be supportive. [[18:21:06]] For 233 We're back, 233. And I'm just putting it on the base of 7206. Please vote on the basis. Vote, fellows! Please vote. [[18:21:27]] For 241 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you now. Attention, colleagues! We've got it. The Tax Code is about to end. We have a bill that follows the Tax Code – this is 7280 – "The Final Position" of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Planebuilding Industry. And there is a request that we move it and consider it now, colleagues. That bill, you know, everybody's in it. I'm asking you now to support the proposal to move it now -- to the development of the aviation industry. Colleagues, I ask you all to vote and please support the transfer of 7280 to review now as the Tax Code is being prepared. Please vote and please support 7280. Vote, fellows! I ask everyone to take part in the vote carefully. Vote! Please back up! Vote. [[18:22:41]] For 216 Not all of them made it. I'll do it again, colleagues. I was approached by representatives of three factions about the bill. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. I'm proposing to move the law, which is in two, now to be considered. And I'm re-voting the proposal to move 7280 to the table now, and I'm asking you to support this proposal, colleagues. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please. Vote, please. [[18:23:29]] For 236 We've moved on. And I'm voting on the proposal to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please. [[18:23:52]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Korchik Vitali Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u162	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act "The Final Position" of Ukraine "On Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine "On the Development of Aircraft Construction Industry" concerning the granting of a transitional period by Ukrainian airlines to switch from foreign-producer aircraft to domestic-producer aircraft (Registration No. 7280). The purpose of the bill is to enable the gradual transition of Ukrainian airlines from foreign aircraft to domestic aircraft, which will have a positive impact on the country’s economic development. On December 20, 2016, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry on support for the aviation sector (number 1796-8), according to section I, paragraph 1, of which, as of January 1, 2018, tax benefits on the payment of customs payments on temporary importation into the customs territory of Ukraine are cancelled under operating leasing contracts, foreign aircraft. In this regard, Ukrainian airlines, unlike foreign airlines, are not subject to this restriction. From January 1, 2018, the import of Embraer E-145, 170, 190, ATR 24, 74 and Bombardier Q400 into Ukraine under operating-leasing contracts will have to pay the duty rate and the added cost tax of 20 per cent of the cost of an aircraft. The bill proposes to amend Chapter II of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Construction to allow the transition period for Ukrainian airlines to move from foreign-produced aircraft to domestic-produced aircraft until 1 January.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u163	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u164	to continue until 1 January 2021 instead of 1 January 2018 the operation of Section 1 of Section I of Act No 1796-8 under which air vessels imported into the customs territory of Ukraine are included in the customs regime of temporary importation under conditions of full exemption from customs duties. On the basis of the foregoing, given the importance of the bill, I propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u165	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Dear colleagues, Jacenko is passing it on to Bondar. Please. And, colleagues, there are only two speeches. Don't leave the hall, there'll be only two speeches. And then the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u166	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Our rebirth party is already sequentially, I reiterate, it supports domestic producers, especially industrial manufacturers. As long as I was Minister of Transportation and Liaison of Ukraine, I was gathering all the airlines in Ukraine, collecting most of the foreign airlines that worked at the Ukrainian airline, and driving the national airline companies in Ukraine for the purpose of promoting our planes and involving them in the acquisition of our planes. Now, of course, the question today is that the Ukrainian aviation industry needs to get on its feet, issue powerful competitors to the world airlines and give Ukrainian aircraft the highest quality. That's why we support this bill to allow our airlines for this transition period to have the opportunity to purchase quality modern aviation technology, and at the same time to enable our aviation industry to stand on its feet and provide Ukrainians and foreign airlines with the best, most modern aircraft that will be competitive in the world. So we ask and support this bill and we call on the members of the Supreme Council to support Ukrainian airline manufacturers and enable Ukrainian airlines and foreign airlines to use Ukrainian aircraft. Thank you. And I'm asking you to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u167	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u168	Dear colleagues! December 7 is the International Civil Aviation Day. I welcome all the airmen to their professional day, and I believe that today we should give a gift to both aviation and numerous domestic passengers. Because it's a shame that a year ago, changes to the budget that predicted that lysing payments for the purchase or lysing of foreign-produced aircraft would be taxed on VAT, that would increase the cost of our passengers for domestic flights by 20 percent. So in order to protect our passengers so that this difficult time doesn't increase the price of tickets, I'm sure we should vote in favour of this bill, I'm sure, on the basis and in general, because there are three years of moratoriums on the introduction of VAT in order that, according to the letter of Antonov, they can finally fix the issue of domestic aircraft. And then all the companies will have to take our planes to lysing. I am confident that the entire room should unite in the protection of the rights of passengers. And secondly, we are all together, by adopting such bills as "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians," we have to rebuild our aircraft. And I'm sure three years is enough. So I ask you all to support this bill so that all of us, all of us Ukrainians, can use internal flights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a large number of deputies have left the hall. I very much ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies to return to the Hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Wait a minute, Lechchenko. Colleagues, please, we'll have a decision in a minute. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u170	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. What are you talking about? You're talking about supporting the Ukrainian industry ten minutes ago, and now you're destroying the Ukrainian industry. The Antonov factory is across the street from the border of my 223 constituency. Now, over the last few weeks, my voters have been writing and calling me saying that Anton's employees are getting laid off, they're letting go for half a day, they're making me write vacation applications at my own expense. At the same time, you tell us that he is not handling the orders, so you want to drive abroad. What is this, what is this blasphemy? This bill is yours to continue to destroy the Ukrainian aviation sector, one of the few sectors that is still working in Ukraine and can still lift us up, our economy. What are you doing, what are you doing? For so-called Ukrainian airlines, which aren't really Ukrainian, who actually pick up three tickets? It's blasphemy. Don't vote for this terrible bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u171	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Turn on the microphone. Colleagues, two minutes to vote. I ask everyone to return to the hall. I know it's hard to work all the time. And that's why I announce it in advance when I vote. Please return everyone to the hall and turn on the microphone. Is it from the rostrum, Nina Petrovna? It's a Southern. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u172	Dear colleagues, your Honourable Chairman, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has considered it. On 6 December 2017, a bill was considered at its meeting on tax and customs policy. Given that we've discussed this bill a lot last time, we were quick to make decisions in this case. And as a result of the consideration of the bill, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final Position of Ukraine on the Amendment to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Law on the Development of Aircraft Construction Industry, on the granting of a transitional period by Ukrainian airlines to switch from foreign aircraft to domestic aircraft, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Burbak and Korčik as a basis and as a whole, taking into account GNEU's comments. That is, by naming the Ukrainian Law of 20.12.2016, No. 1796-8, which is amended by the Bill of Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry, which was adopted in 20.12.2016, on the promotion of the aviation sector. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u173	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Replica, Ivanchuk of Front. Please, one minute. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u174	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'd just like to say in defense of the authors. Can not get message: %s %s We have a national airline in Ukraine. He's holding back competition. Imagine if he's gone. We're all smart people. Tomorrow, the foreign companies that will do it? They're going to raise prices for tickets. The withdrawal of VAT will allow for the cost of transportation for Ukrainians. And now you're transferring everything to some kind of personality! If we translate into individuals, we will never build Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u175	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Planebuilding Industry (No. 7280). And I put to the vote the committee's proposal on the basis and in general, and with the amendments that the head of the committee, Eugene Nina Petrovn, has announced in his speech. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[18:36:05]] For 211 Fellows, don't shout, I'm putting all the bills back on the table, and I'm putting this one on the way back. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. Not all the deputies have returned yet. I see there's not even the heads of some factions. Colleagues, please go back to work. I urge you to return to your workplace. And now I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm proposing to go back to Bill 7280. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Each voice has a weight. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:37:15]] For 227 We're back, colleagues. Now I'm voting again. Stay where you are, colleagues. I ask, on the contrary, to enter the hall and take up jobs. I'm putting 7,280 on the ground as a whole, as amended by the transcript of Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice. Please vote carefully. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[6:37:53]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, we've got a day-to-day draft of Decree 7172. And I'm asking you to vote in favour of having her reconsidered. Please vote 7,172. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[18:38:29]] For 199 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u176	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the decision of the Committee on Rules of Procedure of October 4, 17th, your proposal is for a draft regulation on financial security for the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputies, which proposes the establishment of national deputies' salaries at the level of official salaries of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on the size of the subsistence minimum set for working persons for January 1st calendar year, as well as a fund to pay for the work of assistant consultants of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, based on the size of the said social security. In accordance with article 33 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the National Deputy is established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine every month. The allowances for such salaries are based on the size of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The national deputy on material, social and economic security is likened to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, the stated requirements of the People's Deputy Status Act are not being met. The project is proposed to address the issue of financial security for the activities of the deputies, to compare them with those of the Cabinet. For example, the minister’s official salary is now 16,000 dollars. In accordance with the draft decree, the same size of the office salary is proposed for the establishment of a national deputy, a member of the committee. No additional funding is needed for the implementation of the project's provisions from the State budget, as sufficient budgetary allocations are provided for under the State Budget Act 2017, as well as the funds planned in 2018 for the financing of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u177	Thank you, colleagues. Are you ready to support me?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u178	I'm voting on draft regulation 7172, and I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come back from the towers. Both the Supreme Council Secretariat and the factions' heads, please invite deputies to the Hall and prepare for the decision. And I, my colleagues, am putting to the vote the draft regulation 7172, which was reported by the deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Phinenic Pavlovicz, and I ask that you support the committee's conclusion on supporting this decision. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[18:41:35]] For 219 Not all made it, I see. We'll be right back. But you go into the hall, colleagues. I'm not coming back 10 times. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats during the vote, please be in the hall, not on the clock. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to borrow jobs because you're coming to see me, you're convincing me, you're acquitting me, and then you're just not in the hall, you know? So please, now I'm going to make an offer to return to draft regulation 7172. Please vote, please support. Please vote for the return. Oh, you don't have to! Yes, yes! You don't have to go back. Yes. It's a determination, it doesn't need a return. That's why I'm betting again. Please support the draft regulation 7172 please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:42:52]] For 245 245. Colleagues, pay attention! We're back, we're back. Yes, I've made it clear to the lawyers. Attention! On site. Now I'm betting. Please support the 7172 Rule Project. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[18:43:22]] For 235 235. It's been decided. Colleagues, now I'm asking for your attention! We have a very important decision that is important for Crimean Tatar television and its functioning. It is. We included him in the morning so that we could receive him today. This is a draft law amending section VI, paragraph 16, of the Budget Code of Ukraine (7345). Yes, Mr. Chubarov, is she 7345? Colleagues, I ask all of you to discuss and support this determination. I am voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 7345 as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. [[18:44:20]] For a hundred and 192nd. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u179	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Bill 7345 is prepared for settlement and support, financial support for a television company operating in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and providing information services. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to section VI, paragraph 16, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, it was established in 2016 as an exception to article 87, section 11, of this Code, that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine could determine the direction of use of the budget and the programmes of support for television companies operating in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol and provide information services. Taking into account this situation in 2016, 300 were used by the State Budget for this purpose. 38 million 859 thousand dollars. Accordingly, the draft law proposes to continue the practice of providing financial support to broadcasters operating in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and providing information services, excluding the word and figure “in 2016” in section VI, paragraph 16, of the Budget Code. The continued provision of financial support to broadcasters operating in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol and providing information services, according to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, will be carried out at the expense and within the budgeted budget programme of KPCC 2501120, "The settlement and deployment of deported Crimean Tatars to persons of other nationalities", which have been deported from Ukraine." That is, if the bill is adopted, it will not require additional funding from the State Budget. Thus, with the adoption of the draft law, they are normalized. 30 seconds, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u180	Give me a minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u181	With the adoption of the draft law, the issue of spending the state budget on the financial support of nonstate broadcasters operating in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol provides information services. Dear colleagues, I ask the Hall to unite, all factions and groups, to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u182	Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to my co-report to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Constantine Ischeikin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u183	Madam Chairman, distinguished national deputies and invited! On December 7, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 7345. The legislative proposal has been initiated with the aim of providing public budget funds on a permanent basis for financial support to Autonomous Republic of Crimea broadcasters who provide information services. Accordingly, appropriate changes to paragraph 16 of the Budget Code are proposed. GNEU of the Supreme Council's Office made separate observations and proposals, including the lack of financial and economic justification and the need to obtain a conclusion from the government. In turn, the Ministry of Finance notes that the implementation of the bill does not require additional public budget expenditure, as the corresponding funds are already foreseen. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft law number 7345 to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u184	Thank you, colleagues. Now we have a chance to discuss this bill, I'm asking you to sign up. Please, Rephat Chubarov, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u185	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I am briefly enough, in this case, supporting the state of the Crimea-speaking TV companies means only that the cost of satellite-to-Crime language will cover the rental of studios located in Kiev, also for the acquisition of some equipment and especially for the production of Ukrainian content for Crimea, and what's particularly important is that this content is nowhere, the Crimean Content for this television. I'd like to support this bill. According to the reporter, this does not require additional funds from the budget, since these funds are foreseen for this current year in the corresponding article on resettlement, the setting up of Crimean Tatars and persons of other nationalities who have been deported by national status and are returning to Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one has signed up for this bill, I ask my colleagues to return to the session room, and there will be a vote on this bill in a moment. And all I want to do is support my colleague Refat Chubarov while the MPs meet, allow me to take a moment to make a speech, and last night in Parliament there were solemn arrangements dedicated to the century of Kurulta of the Crimean Tatar people. And there came a very large delegation of Crimean Tatars, including the occupied Crimea. Not for the first time very much sounded Crimean Tatar language in Parliament, and then colleagues then talked about how important it was for information to come to Crimea about the situation in Ukraine from the first lips. Of course, supporting this bill is extremely important in terms of our struggle in the hybrid war on the aggressor and bringing information to occupied territories. I don't think there's going to be any warnings here, all the more, really, it's important that Ukraine, isn't it the only country in the world that supports Crimean Tatar language? And this is also our answer to all of those insinuations of some of our neighbors, even of the immediate ones, as far as Ukraine is concerned, there is no room for oppression, for the development of the languages of the Nazis. On the contrary, we develop the languages of Nazismin, including in the information space. Colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs and we will now vote in favour of these important changes to section VI, paragraph 16, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. And then we're going to move forward in our order of business. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Now we're going to vote, we're just waiting for more colleagues not to come back, because there's been a quick discussion of this bill, and we see that there's not two points of view, there's only one point of support. Fellows, let's try this: we are now putting to the vote this bill amending section VI, paragraph 16, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Bill 7345, I ask you to support and vote in favour, colleagues. Vote. [[18:53:47]] For 216 My colleagues, I'm asking you very much to return to your seats. Please, colleagues, a very important bill, principled. Are you all set? Everyone's back? Colleagues, I would like to take the initiative to return to the consideration of Bill No. 7345 of the Bill amending section VI, paragraph 16, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Please, colleagues, we are now voting back on this bill. Please support me, this is about supporting Crimean Tatar language, I'm asking you to take a look and vote, please. For. [[18:54:46]] For 233 Thank you, colleagues. And now I'm betting on it. Of course it was a return to the debate, and now we're putting to the vote Bill 7345: the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 16, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Please be supportive. On the basis and in general, of course. Of course, on the basis and in general, we are already voting on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u187	So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. And I put to the vote the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 16, of the Budget Code of Ukraine (number 7345) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Please vote and support our brothers, the Crimean Tatars. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! [[18:55:54]] For 244 Decision taken. Welcome, colleagues, decision taken. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, when we were together on the Dialogues of Jean Monnet, we agreed on a compromise version of the bill on reform of parliament. It stands after the Tax Code. As long as the Tax Code is being printed, I'm going to ask you to transfer it to review now. So, colleagues, I remind everyone, all the participants, and Igor Greeneva, who was a member of the Dialogues of Jean Monnet, and I ask you to go back to the Hall, and also Maxim Burbak, who was, and John Krulka, and Oleg Valeriovich Laska, and colleagues from Self-Help. The Marezuk who was at the Dialogues of Jean Monnet. We agreed that we would vote on a bill that would predict that in the next call, I would stress: in the next one! – there will be no more than 20 committees. I would like to emphasize once again that we took the position on the ratio of committees and ministries. We've only left one thing, that's what the next call should be with no more than 20 committees. And, colleagues, it was a common position, it was a joint consensus decision of all factions. And now I ask, colleagues, that this bill be transposed and considered now. It's very simple. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize. That is what we have been able to unite completely. And I'm voting for a motion to move and consider the bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 6256). He's in the living room, I'm asking you to move him. And, colleagues, please unite, this is a compromise position, I've spoken to everyone. And I'm asking you to vote for this position, and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. All the factions that were present, who participated, we vote. [[18:58:25]] For 168 There's no room position. I'm asking for factions. I'm asking for factions. Peter Poshenko Block 71, People's Front 61, Opposition Block 0, Self-Help 0, Radical Party 14, Parenthood 8, Will of the People 5, Rebirth Party 2. But when we spoke, we all agreed, colleagues. I'm talking to the Rebirth Group, and the Will of the People, that was a common compromise position. Let us take a step towards reform of Parliament. I'll put it to the vote again, colleagues. I'm asking you to move again to look at it now. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Don't leave the hall. And I would like to support the transposition of the bill on parliamentary reform. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please support, we vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:59:41]] For-161 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, here's the next offer. Again, huh? And there's 50 votes missing, your voices won't be decisive, boys. All right, I'll do it again. So I'm re-voting the proposal so that we can postpone the consideration of the draft law, the reform of Parliament 6256 and consider it now. Please vote, and please support all those who made commitments during our dialogues. Please vote. Oksana, we've spoken to you. Please vote and please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[19:00:51]] For 184 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I now propose that we go to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the creation and maintenance of the National Bank of Ukraine Credit Register and improving bank credit risk management processes. This is Bill 7114. He's standing right here in the living room. Have you had an analysis? Do you have sufficient understanding of the faction’s position on it? There's only 30 rights, let's mobilize, colleagues, and let's vote. I'm begging you now. It's a second reading, we can go over it, right? Then I ask that the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the creation and maintenance of the National Bank of Ukraine Credit Register and the improvement of credit risk management processes for banks (7114) be considered. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Douben Mikhail Volodymirovich. A boy. A boy, please. The boy will be from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u188	Dear colleagues, in order to boost economic growth, we need credit, and in order to restore credit in our country, we need to create a credit register. This is why Bill 7114, in second reading, is being proposed today: to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on the creation and maintenance of the Credit Register of the National Bank of Ukraine and to improve the management of bank credit risks. I think we need to get to the right now, so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u189	Please, we can move on to the amendments, Your Honor, to this bill. 1st. The watermelon. Don't insist. Four. The watermelon. Is he insisting? Sold to Oxana. Oksana Sold, 8th. Don't insist. Lavrick, 10th. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. I can't hear you. Are you insisting? I'm sorry. Now, now, now. Your 10th Amendment. 10th Amendment, Lavrick. Oksana, I've announced you. You probably didn't hear. So first 10th, Lavric, then yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u190	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help. Indeed, the purpose of the bill is very noble, and similar credit registers are found in most European countries around the world. But as always, we want one thing, and in fact, it's quite different. The bill does not define the minimum amount from which commercial and state banks begin to submit data to such credit registers. The point of my revision was to limit the number of such data from 100 minimum wages. We're building another structure by this standard that's going to have a little bit more than we already have a prosecutor's office, we already have an IMF, we already have a Security Service that we're alloting a bunch of tax money to. There's another structure that's being created right now. The man went to the store, bought a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u191	15 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u192	The card was calculated, received two credits per card, and already the credit transaction will be entered into the credit register. So figure out the minimum amount, 100 minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u193	We vote in favour of Amendment 10 Lavrik. Sorry, my colleague Demczak wants to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u194	Dear Mr. Oleg, we've been looking at this issue on the committee, and today the banks and so on, each bank individually gives the National Bank information. Anyway. The essence of the bill itself is that we are now allowing the National Bank to inform other banks of the information it has received from a particular other bank. So there's absolutely nothing more going on here. And in order for this information and analysis system to work, it has to be complete. That is to say, the information must come in full, in no way limited to entry. On the way out, we can limit it, but we don't have to limit it to the entrance. And I also want no one to be deceived, no extra physical structure is created. It's an informational analytical system based on the National Bank, which is actually a software that's going to work and build everything into one analytical base.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u195	Colleagues, please vote for the 10th amendment of the People's Deputies of Lavrik. [[19:06:13]] For-103 Not supported by your amendment, 103 votes. 8 Amendment of People's Deputies Sold. Mrs. Oksana, please. We didn't hear. [[do not hear]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u196	Dear colleagues, Mr. Ruslane, I ask you to support Amendment 8 which will ensure the preservation of the banking secret in the event of the creation and transfer of information to the register. Because if this amendment is not supported, the adoption of this bill will lead to a loss of banking secrecy, first; secondly, a violation of the personal data of the bank's customers. I therefore believe that without this amendment this bill cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u197	Please comment, Mr. Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u198	Dear Mrs. Oksana, this is actually a conceptual moment in our bill. Because that's exactly what the banks are giving right now, and they're giving it that, and so, I repeat, to the National Bank that it's making up. And it's a bank secret. They share this information with the National Bank today. We are today in order to create this register, the essence of the law is to share this information with other banks. So that another bank, when entering this register, would realize that one person had accumulated credit in different banks. So just if we don't support it, it breaks the whole concept of the bill and the idea of creating a single register. So I don't think this amendment can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u199	Positions are clear. Colleagues, I'd like to make an appointment for the 8th Amendment. [[19:07:57]] For-94 94 deputies. No correction supported. Next 9th Amendment of People's Deputy Bondar, microphone, please, Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u200	Dear colleagues! 9th Amendment. Article 67, paragraph 4, of the Banking and Banking Act, please delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u201	We vote in favour of this amendment. Please delete certain items. Amendment number nine. [[19:08:32]] For-94 Not supported. Next Amendment 11. Please, People's Deputy Lavrick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u202	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Again. Indeed, to date, the law clearly defines what kind of information we have, the Credit Register should pass on to commercial banks upon request. However, in this law there is an obsessive standard for getting information into the doorway. If we leave that form, we'll get it from the National Bank tomorrow, almost as soon as we get a copy of the contracts with all the data on the individuals we don't know yet. Let's not produce another database that we don't even define at the legislative level today, but what we include in these databases. If we have a list of information that we're giving out, let's do the same mirror list of information that banks have to submit to the Credit Register. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u203	Colleagues, please comment to the profile committee, Mr. Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u204	Dear Mr. Oleg, we also discussed this at the committee meeting. And in addition to the fact that the National Bank only has this register, it stores information about creditors, it also needs this information for prudential supervision of a particular bank. Hence, the amount of information he needs to determine for himself, and that is what is being done now. You suggested, by the way, there's some kind of appropriate supplement, the National Bank said he didn't even need it. At the moment, he will limit himself to that amount of information, just information about the creditor, about the contract, and those apps he offered, they're no longer there. So he assures us, the National Bank, that we don't worry, in this case your amendment, I think it's too exaggerated in this case. The National Bank is even less demanding what you would like now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u205	Colleagues, we started to explain. 11 amendment, please specify. It's Lavrik's repair. [[19:11:03]] Z-62 62 votes, not supported. It was an 11th amendment, Mrs. Oksana. And now 14th Mr. Lavrik. Don't insist. Mrs. Oksana, 17th. Please turn on Mrs. Selling the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u206	Dear Irina Volodymyrna, I ask you to support this amendment, because the bill provides for the obligation of the debtor to access and obtain information from the Credit Register by the debtor, while defining in this order how this information will be useful, which will be determined by the Nutzbank. And you and I understand that if Natzbank wants to limit the borrower's access to this information, there can be all kinds of nuances. So I'm proposing this rule of order as defined by Nazbank. And once again, I want to insist that the 8 amendments we failed here make a completely unprotected bank secret by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u207	We vote for the 17th amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please make up your mind. [[19:12:18]] For-79 79 votes, non-supported amendment. I'd like to say that we're going to be going through the repairs, but we're probably going to have to give both Nazbank and Minfina a word about 8 amendments to Mrs. Sold to make them comment. The next amendment, Mrs. Prodan, is 21 amendments. Are you insisting? Mrs. Oksana, I don't see you through Mr. Solov. Mrs. Oksana Prodan, 21st. Don't insist. 24th. Mrs. Oksana Prodan, 24th Amendment. Don't insist. Mrs. Oksana Prodan, 28th Amendment. Don't insist. 31 revisions. Don't insist. Fishing, 33 repairs. Don't insist. Sold, 34 repairs. Don't insist. 40 revisions. Mrs. Sold the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u208	Dear Irina Volodymyrna, Amendment 40 provides for the limitations of that information that will be passed from bank to credit register, all the nuances that are in the credit agreement. And I'm going to suggest a paragraph to determine what information is provided on the final date of repayment of the loan/action of the financial commitment made in accordance with the contract, not all the information contained in the credit agreement. Because there is also a question of confidential information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u209	I see. Please. The committee does not comment, it believes that this amendment can be supported. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself as to the 40th Amendment of Oksana Sold. Please. [[19:14:14]] For-76 76 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 42 amendment, Mrs. Sold. Don't insist. 43 amendment, Mrs. Sold. Don't insist. 44th Amendment, Mrs. Sold. Don't insist. 46th Amendment, Mrs. Sold. Don't insist. 47th Amendment, Mrs. Sold. Don't insist. 48 repairs to Mr. Lavrick. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u210	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. The purpose of the bill was to create conditions that would make it impossible to cheat schemes on the part of unscrupulous bank lenders. This right is therefore proposed not only to keep a statistical register of credit liabilities, loan agreements of borrowers to banks, but rather to make it dynamic, to reflect information on overdue credit contracts. And the same is true of the property that is in the bequest of those contracts that are not paid on time by the appropriate lenders. So please consider the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u211	Please, Demchak comment now, People's Demchak. Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u212	The fact is that a lot of information, such as information about lawsuits, about bankruptcy procedures, is in open registers. This information is not relevant to duplicate again in manual mode. So only unique information is given here, and which is in other registers, it won't be submitted because the same bank that wants to estimate the level of the borrower can get it in other open databases. That's why we didn't support this amendment. Please reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u213	National MP Lavrick insists on 48 amendments. So I'm asking the room to make an appointment for 48 amendments. Please vote. [[19:16:23]] For-66 She doesn't vote, 66 votes. My colleagues, we've literally got one amendment left. Oksana Prodan insists. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u214	Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall right now, and in two or three minutes, there's gonna be a vote. I strongly request both the heads of the factions and the Supreme Council's apparatus to inform the deputies that in 2-3 minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. And I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. Mrs. Irina, please announce the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u215	Please proceed with the amendment of the 57 People's Deputies of Lehchenka. There, colleagues, sit in front of which to see Mr. Yuri. It's partially accounted for, in part. But Mr. Yuri insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u216	Thank you. The question is not in this amendment, it's a question in another amendment that's not in the table. And I'd like to make it clear in the report that, in the best tradition of our Parliament, there's something on the Supreme Council's website that there's no draft for the second reading, the whole bill, not a comparative table, but the whole bill. So I have an absolutely unacceptable rule regarding the right of the Bureau of Credit History to receive information from the Single State Register of Payers. Did you even get that rule out of your voice on the first reading? Did she stay? Because if it stays, then I have a question: Why isn't it my turn to clear it? Please give me an answer. Do you leave the norm that you gave the Bureau of Credit History the right to receive information from the Single State Register of Payers' only contribution? Because this rule is unacceptable, it gives birth to interference in the privacy of every Ukrainian and will have unforeseeable consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u217	Please comment, Mr. Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u218	I want to point out that the adjustment is partially accounted for, and it's counted. Well, it's about this right here, which is free of charge. And as for the Bureau of Credit History, they work up to 100 minimum wages, and as of January 1, it's going to be 370,000 dollars. To this level they provide information, more of this level is given by the National Bank's only register. It's so we don't break their business. Because that's what they're paying for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u219	We heard. Dear Mr. Levchenko, look, we made a deal, you just walked out of the hall. Yeah, what else. I ask you to take this question to the representatives of Nazbank and the Ministry of Finance, and to sum it up, Mr. Levchenko, Mr. Lewchenko, in summary, the Ministry of Finance and Nazbank will answer that question when we are finished. They've fixed your question now. Now the 58 people's deputies are sold. It was taken into account essentially, but Mrs. Oksana insists on taking this amendment fully into account. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u220	Dear Mr. Ruslane, I ask you to take into account that the provision of information by the National Bank for real-time banks should be done free of charge. And please support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u221	That's accepted. In fact, it's free.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u222	According to the committee representative, your amendment was accepted free of charge. You don't insist on voting then. Colleagues, we see that two questions have been asked about such principles by the Levchenk People's Deputies on the Bureau of Credit History and by Oksana Sold about 8 amendments that essentially relate to the secret of bank deposits. We're going to ask a representative of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the National Bank for two minutes right now. In the meantime, we ask everyone to gather in the session room because the law is important, it is so technical and we have 226 votes. Please, Mrs. Markarov. And then your colleague from the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u223	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is a great request to support this bill that we have worked with the committee. Because in fact, as the committee representative has already said, we see that we've achieved a return to economic growth, we see that there are funds in banks, there's liquidity, but we don't see that banks are actively starting to lend. Why? Because they have bags of unreturned loans, huge amounts, and because they don't know the real and complete information about their borrowers. That's why we're proposing today, all of us together, to create the right European model for communication of information that will be protected. The creation of such a register at the National Bank, where every bank will provide information and what it has, there is no extra burden on banks. And the National Association of Banks supports this bill as we suggest, and every bank in this register will also be able to get information knowing when the borrower came to it. This information is protected by the highest standards that protect the entire banking secret that banks exchange with the National Bank and, in fact, the virtuous lenders have nothing to fear in this register. It should be feared only by those who deliberately and deliberately do not repay credit to banks, thus preventing banks from fully restoring credit. So as far as credit offices are concerned, this bill does not have an extended portion of the credit office. Yeah, there's some things we need to improve, we think, but it's not the subject of regulating the bill. This bill is exclusively about the creation and operation of the National Bank Credit Register. We ask very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u224	Please turn on the microphone to the representative of Nazbank.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u225	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! The National Bank is asking to support this bill because it aims to reduce the level of credit risk, secure banking operations, increase the reliability and stability of the banking system in order to protect the interests of investors and other creditors of the bank. The bill will facilitate the execution by the National Bank of its legal functions in relation to banking supervision and financial stability analysis. The law provides for the National Bank to be empowered to create and maintain a credit register, and it also provides for lenders to have mechanisms to control and challenge the data contained in the credit register. The borrower whose information is transferred to the credit register is entitled to the information about himself contained in it and the right to request that changes be made to such information if he does not agree with what has been transferred. It is the responsibility of the National Bank to provide the borrower with information contained in the credit register regarding it and to take steps to correct the bank’s misinformation. And there's a way of looking at the lenders' requests for information about it that's in the credit register. Request to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u226	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, one more minute, and I'd like everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. Please invite all the deputies into the hall. In a minute, we'll have a decision to make. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u227	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Ukrainian National Security Act, one of the threats to Ukraine’s national security in the economic sphere is the increase in the credit risk of article 7. And Ukraine’s main policy on national security in this area is to ensure the internal and external protection of the national currency, its stability and the protection of the interests of investors in article 8. Article 6 of the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act, which we discussed today, on commercial secrecy, prohibits the processing of data on a natural person who is confidential information without consent, except in cases defined by law and only in the interests of national security, economic well-being and human rights. Therefore, I ask that this information, which contains personal data that will be submitted by banks to the credit register, is processed in the interests of national security and economic well-being and therefore does not require the consent of the subject. It's proposed to support project number 7114d in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u228	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u229	in the second reading and in general. And entrust the committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority, with the technical and legal harmonization of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u230	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, please, I'm asking everyone not to go back to voting, to go in and take jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and to maximize the number of factions' heads. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to create and introduce a credit register of the National Bank of Ukraine. And improvements in credit risk management of banks (number 7114-d) in second reading and in general. And this is a request from the committee, from the government. And I ask everyone to vote carefully and to support this bill. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote, colleagues, carefully, each vote. [[19:26:45.]] For-188. 188. Colleagues, if I put it on the committee for second reading again, it'll be supported. Again? Okay, I'll do it again. Return. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please show by factions. Please come into the hall. Peter Poshenko Block 94, People's Front 51, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 0, Radical Party 16, Parenthood 0, Will of the People 6, Rebirth Party 12. Colleagues, I'm going to make an offer to return now, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs right now. Can you support this?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u231	You'll be fine. I'll put it back on the committee once, if I don't. Okay? So I'm putting, colleagues, the offer to go back to 7114, the vote in favour in the second reading and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, please be advised to vote carefully, each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[19:28:17]] For 210 16 votes, 16 votes. 16 votes. Colleagues, I'll put it again and then I'll put it on the committee. My colleagues, I'm returning to the vote in general. Please support, please vote, if there are no votes, I'll re-read the second reading. Please vote, please support the return to the vote as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. Please support the return. Please support, we vote. This is the third and last time. [[19:29:04]] For the 220. Colleagues. Guys, we can't wait forever, I see. Okay. On the personal request of the faction's head I'll put it again, colleagues, but this will be the last time, Arthur, I ask you to mobilize just people, not to bet a lot of times. So I'm asking you to take your seats now, and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for the 7114 draft law. in favour of voting as a whole. Who's to go back to that offer? Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote, every voice! Careful! Careful, every voice. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support me. [[19:30:20.]] For 209 Even less, colleagues. No, it's not working. I'm proposing that we re-read the committee. I remember we agreed that you would support it. So that we don't lose the bill, I'm proposing Bill 7114-d for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Carefully, colleagues, so that we don't lose the bill, please vote and please support. I ask everyone to vote carefully. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote, my friends! [[19:31:03]] For 240 Decision taken. Unfortunately, it's just another one. Colleagues, please don't break up, listen to me very carefully. I emphasize that the Tax Code is already being printed, but I have a huge question for you from the security and defence bloc, which we have not been able to pass on Tuesday -- this is a bill amending Ukraine's arbitrary legislation on temporary permission to speak in the ATO. The committee worked, had several trips. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it now. Let's do it now. Let's do it now. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back me up right now. If you're in a position of principle, first of all, postgraduate. interns, and then this, I'll put them together, colleagues. Listen carefully, so that we have an understanding, I will put them together. Who's to it? These bills are in order of the day. These bills are in the order of the day session. Attention, colleagues! Now I'm going to make a proposal that the two bills that are in order for us to get to their consideration right now are 6596. [[B in m in s a l in]] on the support of Ukrainian auditors of the Supreme Council, and 6565 on the support of speech in the ATO area. Guys, I'm asking you to support me. No, it's not. One at a time, one at a time, one at a time. Who wants us to move in with the interns now? It's a very short technical bill -- support for the interns. I'm asking everyone to vote now and to support us now to move on to the issue of interns, colleagues. I ask everyone to vote carefully. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[19:33:06]] For 197 Colleagues, they go next in the day, just to see if there's any potential. Now I ask, colleagues, a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on temporary permission to speak in the ATO area. Colleagues, it's just to make sure you don't have a misunderstanding. Mr. Carpunz, listen to the presidency. Mr. Karpuntsov, we will now consider. Now we're going to be looking at the support of our top-ranking interns, and now it's going to be. After that, I suggest we put this one on. So do not be emotional, but support this proposal. I suggest after the interns we move on to Law 6565. Is it supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u232	Please all mobilize, colleagues. It's support, it's a committee that's worked and had a few trips, I'm asking you, colleagues, to support everyone. This is support for Ukrainian television in the ATO area. Please support us to move to Project 6565 after the interns. Colleagues, take your seats. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Please vote. [[19:34:34]] For 222 Four votes, please come in, take your seats, colleagues. I can do it again, I can do it the 10th time, and if you were listening when I'm talking and not doing my job, you'd know. I propose Law 6565 to the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, which held several travel meetings in the ATO zone and suggested that a portion of Ukrainian language be increased in the ATO area, regulated by this law. It's a patriotic law, I ask all patriots to vote so that after the interns we can get to its consideration. Do you understand? I ask you to vote. And I'm asking you to support everyone's attention. Every voice matters. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Every voice, careful. [[19:35:36]] For 238. 238, yes. Decision taken. Thank you. Now the interns and then the Victoria Sumar bill. So the first vote. 6596 – please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[19:36:06]] For-195 195-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u233	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that we are able to deal with this issue in front of the budget. There's no, I don't think, more of a question that could unite the hall. This is the question of our young, talented young people. These are the young people you see every day on the committees that are working on the Intern League support program. Let me remind you that this program was launched in 1995 with the technical support of the United States Government. She now administers USAID and the League of Internals. These are really talented young people who are taking part in a threefold competition. And, well, most of the people who went through this internship, they're very useful to our state, they're all working in pretty powerful positions, they're mostly scientists. So, well, what can I say? We ask the unfortunate two living minimums for six months, 30 scholarships to be installed. We have a chance. Well, unfortunately, last year, we were out of the Apparatus budget, there, millions of dollars, and we didn't find a total of 700,000 interns last year, which is why we were obstructed and wanted to cover up this program. Thanks to God and to the good people who have creaked 300,000 a year, it is not closed. I ask you to unite, return from the towers, from others. To reject, perhaps, some political conjuncture and support this determination. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u234	Guys, I'm inviting you to the microphone right now. Dear Mr. Kirilenko, my dream is to vote. But it will be a violation of the Rules, and your faction will embarrass me with shame. Therefore, Pinzenik Paul, the first deputy chairman of the Rules Committee, is invited to report as a coreporter of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u235	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the draft Decree, registered 6596. It was introduced, in particular, to ensure the implementation of the requirements of part nine of article 48 of the State Service Act and to determine the internship arrangements for young people in the Apparatus who are not in public service positions for the purpose of familiarizing themselves with the functioning of the public service in our Apparatus. The draft decree, along with others, proposes to establish a scholarship for interns in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to determine the number of such scholarships, the duration of scholarships and sources of funding. In the process of processing a project that takes into account the specific requirements of the Rules, the features of the budgetary process we have made our proposals for drafting a draft regulation and we ask them to be taken into account when voting, i.e. put to the vote with these proposals. It is proposed in the Preamble to note: “To ensure the implementation of part nine of article 48 of the State Service Act concerning the organization of internships in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. In paragraph 1 of the draft decision, note: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine apparatus for the purpose of familiarizing itself with the functioning of the State Service in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young people who are not in the service of the State, to develop and approve the procedure for the placement of internships in the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Paragraph 2 reads: "To establish 30 scholarships of the Supreme Council for persons who are interned in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on full-time terms as of January 1, 2018." Paragraph 3 of the draft decree stipulates that: "The fellowship of an intern in the Supreme Council's Office shall be at the size of two subsistence minimums set for working persons on January 1st of the calendar year. The amount needed to pay the scholarships to those who are being interned in the Supreme Council is confirmed by the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Item 4. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine annually develops a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act to provide for the budgetary allocations needed to pay scholarships to persons who are being interned in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And finally, in paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u236	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u237	This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. Taking into account such technical suggestions, we propose to support this draft decision. Thank you for your support, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u238	Thank you. Colleagues, at large, have nothing to discuss. This is a technical decision that essentially regulates the stay and internship of all the committees of the Supreme Council of Internal Affairs, which is very important for both committees, and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and for the development of our human resources potential for future civil servants, and for the interns themselves. There is a need to discuss whether we can simply put it to a vote? It doesn't, does it? There is no need to discuss. I'm just worried about everyone supporting it, and there's no 226. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room now so that we can put this bill to the vote. Colleagues, please, it's a technical absolute bill. And look, I want to inform you that there's already been a comparative table on the Supreme Council's website to the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code Act, and they're already giving out a table. So we're already going to this important moment of budget voting for changes to the Tax Code. But we still have to go through the internal voting procedure. Colleagues, I'd like to return to the session room, please. Now let's just do a rating vote to make sure we have 226 votes in the room. It's a rating vote, we're voting now 6596, draft regulation on some implementation issues. We are looking at how many votes we have, the 48th article of the Ukrainian State Service Act. Please, colleagues, show us the presence of deputies in the hall. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u239	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, we'll support our interns. Please vote. [[19:42:30.]] For 178.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u240	Colleagues, we're going back now. I don't think everyone understands the point. It's kind of a technical question, but it's actually support for the training and training of interns, who then become counselors, who then become specialists, and who then work with the National Deputies, and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's the support of talented young people, it's the "social elevators," which we talk so much about during broadcasts and performances. And so, colleagues, I am very much asking you to vote and support. Show by factions. I think there were interns working in every faction. And I'm asking everyone to mobilize, colleagues. I strongly request that everyone be invited to the hall. Yes, I'm asking everyone in factions to have a discussion, colleagues. This is the support of young talented Ukrainian boys and girls. I very much ask you to vote carefully. So, are you ready? Everybody in position, company? I'm asking you to support everyone regardless of factions and groups. I ask to vote in favour of the return to the vote in favour of draft Decree 6596. And I ask everyone to vote conscientiously and responsibly. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We'll support the Ukrainian youth. Please vote, please support. [[19:44:29]] For 221 They didn't run, I see they didn't run, colleagues, I see. But I ask them to run again when I announce that there will be a vote. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. I ask everyone to take part in the vote, colleagues. Because almost each of the national MPs must have had the support of the internal staff during their work. Please. Please. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to go back to work. Please prepare for the vote. There will be a first vote. Please support the return to Project Order 6596. And I ask everyone to vote carefully and support, colleagues, return. Please vote and support. Carefully, each voice matters. Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support the Ukrainian interns. We'll support the Ukrainian youth. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[19:45:41]] For 242 242, we're back. And now I'm putting the Bill Regulation 6596 on the ground and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support, colleagues, on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Vote. We'll support the interns. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[19:46:12]] For 244 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the Tax Code is already being distributed in the hall. And we're actually looking at the last draft before the Tax Code. But before I look at this bill, I want to read the message. Oleg, I don't have any hands. Now we're going through, I'm going to read the announcement after this law. We are now passing, as we have voted, as decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on temporary permits to speak in the ATO area (6565), is the second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. And then the Tax Code. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u241	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, a brief second reading, 22 amendments have been made. The essence of the bill was extremely simple, and the committee was working on it. A bill was born, indeed, in the negotiations in the area of anti-terrorist operations and in the Odessa region, where today we have millions of Ukrainians without Ukrainian television and radio. They can't see him or hear him. Why? Because the big channels are out there, they don't want to pay for even the power transmitters, there's no actual advertising, there's no market. And local television companies are not able to actually create these local Ukrainian television companies because it is very expensive to pay for a licensed congregation. And as a result, we have a situation where there are Russian television and Russian radios, or radios called the ORDLO area, called LNR and DNR. Whoever is in the ATO area knows this situation very well, someone who is not there thinks it's some other story. We talked to a huge number of people, all the members of the committees that were there, and other national MPs, and this was a request to the national MPs -- to support people who are willing to speak in these complex territories in Ukrainian for the implementation of Ukrainian laws. The point of the law is that they don't participate in competitions, and if they're willing to speak there, they apply to the Nacrad. And the Nacrad gives them one year's license for a special period, that is, as long as the war continues in Ukraine. That's the point of the bill. Please walk along the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u242	So we're going to the right-wing authors. I'm going to read those that were rejected. One, Danchenko. Don't insist. 2nd Semenha. He insists. Please, Semenha Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u243	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Regrettably, respected colleagues are not only unprepared for their second reading, but also the risks that may have been expressed in connection with the possible misuse of their first reading. Moreover, their risk cycle even increased. The bill still leaves an unclear list of border areas to which a special language regime has been extended. Hence, there are no guarantees, and there are high risks, including Western areas, that will be involved, and we can, as appropriate, draw on the violation of Ukraine’s international obligations. The draft law does not define clear and unambiguous criteria for selecting such border areas. So I insist on my right, which is going back to the original edition, that this law should only work in those areas that border with the temporarily occupied territories, namely Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk. Then, indeed, the goal will be to match the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u244	Thank you. Please comment, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u245	In fact, your amendment has separate areas that are on the Crimea line that don't even go there, but that's not the point. The international agreements are not broken because the UDF is actually issuing Nacradi frequencies that are still free and still Nacradis. And it's only about Nacrada's licenses. If the UDF says we can't give this frequency because it violates international agreements, the NAC has no right to manage it, it's completely different permits, which in this case we're talking about. And these international agreements are in no way in breach. As far as the border areas are concerned. We did not know how else to resolve the issue of Odessa, Bessarabia, Transnistria, where Russian television channels were actually coming from. And that's why we're talking about these territories. In fact, that was the position of the committee. Although I'm ready to hear this position, if our proposal, committee, doesn't get enough votes, I'm ready to read another one. This is the position of the committee. I'm not the one who defines it. I'm sorry. I, by the way, supported this position. That's why I'm asking you to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u246	You insist on voting, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u248	Roman, do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Semimenha. Anyone who supports it, please vote, the committee has turned down. Please. [[19:51:59]] For-90 90. The decision is not made. Next 11th, Danchenko. Don't insist. Next. 12th. Don't insist. 12th, insists. Danchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u249	Dear colleagues, there is no language in these border areas because Ukraine has not fulfilled its obligations to exclude the analog signal and has not yet made a digital connection. That's why there's no such thing. And I want to say that Mrs. Victoria Sumar, under the transcript on the first reading, confirmed my amendment. I want to remind you, it was all under the transcript. Therefore, this revision clearly defines the areas where such permits will work. That's right, these are just the border areas on the line where the ATO is going to be going at the moment. Everything else in its original form is the entire territory of Ukraine. Thus, the entire territory of Ukraine is free of charge. That's especially interesting right now before the election. Therefore, I ask you to uphold this right and to abide by international agreements. And once again, I want to remind you that under the transcript on the first reading, this was confirmed by the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u250	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u251	You know, I'm surprised to hear about the whole territory of Ukraine, because the bill applies to district centers on the border. What are the district centers, everybody understand? Not anymore. Other administrative units that do not have border areas do not apply. It's about regions where we have Russian television and radio that go on very strong broadcasters, on very powerful broadcasters, and where people sometimes don't even know Ukrainian, and they don't see or hear, and they live in someone else's information space. If you know how to solve this problem, do it in a different way. We're doing it here in this case through consultation. I've already told you about the breach of international agreements, this has nothing to do with Ukraine's international treaties. Because. Which is why I totally support Alexander Danchenk in that we need to go into digital language, move away from the analog, but this is for the UDCR, this is not about the National Council. Not the National Council. Well, Sasha, he doesn't take the National Council for Decisions. Talk to a loving expert in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u252	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm voting on Amendment 12, People's Deputy Danchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[19:54:48]] For-79 79. The decision is not made. 16th. Don't insist. He insists. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u253	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. My colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill proposes that speakers be allowed to operate outside the competition. I'll remind you, the re-centres are re-centred, but we have 16 border areas in Ukraine, and it's impossible to allow a bill, with good intentions, the situation in Crimea and Donbassa, to re-distribute the market when TV market players could be given the opportunity to create a new channel without losing their licenses. Let us remain in the legal field and not hide ourselves with good intentions. I insist on my right, which brings us back to the goal of at least sounding from the rostrum on the first reading that it is only a line of separation with the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u254	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote number 16 of the People's Deputy of Semimenha, and the committee rejected her. Who Supports? I ask you to vote, please. Colleagues, there's only one amendment left, so I'm asking you very much, I'm asking you to invite everyone to the National Deputies Hall right now and to take up jobs. [[19:56:02]] For-69 The decision is not made. And the last of the negatives, 18th. Mr. Roman, are you insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion and we can move on to making the decision. And I am now again addressing all the national MPs with the request to return to the Hall. I understand we've been working a lot of hours without a break, but now we're going to be able to go to a draft tax code that's already being distributed in the hall. And whoever wants to get it, you can have it now, but before that, we have to vote on that law. And so I'm asking everyone to look at who's not and who's not and who's calling, and I asked them to come into the hall so that we could get a positive vote. And I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies. This is a matter of national security and defence, and this is a question that will provide residents of occupied areas occupied by Russian invaders with access to the Ukrainian information field. This is a question that will be responsibly appreciated by who voted on this issue. Let me run a rating vote first to see if there are enough deputies. Do we have a deal? So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take part in the support vote first and please come into the hall and take the jobs. Please support everyone. And I'm voting first on draft Law 6565. And I ask, colleagues, very carefully to support everyone, it's a matter of national security and defence, and it's a matter of protecting the Ukrainian state over the territories that are occupied today. Please vote, please support the rating vote. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[19:58:26]] For 205 We're not there yet. We'll wait. Please. Please, now we've found a compromise position, now it's going to be sounded by Victoria Sumar and then we're going to vote, you listen to her, please. Turn on the microphone and please enter the hall to occupy your jobs. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u255	Since the committee proposal does not get enough votes, I do not know if due to the absence of people in the hall, we will not solve the problem of the Odessa region with Transnistria, but, our commitment, to resolve the issue at least with the ATO and Crimea. And so, at the request of the Self-Help faction, I propose an editorial that the territories with a special speech regime are areas of Ukraine bordering the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u256	Is it accepted? Roger that. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on temporary permission to speak in the ATO and border areas of Ukraine (No. 6565), as amended by the transcript of the Head of the Committee on Freedom of the Word of Sümar Victoria Petrovna, and in accordance with technical law. Please vote, please support. Patriots, we vote, we support. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. [[20:00:24]] For 241 241 – yes. Decision taken. So, colleagues, 20:00 in the Hall, everyone who wanted to win, has already received tables that have been developed by the Committee of the Draft Law before amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the balance of budget revenues in 2018. So according to our vote that took place before lunch, we first pass a bill of amendment to the Tax Code and then draft budget. And this will be our final bill this day. And I invite you to the report on draft Law 6776-d, Head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. Excuse me, excuse me. Please wait a minute, I want to read the application. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Parbia Andrija Volodymirovich. A statement. I'm reporting on my membership as a member of the Radical Party's parliamentary faction, Oleg Láška, in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. Respectfully, the National Deputy of Ukraine Zarztko. Welcome. [[Applause]] And I would like to invite the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna, please. And I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for hard but fruitful work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u257	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Allow me to report on the position of the committee on the draft amending bill for the Ukrainian Tax Code on the sustainability of budgetary revenues in 2018. I briefly recall the substance of the draft bill we adopted on 14 December 2017, which has a direct bearing on the budgetary resources of Ukraine's State Budget in 2018. The first reading of the project provides for an index of absolute tax rates, i.e. an increase in the environmental tax rate by 11.2 per cent, an increase in the interest rate for the use of naphtha for non-derived mining purposes, rent for special use of water and rent for special use of forest resources, taking into account the price index for industrial producers, an increase of 16.8 per cent. Establishing a schedule for the increase of special excise duty rates on tobacco products and minimum excise duty and the payment of excise duty on tobacco products in 2018, taking into account the previous indexation totalling 29.7 per cent and 20 per cent by 2025 each year until the achievement of the EU minimum standard of 90 euros per thousand units. The peremptory norm of section XIX, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the need for the annual submission of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers a bill on the increase in rates determined in absolute terms is transferred to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, such a bill being submitted if necessary. The second reading had reached 244 suggestions. These proposals apply to virtually all chapters of the Ukrainian Tax Code and amendments to other Ukrainian legislation. With the participation of a broad range of Ukrainian national MPs, experts and experts from several committees, we have been fairly balanced in the processing of all the proposals, which is generally taken into account, in part and in fact 178 proposals, the corresponding 66 proposals have been rejected. The committee suggests that a number of money be taken into account in the second reading, aimed at improving tax standards and other tax rules on individual taxes for stimulating business, improving the investment attractiveness of the state, and liberalizing business conditions. In addition, we propose the introduction of rules on the protection of the rights of taxpayers and the strengthening of the responsibility of officials of the supervisory authorities for violating their rights. In order not to waste time, we may change or continue to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u258	I suggest we move on to the amendments. Colleagues, look at the situation: 250 amendments were made to the Customs Code. Before the Tax Code, 250 amendments were made to the draft Tax Code. Let's be realistic, and we'll announce only those amendments that have a chance to be supported right now so that we can actually handle both the Tax Code and then the draft budget. I am. Debts don't insist. I'm looking at the amendments that might be what they're insisting on. If I don't notice someone, colleagues, you'll raise your hand. Okay? Now, now, now. There are a lot of amendments, colleagues, included. A lot of changes are taken into account. And most of the amendments are taken into account, but there are several amendments that the colleagues may ask for. A hundred repairs to Sidor. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Eight? No, so I'm looking at the amendments. Look, we're on our way to the repairs. Yeah, they say it's bad to hear. Colleagues, I'm going to fix it. It's just that I can't help but notice some kind of amendment that was rejected. 7th Amendment, Krishin. 8 revisions counted. It's a Southern. Counted. It requires an amendment of 8 to be submitted to the approval of the national deputy of Žuriy. Please, 8 revisions. Mrs. Nina, I'm asking you there to mark the amendments that look for confirmation. Please, Mr. Jury, I give the floor, of course, to my colleagues. We're going after the repairs, don't worry. 8 revisions. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u259	The amendment applies, as noted in footnotes, and is proposed to update the term "big taxpayers" from modern economic realities. I'm comparing two columns, they're identical. So please explain the substance of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u260	Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u261	Notice that the proposals that have been made relate to increasing the volume of all activities in the last 4 consecutive tax quarters to 50 million euros, this is a norm that is not currently in the Tax Code. And this. This amendment is made at the request of, including, the Office of Large Taxpayers. Because in view of the significant increase in the volume of transactions of all taxpayers to the Office of Large Payers this year, another thousand 200 payers are expected to pass. And the whole point of the Office of Large Payers is very different, and they have to do business with financial and industrial groups so that, in one body, these groups can be checked and very productively controlled by the payment of taxes to all economic operators. There's absolutely nothing new about this. We talked about the connection to the euro last year. That's the year we got married.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u262	Nina explained. Did it satisfy you? To confirm, are you insisting? The explanation was unsatisfactory, and the national deputy, Zjury, insists on making the eighth amendment to Mrs. Jujanina, which the committee confirmed and supported, to confirm. 8 amendment, please vote in favour. I'm just explaining that it's a committee. Why is Yuri Leschenko yelling at the First Vice Speaker, by the way, already tired? Let's do the repairs correctly. [[20:09:18]] For-69 Correction not supported. Please, the 9th amendment, this is the amendment of the Sidorchuk People's Deputy, it was taken into account essentially. The National MP, Georges, asks her to be put on the stand for confirmation. Please, he's got a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u263	Nina Petrovna, when we say that we have a number of operations that have grown very heavily into taxpayers, I want to remind you that we've changed all the criteria last year and raised the bill twice. 9 says the volume of operations is going to increase from 1 billion dollars to 2 billion dollars. Another year there were 500 million. If we had such a significant growth in the economy, we would have had GDP increase twice, we would have had an increase in other indicators twice, maybe inflation would have increased differently. But these percentages, sometimes not even 10 percent, so let's talk about the fact that we've had payers' operations doubled and we have to do 2 billion, I think it's the previous one. The only thing that will increase is that it will produce the number of entities that should be controlled by the office of large taxpayers, who, by the way, form about 80 percent of the budget revenue, and allow them to avoid and negotiate with local district administrations. So I'm asking you to put this right here for confirmation, and I don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u264	Please, Mrs. Nina, your explanation from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u265	I just explained to my colleague. And I suggest you ask the State Fiscal Service for a parliamentary request, to understand that no payer who is currently there will come out of there, but this rule will not allow you to remove another large number of payers from the office, and the essence of the work of the office is completely different. I told you about that. So I'm asking you to support amendment 8, because the 9's are accounted for essentially. I don't think there's even a need to vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u266	We've just failed the 8th amendment, Mrs. Nina. 9th you insist, Mr. George? He insists. 9th, please bet on confirmation. The committee voted for the 9th amendment, and the committee asks for a vote in favour. [[20:11:40]] Z-77 77 votes. Not supported. 10 revisions. Please, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u267	Again, I don't understand the amendment, because the 9th amendment, which is for, says from 1 billion to 2 billion. As fast as I look at this change, we're again going from 1 billion to 2 and we're going to increase by 1 billion to 500. And once again, it's counted as one and the other. They're mutually exclusive. When we talk about a large number of taxpayers who from the local tax office will move into the large office of payers, it seems to me that this is a pretty good initiative, because it will be easier to administer them, it will be possible to ensure a better quality of the professionals of the large office, maybe a little bit good, but to reduce the number of professionals in district inspections that are very often not as qualified as professionals in the office of large taxpayers. So I propose not to support these norms, they overlap each other as if, and I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u268	The 10th amendment that the committee supports, please submit for confirmation. The committee voted in favour. That's the 10th amendment, Mrs. Nina. [[20:13:10]] Z-70. 70 votes. Not supported. Come on, please. Oleg Lazko does not insist on repairs there, he noticed by a hundred. So who has any more notes on the way? I'm looking for rejected corrections. What do you need? What's that? [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? We haven't gotten to the hundreds yet. I'm looking for where the corrections were rejected, I'll tell you, and then we will. There's plenty of things that are included in the 100th amendment. Yes, Gerega. 98th. Don't insist. Cedarchuk, 100th. Sidorchuk. 100th. Don't insist. 100th. Danchenko. 101st. Danchenko, microphone, please. 101 repairs, Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u269	Please support my order of 101st: to complement the point "e" with the following: "suppliing international electricity services and international roaming services provided by Ukrainian telecommunications operators for the benefit of foreign telecommunications operators." Because without this amendment, we have a discriminatory attitude towards one sector, because there is no such tax in the transport sector. Communications operators cannot develop new services, new services such as transit telecommunication hubs, transit traffic. Please support Amendment 101.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u270	Colleagues, there's Mrs. Nina's comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u271	Dear colleague, I've been trying to get all the information on your proposal, but unfortunately, in such a short time, we haven't been able to. And I promised the industry that we would come back early in the year, because this is a replacement for a zero bet. So the branch will receive VAT compensation, which was not before. So we need to work very carefully with the Ministry of Finance. That's why we didn't support it, although we're essentially going back to the beginning of the year to deal with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u272	We now vote for the 101 amendment of the Danish People's Deputy. Please, colleagues. [[20:15:59]] For-47 Not supported. There was a technical discussion here, Sidorchuk's amendment. I advertised it, it's rejected. The author cannot take the floor under the Rules of Correction. Now, we're moving. 105 amendment next. This is also Danchenka. 105th. 104th is Kobceva, it's counted. 105th is yours, Danchenka. Please, 105 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u273	After section I, paragraph 1, complete the new paragraph 3 with this content. In subparagraph 195.1.3, paragraph 195. Article 195 should be supplemented by this point (g). The provision of international electricity and international roaming services provided by Ukrainian telecommunications operators for the benefit of foreign telecommunications operators. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u274	We're voting for 105 amendments to Danchenk's People's Deputies. Please, colleagues. That's 105th, 105th Amendment. [[20:17:03]] For-54 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. The next amendment is the 112th People's Deputy Danchenk. Please, the microphone. If you haven't noticed anyone, please raise your hand. 112, Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u275	In paragraph 198.5 of article 198, paragraph (a), after the words “outside the customs territory of Ukraine”, add the sign and the words “except for services taxed at zero rates under subparagraph 195. 1.3 Article 195.1 of this Code." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u276	I'd like to proceed with the amendment of the 112 people's deputies of Danchenk. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:17:57]] Z-62 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 123rd, Moses. Don't insist. Now, I heard, I heard, I'm going back to her. We don't do things that fast. 116th National MP Krishna's amendment, it's counted. Please, George, it's George's microphone. This is the 116th amendment that was counted by the committee. And George asks her to put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u277	Colleagues, 116 revisions suggest the order of registration, the order of the registration of the blocking of actually tax receipts to transfer to the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, the Ministry of Finance performs this function. And I think that's part of his competence because he's in politics and politics in finance and in taxation. So putting this question at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers is, in my opinion, inappropriate. Please bet on confirmation. And I don't support it. And the same is true of this regulation, and we jumped, number 80. So I ask her to come back later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u278	Nina Yuzanin wants to comment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u279	Dear colleagues! I thank the Ministry of Finance. Finally, we found an opportunity to solve the situation with the blocked tax notes. So a few amendments will apply to this particular issue. Please be careful. Starting with the first amendment that was just brought to your attention, 116th, it's overwhelming for all the payers who are now in a locked state. It's agreed by both the committee and the Ministry of Finance, and it's very good that we found an understanding. So please support 116 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u280	I think the explanation was perfectly clear. Mr. George. You're still putting on confirmation. At the request of my colleague, despite Mrs. Nina's explanation, I'm putting 116 amendments to the confirmation that the committee is asking to support, to vote in favour. [[20:20:22]] For-80 80 votes, not confirmed. Colleagues, look, we can't go back that far. I didn't jump, I went very, very fast. Now, the next amendment, look, we're at 116th, then we're moving: 121, don't insist. From her. Next. 123rd, Moses. Please. Guys, we can't go back. 123rd. Please, Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this proposal for me to raise by three points of the ad valorem rate adds 2 billion dollars to the state budget. And that's been proven entirely by previous promotions, similar to what is being done this year. I understand the tobacco lobbyists who are here in the hall doing everything they can to make our people smoke as many cigarettes as possible in the form of an improved budget. But actually, the reduction in cigarette consumption and the 3% increase in ad valorem rates is an additional 2 billion dollars budget. Do we have so much money in the budget that we don't need any extra money? You can use them for any development and any other industry, not this industry that's killing us. So I'm asking you to put up my bill and vote for it, so that our cigarettes are more expensive than ours, as the committee suggests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u282	The explanation is clear. Colleagues, we're putting the amendment to 123 to the vote. 123rd. The committee turned it down. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:22:19]] For-36 36 votes. It doesn't add up. I'm pointing out that we're now at 123. We're not going back early now, and in the end, I just remember yours, so we don't jump back and forth, because we're completely confused. From now on, it's 123rd. We're moving on. Jubilee, 124th. I'm looking at the hall, and that's where someone in these numbers is telling me. If that's the case, we're in the end. Krishin, 132nd. Krishin, 133rd. Great, of 133 revisions, it's in the text. Krishin, 133rd. It's counted. But George insists that we put it on the stand. Please, George's microphone. 133rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u283	Dear colleagues, request 133 for confirmation. And I'm going to ask the chairman to go back to 80 revisions so that we don't put all the redundancies on the stand right now, and we don't waste any more time. And 133 for confirmation and no support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u284	Look, I'm repeating what I heard about your 80s. Well, you can't work either. In the end, we're going to look at everyone and go back to the '80s, because another colleague came up, said he didn't hear anything else. We're going to jump like this, and we're really going to spend a lot of time. I'll get back to your 80 adjustments. Really? That's more comfortable. Now 133 and we're moving on. 133rd for confirmation. The committee wants to vote in favour. I fixed it there in the 80s, 99s, that's later. Please. Now it's 133rd. The committee supported her. Please vote in favour. [[20:24:00]] For-59 59 votes. Let's move on. The 80th is going to be in the end. 134th, Krishin. Don't insist. What's that? 135? Confirm 135th. Hurry up, please, microphone. Oh, just for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u285	Request confirmation 135.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u286	135 is requested for confirmation. The committee supported her, colleagues. Ask the committee to vote in favour. 135th. [[20:24:40]] For-56 56 votes. This amendment is not supported. Now, which one? Now. 137. It's Krishna, too. She was counted. Takes George to bet on confirmation. Please vote. The committee is asking to vote in favour of 137. [[20:25:12]] For-56 56 votes. This amendment is not supported. Now, let's move on. The 146th Committee voted in favour. And I didn't see that it wasn't confirmed. Now, just a minute. It's an amendment to the 146th Martovitch. Martovitch. Mrs. Victoria. It's essentially accounted for. You're putting her on the stand? The 146th is on confirmation. I give my word. I'm just explaining that it's 146 amendments to confirm. Vojcitsky, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u287	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that I'm going to ask you to put both 146 and 149 revisions. Now I want to go to the hall. This is about the part of the axles that apply to the introduction of new rent rates into new wells. I've always been a fan and I support the idea of introducing 12 percent rent into new wells. And we've talked about this with my colleague and colleagues from other political forces over and over again, that we need to stimulate domestic production. And I am very grateful to Mrs. Bilkovi for her next amendment, 147, in which she clearly points out exactly the proposals that are unanimous. Martovic's 146, respectively, and Mr. Lazko 149 is introducing an additional 5 percent rate for wells that are less than five kilometers away. We think it's wrong. And I think we should put both 146th and 149th on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u288	Any comments from the committee head? Then I'll bet on confirmation 146 of the amendment. The committee considered it in part; in fact, it did not take into account the drafting of the committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:27:39]] For-51 51 votes. It's not counted. And 149th, the next, was partially counted. Please bet on confirmation on Mrs. Vojcitsky's request. 149th. [[20:28:00]] For-48 48 votes. It's not confirmed. Not supported. We're now equal to 153 revisions. 154 revisions. Two amendments are made to the request of the People's Deputy of the Pigeon: the Holy One, 164th and 165th, Babia. And there was Kulinich. I'll be right back. Yeah, yeah, okay. 164 revision of the Holy One. Counted. It's the pigeon's confirmation. Please, the microphone. 164th. Dove, Blue Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u289	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I ask you to give my word to my next right. Article 291 of the Ukrainian Tax Code provides for the amendment of 164, which prevents agricultural producers of meat and edible co-products of domestic chickens from being able to pay the sole tax of group IV. I would like to point out that this right is contrary to article 42 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the State protects competition in entrepreneurial activities. I would also like to point out that this right is contrary to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition, which prohibits the State body from creating anti-competitive and discriminatory conditions for the activity of economic operators compared to other competitors. And I also want to point out that this bill is actually aimed at destroying the fiscal sector of the economy, which gives about 12 billion dollars a year, as well as the destruction of 130,000 Ukrainians and their families, who daily work hard enough to raise the Ukrainian economy. Please place 164 confirmations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u290	I understand your position. The author of the amendment, Saints, requires words. Please, the Holy One's microphone. And then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u291	Dear colleagues, what is it? The IV group of single taxes has to pay off enterprises that use the land as a basic tool. But the bird factories do not use it and pay it, in fact they are in offshore conditions. What do we have? For example, the Winnitz bird factory receives 45 hectares, there are 45 hectares, and they pay 20,000 dollars of tax on an auditioned income of one and a half billion dollars, which is nine thousand times less. In fact, there's a substitution of concepts, instead of the only fixed tax, there's an offshore for the oil companies. The request for a high - cost meat business to be converted to general tax conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u292	Colleagues, we have heard the author’s explanation of the amendment and the objection of the Dove Authority, which requires confirmation. I'm asking the room to decide now by voting on Amendment 164. Please make up your mind. [[20:31:31]] For-55 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Now the following amendment is made by 165 national deputies Babia, who have also been considered in substance, and the Dove’s government insists on confirmation. Microphone, please, Dove Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u293	It is also proposed to amend article 291 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which prevents agricultural producers from paying the sole tax of group IV. I want to say that my previous speech was completely relevant to this revision. But once again, I would like to point out that we are now, more specifically, in violation of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say, "The Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine," which prohibit amendments to articles that were not considered at the time of first reading. I would like to point out that article 291 of the Ukrainian Tax Code was not considered at the time of the first reading, so the bill is worthlessly legal and absurd in its essence. Please do not support this operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u294	At the request of Vladislav Dove 165, the amendment of the people's representative Babia is in favour of confirmation, please identify the hall. [[20:33:07]] For-48 She was supported by 48 national deputies. Let's move on. 163th. Kulinich. Don't insist. Now. 166th? No, it's six o'clock fine. Oxana Prodan, 172. Don't insist. Okay. Leuchenko, 173rd. Lechenko insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u295	Levchenko "Freedom", 223 district, city of Kiev. First of all, I'd like to point out, just like under the Budget Code, under the Tax Code, in the regulatory position, how you're pushing it out now. When we were given this table a few decades ago, it was still "hot," it was "hot," because it just came out from under xerox. You're violating the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which in 10 days should be passed with the relevant bills prepared, you don't do that. And you're turning a little bill into a few pages, you're turning it into a 200-amendment bill, most of which are accounted for, which is totally unacceptable. You push outside the regulations there illegally, you push out completely different standards that you can't analyze right now, you can't work on them professionally, because everyone's seen it just now. And now essentially the amendment. You propose to withdraw Kabmin’s obligation to index the corresponding payments that are in absolute numbers. And let's just give it a chance to do that -- that's ridiculous. If payment is appropriate, it is tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u296	Fifteen seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u297	If the corresponding tax payment is recorded in the Tax Code in absolute numbers, it is bound to be indexed. Because if it's not indexed, it doesn't mean anything -- it's funny when inflation moves to the tail. How can you do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u298	I see. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you to proceed with the amendment of 173 People's Deputies, please. [[20:35:25]] For-32 32 votes supported your amendment, they don't count. Colleagues, we've already been on 173, and 172 is a sales amendment and it's rejected. It's a sale. And the 9th, the 9th, we're going to get to her. Now, now. 179 is Krishna's amendment, it was taken into account, please, by the National Deputy Jury, the microphone he wants to place on confirmation 179 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u299	Colleagues, 179 amendments are meant to bring back to the test mode the tax system that has been in operation in Ukraine since January 1st of this year. We'll see. against the return of this standard, in fact, and the return to the test regime, most business associations came forward. And that's going to result in an additional systemic loan being thrown out, in our opinion, and there's going to be some pretty serious abuse. Because we think that the DFS has to work on improving the blockage so that they don't suffer, really, good payers that are illegally blocked. But to reject us actually a year ago and to say that this year has gone by in vain and that now the schematic loan and the screwdrivers can come back, in my opinion, is inappropriate. So this is a mega-corruption amendment and I have a request to put it to a vote and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u300	Please comment on Nina Yuzanina's 179th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u301	Dear colleagues! Blocked tax slips are now the biggest problem of small and medium-sized business and everyone knows about it. I don't know why they wrote in the comments, in the test mode? We're not going back to any test mode. Please read the whole amendment completely in order to understand that, really, in order to have time to fix work right now and for software, we're going to take a two-month break in order to set up the system and make arrangements with those blocked overheads that are there. It was a compromise with the Ministry of Finance, please read a very useful norm and I think it's the most important thing for many deputies today in the Hall, most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u302	Dear colleague, George, I've seen that your colleague in the faction of Mrs. Ostrikov supported Mrs. Jujanina's position, but you still require confirmation, so let me make it clear, because I'm afraid to balance the bill. Please, 179 amendments apply to the confirmation, to the request of the Jury MP, the committee asks for a "yes" vote. [[20:38:23]] For-94 Not supported. Colleagues, we're moving fast enough, and I want to talk to those who are now in the cafeteria or in the study or in the office, in about 15 minutes we're going to go out and I'm thinking about voting. So count your time to get everyone to the session room, and in about 15 minutes we'll be out to vote on the code. 180th. I'm leaving now, just a minute. Now, colleagues, amendment number 180, this is the amendment of the Sidorchuk People's Deputy, it has been counted, but it is required for confirmation. Miroshnichenko, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, Mr. Ivan, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u303	Yeah. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u304	It's 180a, Sidorchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u305	Yes, the honourable colleagues, especially colleagues, we have a second-largest committee, and I'm surprised that these amendments were not even considered by us. What are we talking about? You and I are returning to a discriminatory norm where there will be no VAT return on exports of technical oil crops -- rape, sunflower and soy. What will this lead to? This will result in lower prices in the internal market, and our producers will pay for it. Tens of thousands of manufacturers will pay about 10 billion dollars a year in their pockets. Where will it be improved? Improvements will be in processing, in the margins of our factories. That's a plus. But where will the compensators be, where will the compensatory support be, if we don't go? So I want to put this rule in support, I think. For confirmation, yes. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u306	I understand your position. So it's Amendment 179. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's 180, yeah! Sorry! 180's on confirmation. Please make up your mind. The committee voted in favour. 180 repairs. [[20:40:54]] For-76 This amendment does not take the necessary number of votes. 182nd. 182 amendment, national MP Miroshnichenko asks to turn on his microphone. So 182 revisions. 182th, this is the people's deputy Babia, she was considered by the committee essentially. Miroshenko's asking for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u307	This amendment refers to the same thing. But I want to remind you, dear colleagues, of history. You and I haven't returned for two or three years, and we had the same discriminatory norm for exporting grain crops when we didn't return VAT. When we export a pen, a tank, a plane, we return VAT. Only agrarians are subject to such a discriminatory norm. Well, you and I were able to get back. The return of VAT on grain exports, which gave additional support to the agross sector about 10 billion, and now, by voting for such amendments, we're taking the same amount from the agrarian sector of the producer -- 10 billion. So I think that's a rule we can't introduce in this code and ask for support. Thank you. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u308	Colleagues, we're putting 182 amendments on confirmation, 182th. The committee supported her. Please make up your mind. [[20:42:31]] For-79 Seventy - nine votes, she's not under. As yet not confirmed by the hall, this amendment. We're at 185, colleagues. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u309	Third. All right, I'll be right back with her, now, a minute. 183. Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Láška and Galasjuk She's been rejected by the committee. Please, it's Halasyuk's microphone. Or is it a hazelnut? Lousyuk, Galasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u310	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear Irina Volodymyrovna, dear Nina Petrovna, we insist on taking into account this amendment, which we propose to withdraw the import VAT from Ukraine of motor vehicles equipped exclusively with electric motors. Remember, two years ago, we took down import duties, and that allowed us to triple the market for electricity today. This is fundamentally important because it's independent of fuel imported from Russia from Belarus. Because electric cars are pure air. Because electric cars are innovations. Electromobiles are where the world is going, because in Europe, in 10 years, it has been planned to critically restrict the production of cars with traditional engines. So today you have to give incentives for innovation, you have to get rid of the taxes on the electric car, because there's not going to be any budget losses, and then, 10 years later, you have to think about how we don't need to import from Europe and make discounts on it. Let's act proactively for the future, not catch up with the leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u311	I'm betting on the amendment of the people's deputies of Lasha, Halasyuk. Hall, please identify yourself. 183 to be heard by the applause of the amendment number. Please vote. [[20:44:32]] For-119 119. But, yes, they say, and if Ukrainian, they ask their colleagues here. 119 votes were in favour of the amendment. 184th is the amendment of the Galasyuk People's Deputy, which was included. Please, George's microphone. Then Galasyuk will comment. Victor Halasyuk, here comes your amendment, which was counted, 184th, Mr. Georges puts it on confirmation. Prepare to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u312	I have a request to continue my time. Thank you. Colleagues, on the one hand, are important. We've always said that we need to support production, and importing new equipment in general in the manufacturing process will also allow us to increase the efficiency of this. But it is doubtful whether this rule is needed in a country where VAT is reimbursed because it can be compensated. If we do not plan to make amends in the near future, it makes sense. And the second question is, what about the national hardware manufacturer? If we want to get upset, this standard has to be added to the equipment produced in Ukraine and imported into Ukraine by such codes. Then we say we support production and we don't kill Ukrainian equipment manufacturers. So I have the request of the authors to hear the amendment, and in general the room, to put it on the stand, because this amendment will kill the manufacturer of Ukrainian equipment, and it can only be voted on if standards are added to this amendment, which is distributed to Ukrainian hardware manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u313	A loudspeaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u314	Dear Mr. Andrew, distinguished colleagues, this issue was discussed with employers, industrialists, entrepreneurs. They support this revision because we understand that unfortunately today we have a critical potential for internal production. On the other hand, this amendment -- it will allow you to open today, in fact, a door to bring about the modernization of Ukrainian production, and this rule will work temporarily, and it will allow you to substantially spend your investment. We realize that unfortunately today, quality equipment manufacturers are, unfortunately, mostly foreign. So this is a temporary, forced action. What's more, we haven't found any mechanisms that would allow for transparent administration, taking into account the standards you're proposing. That's why we've been discussing this with the Prime Minister, and we suggest we confirm this amendment. In the case that at the implementation stage you need some code clarifications, I think you and I will do it quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u315	Please, Mrs. Nina wants to add a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u316	Dear colleagues, if you read this whole amendment, it contains just the kind of fuses you've been hinting about. The fact is, really, transparent VAT compensation exists in the country, but there's nothing to pay for it when you import the whole amount. That's why it needs to be dissipated for 24 months under bank guarantee or assignment. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah. I'll tell you what, hold on a second. So this is a very good standard. But I think we can editorially add, Mr. Victor, "unless such equipment is produced in Ukraine." To protect the Ukrainian manufacturer, if there is such equipment. Would you agree with that? [[B in m in s a l in]] Agree, huh? Then let's redecorate what all the codes are called, but if this equipment is not produced in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u317	So a few suggestions were made. I'll be right there. I'll sum it up and ask questions later. So we heard an explanation of the amendment. The head of the profile committee suggests that there should be a rule, that "if this equipment is not produced in Ukraine." Is that the way to make amends? No, he's not. It doesn't work, and that's why I'm doing it first. I'm first asking Mr. Jury to confirm the amendment, and then you're going to hold a meeting and think about how we're going to proceed with a harmonized bill. Please correct 184 for confirmation. Mr. George needs it. It's the Halasuk Correction. Please vote, be determined. Now, 184 revisions now. [[20:49:18]] Z-91 91 National MP, not confirmed. Now we have 197 Lechchenka. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already announced. All right, I'll be right back, I'll be right back. I'll find her. 197 Lewchenka, and in the meantime I'm looking for 185. 197th, please, Lechchenka, this is a rejected amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u318	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, it's very sad that they didn't support my previous amendment on the need to index those tax payments that are in absolute terms. This is essentially another corruption scheme that is now prescribed in the Tax Code. Now, about this amendment of mine. In fact, there's only one question in this bill on which you can say with 100% confidence that it's normal, because it was previously adopted in the first reading, and now it's still there. It's a matter of raising, actually, excises on tobacco products. So this is one question that's normal: they're proposing that I defer to this standard that I want to clean up, by 2024, to actually raise these payments for tobacco. Well, what the hell is this? Well, who are you kidding? My amendment suggests removing the suspension so that the corresponding taxes on tobacco products can be increased immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u319	We vote in favour of amendment 197, this is the national deputy of Lechchenka, who was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. I can hear you, I can hear you. [[20:51:03]] For-39 Not supported. 185 revisions. This is the 185th Amendment of the Wozniak, which was considered by the committee, which was counted by the committee. And the national deputy, Georges, demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please turn on the microphone. Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u320	Madam Chairman, I have a request after the 185th to go after every correction, because there will be remedies so that we don't miss them. As for 185, actually, you know, we all said we wanted to put the tax on the capital. I honestly expected that at least these amendments would be in this bill and that it would make sense to support it. Instead, this bill now has a lot of rules that set out some kind of income tax benefit for businesses. This particular standard actually reduces the income tax on the ability to calculate the excise duty paid on fuel. It practically sets the benefits and reduces the liability. So I'm asking you to put it on confirmation and not back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u321	Mrs. Nina, would you like to comment? Is that your amendment? Please turn on the microphone for Mr. Wozniak. The microphone's already running, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u322	Today, when we buy gasoline or diesel, we pay 5 percent, and it's put at the price of fuel, in the road fund of Ukraine, from which we build roads. But there are means of transport, rivers and so on that they don't use roads, but at the same time they pay 5 percent excise duty. This right suggests that this 5 percent of the excise duty paid should be paid to such enterprises as income tax, and that this amount should be deducted from the income tax. I think it's logical and very correct. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u323	Is position understood? I'm asking you to identify 185 amendments that the committee has supported. Please make up your mind. I can hear you. [[20:53:27]] For a hundred and Not supported. 186th, let me just put it on confirmation. Do you want to talk? Please turn on George's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u324	186th, another allowance with the help if you read the comment. It is proposed to reduce the tax on excise taxes paid for diesel fuel, which is used for diesel locomotives and self - discharges of more than 75 tons. What about less than 75 tons? Why 75? What is the basis for this? Once again, it's actually setting up the benefits, the hotels, the confetti, as you want to call them, which will vote on this bill. Request for confirmation and no support. If we want to give the benefits, if we want to reduce the pressure on business, let's put the whole business tax on the capital. There are statements by the President, there are statements by the deputies. Great, let's put this mechanism in place and not create benefits for one or the other categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u325	Colleagues, the author of the amendment, the national deputy of Dludenkov, require the word for 186 amendments. And yet again, I want to go to the budget room in front of us, and we want to review our view of this code, yes, and we're only going through the fundamental amendments. 186th, Dudenkov. Then there's Mrs. Nina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u326	Dear Mr. Andrey, you were told earlier that excise is a public tax that has a purpose. Appropriately, if it is paid to non - use of the infrastructure for which it is installed, the benefits should be appropriate. For a chicken, we have benefits. Why can’t there be benefits for others? Now, when we look at the tax on the capital outlay, I'm going to support you in all kinds of ways. But under the conditions indicated, the only way to upgrade the core funds, which are more than 70 percent, is by this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u327	Mrs. Nina, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u328	Dear colleagues, indeed, there would be a lot of problems, as you said, here encouragement would determine the tax on the capital. So I'm stressing that it's likely that these benefits or these investment attractive standards will only work for a year. Because I'm sure we're still going to vote for the tax on the capital, and he's going to start working on January 1st, 19th. So in the 18th year, all of these norms will only contribute to the development and profitability of these enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u329	We vote on the 186 amendments supported by the committee. He supported her. Please make up your mind. I hear I'm hearing everything right now, yes. Now the sixth goes, and then it's going to be the seventh. It's the sixth. [[20:56:24]] For-86 Eighty-six national deputies supported it, and it doesn't go through at this stage. 187th People's Deputy Amendment. The committee is supported. The staff member requires confirmation. Please turn on the microphone for George's colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u330	My colleagues, once again, just a list of the benefits, again the benefits. It is proposed to exempt taxation from the use of carbon methane. Guys, let's get this thing out of the way, I don't know, janitors, somebody else, let's get this whole thing out of the way. Once again, the only way to keep this from being absurd is to pay the tax on the capital. Everyone agreed that, in fact, before the new year, we cannot introduce it, but to vote before the new year, friends, does nothing to prevent it. The bill is written. Yeah, we've been discussing for two years now, and we've all been counting on it to be voted in the first half of this year. Sadly, this did not happen. And I have a very bad feeling that we may not be able to make it in the next year, and we're still going to have to prepare regulations. So let's, as business promised, this year we're going to vote on the tax on the capital and stop setting up the benefits for some businesses. And that's not the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u331	Please, I'm going to give the amendment to 187th, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u332	Mr. Andrew, it seems that a person with good qualifications and training in tax legislation has not read other legislation. We don't fix the benefits, it's already stipulated in the Ukrainian Coal Gas (Methane) Act. Before criticizing, please read the current legislation of Ukraine. And if you are so concerned about protecting the interests of investors, there is no need in one law to guarantee this benefit, and then when carrying out the pseudo-reform, it is unnecessary to deprive it. We're a stable investment attractive environment. Please, colleagues, this amendment is not an additional aid, it is designed to implement the existing provisions of the Ukrainian Law, in its current edition on coal-based gas (methane). And Mr. Giorgia, who is actually a provocative speaker, please don't support me. Support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u333	Colleagues, we are determined by amendment 187. The committee supported her. Please identify yourself. 187th. 187. [[20:59:04]] For the 180. 108 votes. No correction supported. Again? 190th. We've already reached her. 190th, this is the amendment of the Southern People's Deputy, which was counted by the Committee. Please, call for confirmation. 190th. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u334	I'm an honorary colleague from the Opposition Block who just commented on the expertise I want to say that, you know, comments will be even more professional in a situation where the table on a hundred pages won't be received 10 minutes before the review. Then it will be professional, with the plates, with the argument even more detailed. Now, the point is that you don't have to install "hotels" in a budget vote. There's a problem, there's a comprehensive bill, we solve it. In this case, when we're talking about 690 revisions another "hotel" in this case for airplane construction. And I'm proposing not to support it, but to focus on introducing tax on capital output and setting normal conditions for business in Ukraine and incentives for foreign investors to join Ukraine. We have to win this fight for capital, for investment, and we are competing with other states in this market. The sooner we stop setting preferences for one or the other subjects, and the more attractive the market rules are, the better our economy will grow. The request is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u335	Mrs. Nina, are you commenting or voting? Yes, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u336	Dear colleague, this is an active norm, not just by appearing, and we are technically clarifying just one word that is treated by taxpayers during this year in different ways. It's not a "hotel." And the tax on the capital out. Right now, the biggest fight for the tax on the capital is on our shoulders. That's why we're being taken into account that we're not looking at anything, my dear fellow, we shouldn't. Please calm down, the tax on the capital outlay can only be paid as of January 1, 2019. We still have 2018 to survive. And we're doing everything we can to get through it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u337	We're voting for 190 amendments. Colleagues, the committee supported her. I've got it. Please 190. The vote, please, is supported by the committee. [[21:01:35]] For-98 98 votes for. It's not coming through. 191st is the amendment of the Debate People's Deputies, which George requires for confirmation. 191st. I'm only asking you, fellows, to speak with no pins to each other. Please, 191st.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u338	I can't help but comment on previous comments, because they're addressing them personally. I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u339	I've turned to everyone. I'll give you my word. Please don't comment on the previous, be wise now, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u340	All right, I'll be wise.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u341	Let's make it right, and I'll interrupt everyone else, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u342	Okay. I'd like to thank you. I simply request that we be wise not to go out on our own, yes, but that we discuss the bill in detail. In this case, there are rules in the law that set limits for so-called offshore companies. What is written in this case. It is suggested that the requirement for non-residential tax status to be respected should be excluded. Tax is not low. It is expected to remove limits for offshores. Mr. Dudenkov's edit of the Opposition Block. I'm sorry, why are you doing this? We're all saying that we're fighting offshors, honourable deputies, please fight them, at last, and don't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u343	Debt mike, please. 191 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u344	Mr. Andrey, we're trying to fight the tax evasion that's taking place right now. So go to the Crucifixion, for example, and ask them what offshores they're interacting with when they're deploying their Eurobonds. When they were duly credited with the repatriation tax. As far as the substance of the amendment is concerned. Dear colleagues are indeed invited to exclude the corresponding sub-item. But it's an exception by agreeing with the Ministry of Finance, by the way. In order to distribute the exemption regime for all Eurobonds, they are located not only after 2013 but also for those placed before 2013. Because that list of offshore zones that was approved in transfer pricing, if you forgot Mr. Andria, was approved in September 2013. So this is actually a technical regulation that will distribute the set regime for Eurobonds by 2014. This is the way we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u345	I understand your position. Colleagues, I'm asking you to determine for amendment 191, which committee has been supported. I'd like to make a statement. Mrs. Nina, this is 191 revisions. Just so you know where we are. [[21:04:25]] For-98 Yeah, it was 197 already. Now 198 is also Musia's amendment. We've reached you at last, congratulations, your amendment, you can sound it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, this is also true of the government budget. And I ask you to pay attention to that, Minister of Finance, you're always looking for money that's not enough. The ad valorem rate, plus all cigarettes, because they say they're lobbying some cigarettes with a filter, other non-filter cigarettes, just setting the ad valorem rate at plus 3 percent, plus three points, will allow you to fill about 2 billion bracelets that are missing in our budget. That is why I am absolutely surprised by the position of both the committee and those deputies who do not vote for the real fulfillment of the state budget by preserving the health of Ukrainians. Because as a doctor, I absolutely assure you that any increase in taxes and excise taxes, which is a requirement, by the way, of our European Association, is not just an increase in excise duty by 20 percent. Also, ad valorem preserves the lives of a young generation, preserves the lives of people. So I ask you to support and vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u347	This is an amendment by the 198th National MP Musia, who was rejected by the committee. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[21:06:02]] For-48 She's not supported. I'm moving on the sidelines, colleagues. 207. Now, a minute, a minute, a minute. We're going back. 201th. Declined. Easy, Galasjuk. Please, please, Halasyuk, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u348	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear Irina Volodymyr, Reverend Irina Petrovna. We insist on taking this amendment into account because it foresees the removal of excise duty on the import of electric cars into Ukraine. We think it's very important, we have to do it now. Take a look around the world, they give subsidies for the purchase of electric cars, they release them from taxation. Why? Because it's clean air, it's the normal environment of the country, it's independence from imported fuel and diesel and gasoline and so on. This needs to be done today. Unfortunately, electric cars are more expensive today than conventional cars, but they are 15 times cheaper at a fraction in use. We need to make electric cars affordable and cheaper for Ukrainians so that they can buy them and make the country more modern, more innovative and greener. Let's subtract the excise tax, as we did with the removal of import duties two years ago, and we'll see the same positive result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u349	201 an amendment that has been rejected by the committee shall be put to the vote. I get it, silent questions, because we're still moving on the bill, according to the bill. Colleagues, my vision, ten minutes, it all depends on how we go about it. 201st, 201th amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[21:08:03]] For-96 96 votes are not enough. 207th. This is the amendment of the People's Deputy Dudenkova 207, which was counted by the Committee. National MP Andrey Zhurzyj requires that it be put on the stand. Please, Andrew George's microphone for 207.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u350	Colleagues, 207 amendment, according to the comment, proposes to extend the setting of VAT features for non-reversible assets purchased by 2014 to April 14, which are on 1 January 2017 in the occupied territories for other taxes. So once again, for tax, for profit, for tax, for profit, for profit, but here's a pretty interesting thing. Similarly, these norms are spreading; they were voted at the end of last year for the free economic zone of Crimea. And at the end of last year's vote, it was about war there, not all of them were able to get out, our businesses there, I understand. What's Crimea for now, my friends, in which Ukraine has some kind of free economic zone? Can Someone Explain? I think it's a pretty expensive thing, so I have to ask for confirmation and not support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u351	Please enable the Author of the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u352	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. First of all, in 207 directions, I'm not proposing to distribute a special taxation regime for the free economic zone of Crimea, first of all. Read the suggestions carefully, Mr. Andrew. And second of all, it's about goods. Yes, indeed, there is a special tax regime for non-produced assets and buildings. But if it is not possible to remove them from the ATO area of the building, there are warehouses that are also unexportable. And that's why it makes sense, so I suggest you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u353	Colleagues, please, the 207 amendments that the committee supported, we put to the vote, to define, the committee voted in favour. Please identify yourself. [[21:10:17]] For 106 No correction supported. 208 amendment is the People's Deputy of Guerrega, it has been taken into account in part, the People's Deputy of Zhurjei requires confirmation. Do you need a microphone? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u354	When Mr. Dudenkov comments on the previous amendment and says he didn't apply to Crimea, I'm reading in the right column here, so to add 38.10 to the "free economic zone of Crimea." This can only be said of one thing: If a person did not serve, the quality of the work in which this committee was prepared is quite relative if it were. I understand why? Because there's no time, but then I don't understand how the hall has to deal with all those charges. Regarding 208 amendments, it also extends if the regime introduced by paragraph 38.11 "to the free economic zone of Crimea" is inappropriate, in my opinion. So I'm asking you to put it to a vote and not support it, and then give me the floor at 209. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u355	We are voting for the 208 amendments that the committee has supported, please identify yourself. Oh, I'm sorry, it was Sergei's repair. 208th, Geregie, I'm sorry, colleague, I'm sorry. [[21:11:44]] Z-93 people's deputies. Not supported. From the next amendment to Debenkova 209, the same. Likewise, it is counted, the national deputy of Georges requires words. Please, his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u356	When this rule was voted last year, it was the word "economy" that was fundamentally principled. Today, actually, this rule of law and the word from this norm "for doing business" are proposed to remove, thereby nullifying those norms that were voted down last year. Therefore, the request for confirmation is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u357	Please, Dudenkov, the author of the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u358	Good evening, once again, dear colleagues, the point is that my amendment is aimed not to undermine the vote that took place last year, but rather to improve that norm. Because the exclusion of the term "economic" means the distribution of a special regime to non-profit organizations that are not doing business and whose purpose is not to receive income. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u359	Colleagues, we define 209 amendments to the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. The committee supported her. [[21:13:15]] For-93 Not supported. 213 amendments, this is the People's Deputy Krishina. She was counted. 213. And it calls for the confirmation of Georges. A microphone, please. 213.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u360	The edit, once again, is one of the systems that offers us a locking system to stop and return to test mode. Therefore, there is a request not to support or allow in the meantime operators who may misuse the scheme’s tax credit to carry out their purposes. To confirm and not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u361	I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 213. The committee supported her. Please identify yourself. My colleagues, we have very few changes left, actually. I asked the secretariat to make some announcements so that people would be able to get back from the offices, the towers, and the buffer. [[21:14:20]] Z-87 She's not supported. Next 229th Amendment, People's Deputy Dove. You asked her to be confirmed. This is the amendment of the Holy One, the national deputy, it was partly taken into account. 229th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u362	Could you give me a second, please? Dear colleagues, you know, we are demanding in our society to abide by the laws of Ukraine, to pay taxes without letup. But I propose to each of us to put a mirror in front of each of us, because we have to be a model for implementing Ukrainian legislation, and for us the basis is the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Again, this amendment is in violation of article 116, and this amendment contravenes article 7 of the Tax Code, which regulates that any issue of taxation cannot be changed by any law other than laws that contain exclusive provisions for amending the Code and, or by the position that lays down responsibility for the breach of tax laws. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to support this assignment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u363	Please turn on the microphone to the author of this repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u364	Dear colleagues, what is it? In plain language, in nine months, the only business in Ukraine is the Mironian Bread Product, which received a total grant of a billion 200 million dollars. At the same time, the company paid off dividends of $80 million, in fact, the entire grant went to the owner for dividends. So how much can we support a high-income business based on cattle, shepherding, and why animalry? Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u365	We heard the author’s explanation, the denial of the Dove Authority. And I'm asking you to identify the room for amendment 229 that the committee supported. Please make up your mind. [[21:16:38]] For-97 She's not supported. Next, the amendment of 230 people's deputies of Ostrikova. It was taken into account in fact, but the Dove’s national deputy requires that it be put in place for confirmation. The Microphone is the Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u366	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, I'd very much like the market and competition to be the engine of our economy, not some sort of deterrence factor that will in any way make anti-discrimination norms in the legislation of any enterprise subject. This rule sets an additional 20 percent limit, so I suggest that you don't support the bill and I ask you not to vote on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u367	Please, Mrs. Ostrickova's microphone, which is the author of this amendment 230. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u368	Dear colleagues, I would like to tell the whole of Ukraine why it has become possible that two agrohöldings have received billions of dollars of donations for a chicken? This happened because it was in the government decree that, contrary to the provisions of the Tax Code, the procedure for calculating the base for subsidies was distorted. This right is therefore proposed for a chicken to set a limit — not more than 20 percent of the total amount of subsidies. And most importantly, it's proposed to change the way in which the subsidy base is calculated, so that those crops that have both non-dwelling crops and wetting animals are finally allowed to submit documents for receipt of VAT quasi-returns. And those who are now collapsing are clearly lobbying for the interests of those holding companies that have chosen almost half of the total amount of agricultural subsidies this year. Thank you. Support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u369	Colleagues, we heard an explanation of the amendment. I emphasize that the committee voted in favour of this amendment, and I ask that it be determined by its vote. [[21:18:49]] For a hundred and 145 votes, no change. Colleagues, look at 141 and now we've got the amendment, we've got them all. 241. Mr. George, 241. We only have 248 amendments, which is the last. And then we'll be back by the '80s at the request of George. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, don't yell, I can hear it. I'm asking the secretariat to call a colleague back to the hall, because in five minutes, we're literally going to have a vote for this bill. And now, at the request of National Deputy Jury, I'm asking for confirmation of Amendment 241. This is the amendment of the people's representative of Stasuk. It was essentially taken into account. But Mr. Georges demands that it be put in place for confirmation. 241. Hurry up, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u370	The amendment proposes not to apply to local self-government decisions one of the key principles of tax legislation – the principle of stability which. I mean, how could that be? So today in practice is really with the adoption of change, what the Council, the Supreme Council, does not adhere to the principle of the stability of tax legislation, according to local taxes local councils actually take decisions after July 1. But by violating the key principle of tax legislation, tax payers, small, medium -sized businesses that you are experiencing are able to sue for such decisions and thereby adhere to the principle of tax stability. What does the Supreme Council propose? The Supreme Council suggests in these decisions that we don't give a shit about this principle, we don't give a shit about the small, medium-sized business we care about, and we say, "Maybe we don't apply it, we're going to take the law here a week before the new year, and you're going to pay more taxes." Request not to uphold this norm and to place it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u371	Colleagues, we now give the floor to the author of the amendment, Mr. Stashuk. Amendment 241. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u372	Dear colleagues, the content of this amendment actually relates to the following. Any changes that apply to local taxes and disputes can only be made after six months, which means that in a situation where they are tied to minimum wages and the minimum wage we have changed in October, for example, the last time, since January 1, these rates will just go up. And we're going to give a very bad service to the local small business. That's why I have a request for Mr. George. It's not too late to say no, because there's no problem. The local councils are regulating all of this. The problem is if we don't approve this, and local taxes will increase according to the rise in minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u373	241 The amendment, according to the request of the National MP, is valid for confirmation. My colleagues, I would like to point out that the committee voted in favour of this amendment. I'm asking the room to be determined, 241 revisions. [[21:22:18]] For-166 We didn't make it. Colleagues, we're definitely not going to be able to find another 46 votes. I ask you to do it next. Make an announcement that we have 2 amendments left, really 2 amendments, and we may not be able to vote for the code. Please return to the hall. Now the amendment of the 243 People’s Deputy of Jujanina is being submitted. Nina Petrovna, 243 amendments, your amendment. She was accepted by the committee. The National MP, Georges, demands that it be put in place for confirmation. 243, I'm hurrying up the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u374	I'm reading a comment on the amendment. It is proposed to extend the rules on the precision of the aid for aircraft construction for the reporting period 2017. So to extend the benefit that we haven't accepted yet, I'm sorry, December 7, 2017, and start it on January 1, 2017. Hey, guys, how's that? What stability, what are we talking about? The norm is voted in December and should be applied from January. Well, I don't think that's appropriate. And ask for confirmation and no support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u375	Mrs. Nina, will you comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u376	That's the problem. The point is, the first deputy head of the committee doesn't go to committee meetings at all. And eight days we worked 15-16 hours, he was gone! And that's why I don't know any amendments. Because, of course, man couldn't read it. The current standard of benefits does not change anything. It only specifies that the standard applied by the tax authority now should be formulated more precisely. She asked for the tax. So, if you'll excuse me, go to the board meeting for a start.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u377	Colleagues, please don't. So, what do you think, it's normal to have a meeting in a dress like this? Well, we're tired of the lobby, too, well, respect our work. I'm now putting a request on colleague Jury 243 for a confirmation amendment. I would like to point out that the committee voted in favour. This is Nina Petrovna's 243th amendment. Please identify yourself. [[21:24:51]] For 205 205 votes. Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down right now. 205 votes for. Now for the announcement, the announcement by the Head of the Supreme Council. Then we have two more amendments, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u378	Colleagues, pay attention. There are two amendments left, so in three or four minutes we'll move on to making a decision. I very much ask all the heads of factions and very much ask all the national MPs to come into the hall now and prepare for the vote, in a few minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. I very much ask everyone to take a responsible vote and come into the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u379	Yes, colleagues, listen, first of all, to you, Mr. Oleg, no one mentioned anything. Now, now. Look, Mr. Oleg, don't shout. I can hear you. Look, I have one more request. Let's not mention anyone in person. We're not discussing each other, we're discussing revisions. Now we have two more revisions -- 99th and 80th. I remember, and don't scream, please. On which national MPs insisted, we return. Then 30 seconds is the line, then Mr. Lachak is still on the table, and we move on to the vote. Amendment number 80. This is an amendment that Mr. Georges requires to be put to the vote for confirmation. I'm asking him to give him one and a half minutes, 30 seconds of which will be his replica, and a minute of that, that's his speech on amendment number 80. This is an amendment by the national deputy Krishina, who was counted by the committee. Oh, and Easy on the same amendment. I've already announced Mr. George. You can't. Please. Whoever it is, George is whoever it is. And you're not anybody, you're Easy. You're not anybody either, it was incorrect on my part. You're the hurry, you're the easy one. I'm sorry. Please, two minutes for two lines and one correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u380	I thank you, Your Honor, for presiding over the meeting. There is no problem; the attitude in this Parliament is, unfortunately, equal, more equal. As for the 80 revisions, it's one of the system rights that applies to the blocking of tax slips, and I'm asking you not to support it. As for the committee head's replica, I would like to remind her that in three years, Mrs. Nina Jujanin, you can understand that you are not marketers. There are no slaves here who are to obey you. And the first deputy head of the committee starts to go to the committee meeting when the committee stops looking at garbage and begins to look at important things, to carry out the President's mandate to fight offshore companies, which was given a year ago, on which the committee was working, to draft a bill on combating offshore companies, to draft a bill with the National Bank on controlled foreign companies. I want to ask you, where is this? And nobody needs that. The deputy will attend meetings when the committee does not pass a bill on the financial police for a year or a half and then send it to another law enforcement committee within a year and a half. Now, walk on. And promise the business that she'll introduce some kind of bill. Excuse me, what was a year and a half? Why didn't you do it? There are a lot of important systemic things that the committee can do if the head and those who run the committee want to do so. So I have a very large request, as my time has been asked not to write an essay, please write them to your subjects, to work professionally, not to go personal, professionally. And I'm going to go to the committee when this committee is looking at professional bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u381	I want to go back to asking you again: don't insult each other. Well, colleagues, we're looking at such important bills, and you're wrong about that. Please, I now demand that two national deputies, Láška and Žuržija, amend number 80 of the National MP. For confirmation. The committee supported her. I'm asking you to identify yourself. Please. And let us not exchange kindness, for it only prolongs. 80th, yeah, and then Kucher. It's the '80s. You didn't talk to her. Andrew. No, Andrew, it's so unfair. [[21:29:30.]] For-164 164 votes. It is not supported by the amendment. Look, it's People's Deputy Kucher, Amendment 99th. I've honestly made all the adjustments. 99th National MP Kutcher. This is the 99th Amendment. You know what this is all about? That's where it goes. This is the National Deputy of the Chicken, and it was counted by the Committee. Please turn on the microphone for Kucher. 99th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u382	People's MP Kutcher. Please place 99 on confirmation. The norm of this edit is to create a single database of reports and evaluation. The management of this base is approved by the State Property Fund, the authorized site is authorized by the State Property Fund, the approved joint decision of the State Property Fund. And the following year, we're going to have a normative monetary valuation of land, and all agrarians will make a friendly move to the State Property Fund, before we go to the State Department. I propose not to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u383	So now the author of the 99th Amendment, Maxime Chicken. Please, the microphone. Just so everyone knows what's going on because they're already confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u384	Dear fellow national MPs, I'd like to take off the fears that have just been heard in the hall. The thing is, this amendment is completely out of touch with the agrarians, absolutely. This is directed and directed against so-called black realtors, who are undervalued for real estate. And as for the assessment of the land area itself. This is how it regulates this issue by individual sectoral legislation. There is an appropriate Land Assessment Act and this right is not distributed to agrarians and landowners. The question is, and I think Mr. Kucher and some people just didn't get the hang of it. You have to leave the paper, it's against the black realtors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u385	Mr. Kucher, do you insist that you be satisfied with the explanation? I can't see you. Mr. Kutcher?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u386	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u387	Are you insisting? Following Mr. Kucher's insistence, we place on confirming amendment 99, which the committee has supported. I'm asking you to determine 99 amendments. Please make up your mind. Yes, colleagues, look, we're going to go back to the amendments endlessly, it's unfair and unfair to do the work. That's why. [[21:32:12]] For 112 112 is now for 99 revisions. I promised to make all the adjustments that Oleg Lazko didn't hear, and there I couldn't make a sound, give him the word Lazko now to Oleg. And then the 44th amendment, which is required by the National Deputy of Georges. 44th Amendment, it requires. Oh, 244, I'm sorry. All of it. Now – Easy, then – you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u388	Oleg Lazko. I am addressing Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. For our team, the key is economic development, the country's energy independence, the welfare of Ukrainians. I'm asking you as the government manager to support our proposals so that for new wells to extract more gas at a depth of more than 5,000 meters, the rent rate is 6 percent. I ask you to support our proposal to cancel the import VAT and import excise on electric vehicles so that Ukrainians can buy more cheap electric cars. I am asking you, Mr. Prime Minister, to support the proposal of the Radical Party team to schedule three years of import VAT on new technological equipment for modernization, to increase productivity, to reduce energy efficiency, to pay more wages and to pay less for energy. Our task is energy dependency, modernization, new markets, work, wages for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u389	Well, that was a generalized speech. The Prime Minister will then take the floor and answer your question. Colleagues, I just wasn't getting my bearings, Mr. George, not 44th, but 240th. Yeah, where did you go? A colleague of Georges spoke of a 244 amendment. This is Amendment 244, the last. The final amendment of our Codex of People’s Deputies, Krishina, was taken into account, and George, the National MP, demands that Krishina, 244, be confirmed as the final amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The committee supported her. Please identify yourself. Nina, 244th, please identify yourself. Oleg. Dear Mr. Oleg. [[21:34:53]] For-183 183 votes. Not supported. I'm begging you now. Colleagues, we're done looking at the amendments to the Tax Code. Now, we're going to ask the committee head to sum it up. And then, to sum up the Prime Minister. And we'll go to the vote. Mr. Oleg, please don't stop me from considering the bill. Please, Mrs. Nina, 244 more amendments. Mrs. Nina, 244, she was ruined, too. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u390	Mrs. Nina, I'm asking for a break right now. My colleagues, I remind you that after every long bill, it was both educational and medical, and pension reform, the committee head sums up and tells you what amendments we need to go back to so that the bill is not balanced. This is especially important when it comes to the country’s main financial document. So, Mrs. Nina, I'm asking you now, when you're going to say the summary word, to name the list of rights to which, to your conviction, you have to go back in order to have a balanced bill. And I give the floor to Nina Petrovni Jujanini. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u391	Dear colleagues, I started by saying that in fact, the changes that were being made to the people's deputies were only stimulating production in Ukraine. Finally, we took note of the necessary things that we asked even last year to take into account, and we were unable to do so. Now, the amendments that apply to administration were much less, so we were really looking at quite a little bit, with all the experts who were involved in the committee, all the amendments that were made. So to balance this bill, please vote and support the following amendments: 8, 80, 99, 116, 133, 135, 137, 179, 180, 184, 185, 187, 190, 191, 207, 208, 213, 230, 243 and 244.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u392	So, colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Colleagues, consult. So, Nina Petrovna, please. Please finish the report, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u393	See, 230 amendments that regulate the new system for determining agricultural subsidies. If there is no resource, this system will not work. Okay, if you react that way, it's the right norm, but you're reacting completely wrong. We're taking down the 230, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u394	So, colleagues, the report is complete. Let's go to the vote. Can we vote? Colleagues, we can't vote while you're here. I'm asking everyone to go back to work, please go into the hall and take jobs. As long as the MPs explain. Is Pinzenic in the hall, Paul Pinzenik? Please, one minute Pinzenik. I'm going to give the premiere. I'm going to give the premiere. Please, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u395	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u396	My colleagues, you have a very emotional discussion. Thus, national deputies, national deputies, demand that Nina Petrovna read again so that everyone can hear clearly and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u397	I am. No, Vladimir Borisovich. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u398	Paul Pinzenik, please come to me. Paul! Nina Petrovna, I beg you to stop this emotional commotion among yourselves. Please take and call, Nina Petrovna, the list of amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u399	Let's re-vote now. Not to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u400	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Please leave only the committee head behind the rostrum. Dear colleagues, please unlock the rostrum, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u401	So, colleagues, please. The discussion was earlier during the discussion of the bill. I ask you to stop now and allow the committee head to finish his speech. I'm asking you to let the committee head finish the speech. And please take your jobs, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u402	Dear colleagues, will you count the revisions again? 8, 80, 99, 116, 133, 135, 137, 179, 180, 184, 185, 187, 190, 191 207, 208, 209, 213, 241, 243 and 244.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u403	Thank you. Colleagues, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u404	I'm asking you to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u405	I'm asking you to go back to work. I'm asking you not to stand by the rostrum. Please, everyone, sit down and don't bother. do not interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u406	I'm asking you to give me your word on electric cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u407	And please, one minute, Prime Minister, and please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u408	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear Mr. Head! Look, we put these laws in Parliament a month ago, worked hard to find the right solution, for what? For the development of the national economy, and in that context, I would like to emphasize that we fully support the agrarian sector. We're supporting the extraction of Ukrainian gas today, so just think about it, we're buying gas abroad today, when Ukraine has the most. One of the largest in Europe. One of the largest gas deposits in Europe. Every winter, the Ukrainian government was sitting in Moscow to determine the price of gas for the current year, we never have to sit and ask someone for gas, we have to get their Ukrainian gas, so nor 12 and nor 6 is absolutely acceptable. We're going to be an exporting country, and that's going to involve investment. Besides, I'd like to emphasize, and what's important today is to ensure the modernization of the national economy, we need to update the foundations of the enterprise funds, the equipment, and that's why we're putting in a 24-month schedule. This is the position of all the factions, today Oleg Lazko talked about it and made it repeatedly, such proposals may well be supported. And one other thing, colleagues, what's the problem, is that we're making electric cars in the country today? They're environmental, they're safer, and so I suggest you go back and add to what Nina Petrovna said, another 201 and 183 amendments. Let's vote for her proposals and what I put in and move on, we're going to adopt the national budget. [[Congrats]] The economy will be developing who, in order not to speak and not to look for artificial reasons, will have to break this process. Thank you and please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u409	Thank you. Let's get to the vote, please. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting for the proposal to go back to the amendments that were written under the transcript by the head of the committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna, as well as amendment 183 and 201. Who supports this proposal to return to those amendments, please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[21:45:14]] For 233 We're back. Now I'm voting in favour of all the amendments that were named under the transcript, as well as 201 and 183. Please vote, please support. Vote. If you'll excuse me, please vote in favour. [[21:45:39]] For 234 Decision taken. And now I'm putting a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Balance of Budget Revenues in 2018 (6776-d) on second reading and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support me, colleagues! Please vote, please support. Vote! Each voice has a weight. Vote! [[21:46:14]] For 252 The law is passed. And, colleagues, so we can move on to a key law today, to the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine. Thus, colleagues, the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2018 (number 7000) is being considered under the special procedure provided for in the Ukrainian Rules. And I want to stress that it's not the last law, we still have the resources of the Supreme Council, because it's stipulated by law that it should be dealt with in conjunction with the budget. So after the budget, we'll also look at the cost. And I'm going to ask the camera to distribute the jewels before the start of its consideration. We are now going into the draft State Budget Act, and I invite you to the report of Finance Minister Daniluk Alexander Alexandrovich. And for his performance, I ask you to determine five minutes. Five minutes? Seven, he's asking the Treasury Secretary for seven minutes. And I'll give you seven minutes for the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u410	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! For the second year in a row, we are timely introducing a draft state budget to the government and Parliament. It's not easy, because not only did we want to follow all the legal terms, but we also wanted to develop a quality, effective and as realistic document as possible, which will guide the country's development. But meeting the terms is our principle of position, because the timely submission of the 2018 budget adds transparency to the budgetary process and increases confidence and strengthens the responsibility of the participants for the quality of the accepted document. We've given everyone who wants enough time to get to know the document and, above all, to you, the honourable national MPs. This year we developed a budget based on a midterm budget resolution. I find this to be a major breakthrough because there has never been such a breakthrough in Ukraine before. We've introduced a new model of fiscal policy -- medium-term budget planning. In doing so, we are putting the country's economic development plan ahead of schedule, that is to say, we are oriented towards the future, creating the basis for systematic, profound reforms. We are also strengthening budgetary discipline, which contributes to reducing deficits to 2.5 percent in 2018. The amount of the deficit corresponds to the lighthouse of the joint programme with the International Monetary Fund. The budget for 2018, the State Budget project for 2018, has now been developed to take into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council and was approved by the Government on December 1, 2017. We've processed all the regulations and proposals of the people's deputies, and we've tried to take most of them into account, based on the priority of spending and the ability of the income part of the budget. What we wanted to do in the development of the budget was to be balanced, and we were able to achieve that. The income sources of the budget are sufficient to finance all the priority needs of the state. Budget revenues reflect what revenue the economy will actually be able to deliver next year without a total increase in taxes. First of all, I'm going to say that next year, there's going to be a 19 percent increase in revenue, and it's going to be over 1 trillion dollars. In the preparation of the draft State Budget Act 2018, the government retained the priorities set out in the draft budget for the first reading until the second reading by the government. This includes accelerating economic growth by creating a favourable investment climate, maintaining macroeconomic stability and continuing fiscal consolidation, implementing health and education reforms, improving public social support, implementing pension reform, developing road structure, combating corruption, and so forth. We have put into the budget the financing of all the major reforms that should benefit people and the economy of the country. In addition, in preparing the budget for second reading, we have further strengthened our priorities financially and taken into account additional expenses to address a number of priority and urgent issues. We have increased social protection for the population, granted benefits and housing subsidies to the population of almost 16 billion dollars. At the same time, we and the National Deputies and the Head of the Professional Committee, Mr. Spiowakovsky, have agreed that the NZI II level of State and Municipal Property Accreditation, which are the structural divisions of Level III-IV, will be financed by the State Budget. Another 375 was foreseen for the updating of the NZI II-IV material and technology base of the accreditation level of MON. That's right. With the support of the animal industry, we have increased the expenditure of the State Budget General Fund by 1.7 billion dollars. The 2018 budget also provides support to local communities, including the financial resources of local budgets for 2018 as a result of the second reading revision of the budget project, increased by more than 35 billion dollars and cost more than 556 billion dollars. Local budgets are projected to increase by almost 3 billion dollars. The volume of transfers that are being made. The state budget has increased by more than 29 billion dollars. I want to point out that the budget is balanced, is realistic, the additional expenditure is provided by increasing the income portion of the budget. And most importantly, this budget allows for efficient use of taxpayers' costs. It's a budget for development and growth that's set for perspective. I thank the Minfin team for their professional work, thank you, National MPs, for their openness and constructive dialogue. Thank the Prime Minister and the members of the government for their cooperation and support. Thanks also to experts for their objective criticism and suggestions. Please support the draft State Budget Act for 18 years, which depends on how the country lives next year. Because the budget you've accepted is a guarantee of stability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u411	Excuse me, Mr. Alexander, we have a chapter called "The Secretary of Finance's Answers to Questions." And that's why you're going to have to answer to Parliament for everything. I'm asking the deputies to sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. In three minutes, that's two or three questions. Please, please. Oh, he wants out. Please, please. Please hold the recording, three minutes to ask. Please, Andrew Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u412	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. I have a question for the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. Because I also applied my budget bills, unfortunately, they were not nearly counted. And the questions are very short. Why are we today predicting so much expenditure on architecture, on building some cultural buildings and so on, and at the same time we don't predict, deny in my rights, don't anticipate absolutely money for the rehabilitation of children with disabilities, for the treatment of people abroad, for the denial of both rights? Because we now realize that people simply die under the Ministry of Health. Children who do not receive the necessary rehabilitation simply have an incomprehensible way of life, and their parents simply have to beg and marry, in fact, through charitable funds and so forth. Can you tell me what's more important to us, the construction or the children who are dying right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u413	Thank you, thank you for asking. I'll just answer the numbers. We have funded children’s treatment abroad for 2018 at the level of this year. Of course, if possible, and we'll see after the first quarter, we'll be looking for an opportunity to increase additional funding for these important needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u414	Thank you. The Queen's giving the question to the national deputy Husak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u415	Dear Minister of Finance! One of the problems facing Ukraine today is its constant debt on government mines. Now it's more than 500 million dollars again. The draft budget did not contain an article on State support for the cost of coal production. I have a question, did it appear in this version of the budget? What is the amount to be paid for the salaries, for the repayment of the government’s debt on the mines? And how is the government going to pay the wages on government mines in 2018?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u416	Really. Thank you for asking. Indeed, such a problem has existed for many years and has been in debt on wages. Because the money that was spent on wages was somehow transferred to other spheres. After that, in fact, when money was spent, there was not enough money to pay. And we had to look for a new resource. The following year, we put a billion three hundred to reform the coal sector. And this is a complex program that will solve all of our problems in this area with good governance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u417	And the last question from Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u418	Please give the floor to Deputy Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u419	Please, Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u420	Mr. Minister of Finance, please tell me what the Ministry of Finance specifically led you to do during 2017 to close those holes that are currently on customs duty, where the whole smuggling syndicates, customs sites, minimizers, are already showing movies in all media. And why aren't you included in the revenue of the State Budget in 2018? You're not going to close those smuggling schemes that you're going to have the customs office run by you, are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u421	Thank you, Mr. Ostrikova, for asking. We have a general principle in budget planning -- planning what we can guarantee. Of course, we will fight the shadow. And all that's going to come out of the shadow is going to be the extra revenue of the budget, which I'm sure will be used effectively. And also when you change the budget for the next year, you will have an additional resource that you can effectively distribute. What was done? A lot has been done. It's an initiative like an open window, and others. But as you know, the problem is not just in one customs office but also in law enforcement agencies, which unfortunately sometimes do not do their job. And finally, we have holes, some other problems on the border. This is a complex issue that needs to be addressed in a complex way – both customs and law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u422	So the time spent on questions is over. And I now invite you to a report by the Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Sergio Ivanovich Melnik on taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council in the draft budget prepared for the second reading. Will you have five minutes, Sergey Ivanovich? That's enough. Please turn on the microphone in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u423	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs discussed the draft State Budget Bill 2018, which was further elaborated by the Cabinet of Ministers for the second reading. First of all, the state of inclusion of the Supreme Council's budgetary conclusions in the amended bill was analysed by the Government. In particular, with regard to Chapter I of the Budget Conclusions, it is worth noting that out of 59 proposals, 47 are included, part 6 is included, and 6 proposals are not included. For chapter III of the budget conclusions of 79 assignments, 26 are included, 12 are partially counted, and 41 are not included. In particular, the most painful issues about local budgets are: the remaining financial provision for citizens' housing and utility benefits at the expense of the state budget. And you see there's an increase of 15 billion and the benefits, and in addition, subsidies to pay for residential services. Next. The reverse grant is based on the actual horizontal adjustment mechanism, the fiscal capacity of the respective local budgets. Moreover, when calculating the basic subsidy and the index of taxation, the population that is temporarily resettled is taken into account. This also allowed for an increase in the basic grant. There has been an increase in the amount of education subsidy to pay for the work of teachers of higher education institutions at the level of accreditation in part of the total general secondary education. There was also a slight increase in medical subsidies. Direct inter-budget relations have been established in addition to 277 new unified communities. At the same time, the proposals of the Supreme Council for the provision of expenditure in the 2018 State Budget project for the implementation of the Drinking Water programme, housing for war invalids, internally displaced persons who have participated in the ATO and who are persons with disabilities of war or who participate in hostilities are taken into account to support affordable housing to protect the rights of the hostages of the aggressor country. There were also two additional positions yesterday: the difference in tariffs and, as already noted, the cost for coal miners to pay off, a billion 300 -- debt repayment. This includes most of the budget proposals proposed by the Committee on Additional Sources of Income to Increase Budget Expenditures in the Revised Bill, including 4G Mobile Licenses, the costs listed by the National Bank for Excess of Expenditure, Confiscated Costs, Part of the Income of State Enterprises. On the basis of the consideration of the amended bill, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council an amended bill of 7,000 thousand to be adopted on second reading and in general as a bill taking into account the budget committee's proposals for amendments to this bill agreed with the Ministry of Finance listed in the Committee's letter. At the same time, considering that a new edition of article 24 had been read in the consideration of the amendments to the Codex Budget, I would like to give the floor to the head of the Education Committee of Spiowakowski Alexander Volodymyrovich to clarify the new edition of article 24, since it was read incompletely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u424	Thank you. There's only one minute left before the show. And I'm going to use this moment to read Singer's position clarification. Please. You stay in the rostrum, there'll be more questions. I'll be right there. A minute of singing, and you stay in the rostrum. Please, for clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u425	Dear colleagues, we voted on the draft of the Budget Code and should have voted on it now. I'm once again under the transcript, Andry Volodymyrovich, I'm going to read that we've aligned the text with the Ministry of Finance in order to balance everything. First. Article 24 of the bill states in such an edition "to establish that the costs of training professionals in higher education institutions I-II levels of State ownership accreditation, which have the status of individual legal persons defined in Appendix 10 to this Act, starting on 1 January 2018, are derived from the district budgets and budgets of Kiev. In the event of the adoption by the City Council of Area Cities, the District Centre of the decision to pay for services for the preparation of professionals in higher education institutions of the I-II level of State ownership accreditation, which have the status of individual legal persons defined in Appendix 10 to this Act, which are located in the territory of the marked.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u426	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u427	Such expenditure shall be effected from the budget of the city indicated. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure that the transfer from the state municipal property of the higher educational institutions I-II levels of State ownership accreditation, which have the status of individual legal persons defined in Appendix 10 to this Act, is in accordance with the established order. Take measures to prevent closure or re-profile during 2018 – 21 years of age, higher education institutions of I-II levels of State ownership accreditation, which have the status of individual legal persons defined in Appendix 10 to this Act. Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Culture, along with higher educational institutions I-II and III-IV levels of State ownership accreditation by 1 June 2018, decide on the appropriateness of the establishment of higher education institutions of the I-II level of accreditation, which have the status of individual legal persons, to the higher educational institutions of the II-IV level.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u428	Give me a chance to finish, I asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u429	As structural units, the decision to go to higher education institutions I-II levels of State ownership accreditation, which have the status of individual legal persons, to the senior educational institutions III-IV levels of State ownership accreditation, is accepted by the labour groups of such institutions and their founders and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the monthly term. Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, together with higher educational institutions III-IV levels in State ownership accreditation, which include higher educational institutions I-II levels of State ownership accreditation without the status of individual legal persons. Provide, as an exception to the provisions of sub-paragraph (c) of Part One of Article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, for the implementation of the budget and within the limits of the funds provided for by the higher education institutions III-IV for the accreditation of expenditure for the training of professionals in higher education institutions I-II for the accreditation of state-owned property without the status of individual legal persons of 1 January 2018 and in higher education institutions I-II for the accreditation of state-owned property, which have been part of the higher education institutions III-IV for the accreditation of State-owned property of 1 September 2018 to the district councils, the Kiev City Council, the district and the Kiev City administrations in the formation, approval and implementation of the corresponding budgets. Priority should be given to channelling the cost of services from the training of professionals in higher education institutions at first and second levels of State ownership accreditation, which have the status of individual legal persons defined in Appendix 10 to this Act. The other one. In view of the decision to revise the new edition of article 24 of the draft State Budget Act 2018, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will adjust the amount of education subsidies for 2018 by reducing the expenditure envisaged for general and secondary education at the first and second levels of accreditation, which are the structural subdivisions of the GNI of the third and fourth levels of accreditation, and the corresponding increase in expenditure under CPC 1801060, 2201160, 2301070. Third. In Appendix 10 to the draft law, namely, the list of education establishments that are transferred, which are transferred for funding from local budgets, to exclude higher education institutions of the first and second levels of accreditation without the status of individual legal persons who are part of higher education institutions of the third and fourth levels of accreditation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u430	Thank you. We've already voted for it, but it's also necessary to vote in the budget. And so thank you very much for reading that I can use the transcript to sound your amendment and I think this room will always support education. Now, three minutes of questions to the deputy chairman of the committee, Sergio Ivanovich Melnik. Please record the question. The Husak, the Opposition Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u431	Dear fellows, dear head! I'd like to go back to the question of the wages of miners. First, the debt of wages in Ukraine to miners did not take place for 10 years, from 2004 to 2014 and returned with the arrival of the government of Yatsenuk. I'd still like to ask, I'm not convinced by the Minister of Finance's answer, I'd like to ask you. These costs, they're actually set to pay off the debt on wages or some kind of mythical coal restructuring that keeps them from getting to the miners? And will the miners eventually see their money, or do you have confidence in it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u432	Thank you. These costs are foreseen under the 1101590 measures and the domestic production of coal and the further reform of the State coal sector, 1 billion 300 and the reduction in the cost of loans, are 1101580 building loans and technical refurbishment for state-owned enterprises. A total of 1 billion 300 dollars 300 million dollars, 1 billion 300 million dollars, which will enable them to be used for the stated goals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u433	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u434	Please pass the word to Mrs. Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u435	Sir, this government budget contained a great deal of risks and threats to local budgets and to locals. I'd like to clarify, because of Self-Help's efforts, before the second reading, the government corrected its own mistakes regarding the reverse grant, the benefits and the debt for residential services. I would like to make it clear to you, as a representative of the committee, that there are still risks to the costs of local communities, in particular how is the financing of medical subsidies and costs, the wages of our medics, which my colleague, Irina Sisoyenko, is struggling with throughout 2017? What are the risks to local communities, to the cost of local residents, and to the preservation of financial decentralization?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u436	Thank you. In fact, I said, by virtue of the benefits. A reverse grant has also been returned to an active mechanism. But given the fact that 277 new unified territorial communities have entered into direct inter-budget relations, now that they compare the first option and the final version, they will be in a separate minus because the tax capacity index has influenced. And what we've added to internally displaced persons is counted. I think there's still, and we've had a suggestion that, in fact, with the goal of stimulating, further uniting communities to make us a basic grant, not 80 percent to the ratio of 0.9 of the marginal index, but even a hundred. I think it'll be serious support. The next question also worked. The government divided by primary health care to operate and operate a mechanism that could be phased into a new funding mechanism. But there is a certain imbalance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u437	Thank you. And the final question, please turn on the microphone, Zviku Ljubomir Lvivitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u438	Please give the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u439	I have a question, please tell me, what did Ukrainian medical personnel do to the government and parliament? Why exactly this year Ukraine is the only state where both the cleaning woman and the guard and the doctor receive the minimum wage. There is no such thing in any state. This year, you led the medics to the fact that they regularly walked under the walls of government and parliament with their hands stretched out. As a result, a huge number of top-skilled doctors and nurses have left the medical facilities of Ukraine. This year, which was never raised by medical tariffs, Self-help demanded an additional 4 billion dollars over the year, just to pay medical workers. In the 2018 budget, you continue to commit crimes against those who save Ukrainians every hour of their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u440	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u441	In fact, if, after education, we were able to reduce this ratio by at least one tariff rate rate, then in health care. Yes, the health situation has, unfortunately, remained unchanged. And I think the results of the first quarter of next year are one of the main issues that will need to be addressed in order to at least change the ratio and make sure that there is no injustice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u442	Thank you. The time spent on questions is over, and now we're going to move on to the next chapter -- statements from factions and groups, and then it's going to be from the national MPs. Now I'm asking the factions and groups to record statements from factions and groups. I'll remind you, they'll be from the people's deputies and then the closing word. Please hold the recording. Please participate in the faction statement. So, colleagues, now the first word is given to the representative of the People's Front, from the People's Front will have the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u443	Sergey Pashinsky will be from the People's Front. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u444	Dear friends, the People's Front faction will support the budget. We've done a colossal job with you, we have a growth budget, we thank the Prime Minister, we thank the coalition for being able to record GDP growth and we can accept the growth budget. On my part, as head of the Defence and Security Committee, I point out that we as a coalition are obliged to send 5 percent of GDP to defence and security in order to reflect the aggression of the Russian Federation. I ask for a transcript and ask the Minister of Finance to listen carefully. I'm going to read the Committee on Defence and Security. I hope the Ministry of Finance will support me and include them in the second reading to the vote: Redistribute the expenditure of the General Special Fund of the State Budget to the Ministry of Economic Development to 700 million dollars from the budget of the National Space Agency; to redistribute expenditure between the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defence, transferring the latest expenditure to the financing of the State Special Transport Service in the direction of 31105010; To provide within the framework of article 6 of the draft Regulations on the increase in the number of State guarantees for residents of Ukraine with credit loans involved in financing programmes related to the enhancement of the security and security of the state in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine with 3 billion sums; In this case, the alternative to providing public guarantees is to provide direct budgeting in the form of an increase in the statutory capital of the state mortgage facility to finance the mortgage of military personnel in the amount of billions of dollars to be spent on construction projects for military personnel. In the Final Positions, which are related to paragraph 6, which relates to the implementation of the State Security and Security Programme, which includes the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which includes the National Budget of Ukraine, which includes the National Budget of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine, the State Border Guard of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, the State Service of Ukraine, the State Service of Exceptional Situations, the State Space Agency, which pays for the purchase of goods, works and charges for the execution of programmes related to the enhancement of security of Ukraine's operations, which include the relevant commercial interest and security of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u445	I'm going to add. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? This is a pre-correction. under the stenogram to be read. So it has to be very detailed here under the transcript. So I'm adding two more minutes to finish, just like I gave Siewakovsky. Please, this is the position of the Security and Defence Committee at the same time. Add 2 minutes to Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u446	Including monthly payments of interest on the use of loans, loans, and government guarantees to Ukrainian residents. The Ministry of Defence, the National Guard of Ukraine, the State Border Service, the National Police of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine, the National Border Service, the National Police of Ukraine, the Foreign Intelligence Service, the Emergency Affairs Service, the State Space Agency make budgetary commitments to the Defence and Security Programme of the State, which implements the involvement of loans (loans) under State guarantees by residents of Ukraine and the State Treasury Service, registers such budgetary commitments within the framework of the relevant farm agreements and provides public guarantees for this purpose. Issues related to simplification of procedures used in the construction of military infrastructure in the military towns and in the manufacturing infrastructure of defence and industrial enterprises, namely, to establish that it is temporary until the end of a special period of construction, reconstruction, restoration, and capital repair of objects on the ground. the well-being of military units, institutions, organizations of the Armed Forces and others formed, in accordance with the laws, military formations, as well as the design of construction works, the reconstructions with which the state contract for the defence order for the performance of defence tasks is made without the provision of construction conditions and restrictions. Construction, reconstruction, restoration, and restoration work that have been contracted by the State for defence and defence purposes refer to objects that fall within the SS1 and the medium class of effects of responsibility. SS2 does not need documents that give them the right to execute them and that do not allow the object to be used. Construction work should be done according to the completion of the project documentation. The Cabinet of Ministers will ensure that the acts of Kabmin and the Ministry of Regional Development of Ukraine, construction, housing and utility are amended to facilitate the completion of a specific period of project design and construction work on such objects that are carried out directly on land that are used or owned by active state-owned enterprises with which a state contract for defence contracts for the performance of defence-related work is drawn up. Thank you all. And please, we're not voting for the state budget, we're voting for the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u447	Mr. Sergey, please consult with Vinnik for a moment. I'm adding 30 seconds to finish. Now, colleagues, before I read the next reporter, I'm going to make one message that the National MP asked me to do. Wait a minute! The National MP, Dombrovski, asked me to read that he asked that his vote be taken into account in the vote in favour of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Balance of Budget Revenues in 2018 (second reading and generally). I promised to advertise publicly, and I announced. 30 seconds. Finish up, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u448	Within the framework of article 6 of the draft budget, the sums that I have received are 3 billion dollars, a billion dollars, which I have heard from the Ministry of Finance. So we leave the article, we leave the list, we take the sums off.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u449	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to Natalia Royal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u450	Dear colleagues! The 2018 budget is a big affair. Today we've seen the government's final offer: it's a $50 pension, it's a minimum wage of $120, it's a living minimum of $60. Your social standards make it possible for people to drink water, smell food in a store, watch medicine in a pharmacy and everything. Today you gave the budget to the second reading. It's just a shock. You're offering 40 billion dollars extra from local budgets, to print, to collect from state enterprises. But you don't add a penny to your pension, salary, or minimum wage. It's nonsense when, in a war, total poverty is raised, not by pensions and wages, but by printing money, raising tariffs, and raising prices. Are you saying we don't have any money? But to look closely at the budget, there is money. For example, you've found 500 million dollars for making movies, you've found 200 million dollars for your own piano on TV channels, you've found 1 billion 200 million dollars for veterinary hospitals, you've added 175 million dollars to the public health facilities, and so on. But you didn't find any money to support our pensioners to support the military pensioners today to support the displaced. But the third question is, it's nonsense at all. For the first time in Ukraine, you offer to distribute 7 billion dollars by hand. It violates the Constitution, it creates huge corruption risks. So the Opposition Block will vote against this budget. The opposition bloc will address the Constitutional Court to declare this budget unconstitutional because it is a budget for war and poverty. This is not a budget for peace and the future of our country. We've offered you proposals, we've clearly offered you a draft budget, how to get the country back to peace and development, but you don't want that. We vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u451	Please, from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u452	I understand that many Ukrainian citizens are now listening to how we accept the budget. And I'm mostly talking to you because all the other things that I've seen in these days, I've seen the budget adoption of the understanding of the words that you're writing in Facebook: in the trough, I've disbursed the budget. This is a demonstration of what we saw. How, we see, do we accept the budget in democratic countries? Every ministry in the parliamentary-presidency country should come to the committee and report on all the programmes that we should review and approve to the budget. Whether it's diplomatic detention or industrial politics or health care. We do it under the table. No one can see. And it's not democracy, it's the rudest corruption. The other one. At the request of the European Parliament, we have adopted a very important bill here, we have put a bird for adaptation, called "The State Programmes". I would like to remind you that under this bill you have no right to open new programs to support the state at the expense of the state budget if you have not completed the old programmes. Please tell me, if Dnipropetrovsk is building a subway for how many years?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u453	Dnipro, Dnipro! And they won't. And Zaporozhye, the bridge? And you've reopened new programs to spread some money around different regions. It's a shame. You adopt European law with one hand and you violate it with the other. Third. I asked the Prime Minister this question. You promised, decentralization, unify communities, and the long - term plan was only for capable financial communities. What did you do? You set up an elephant, said we'd take 80 percent. And then, when we stood still, 50, as is the case today, we breathed it all out and said, "Lord! Thank God!" So it was to the united communities! Now what? The crowd was united. You put all the utilities on them, all the salaries and even the loans for the heat and utilities, and the benefits for the children of war and the Chernobylites. And you take away their horizontal alignment. It's a shame! As far as medical reform is concerned. Darling, look at the way they screamed about the need for this reform. And I told you, this is a command of combat penguins.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u454	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u455	She's not gonna do anything, and now they're not ready to implement her. We came from Copenhagen, and I want you to know, the UNICEF program showed us, at the expense of Ukraine, $23.8 million. That's 9 billion. Nine billion, there's money that the budget doesn't use for citizens, and they don't have a cure. When I turned to you in September, for border guards, not on the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u456	Dear Mrs. Alexander. We have an order. Okay. Ms. Alexander, I'm just asking you not to scream anymore, because it's a budget, but it's a valid budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u457	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u458	No, I'll, okay, I'll give you one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u459	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u460	Okay. Mrs. Alexander, please don't shout. The position is clear. Thank you for your position. It's from Self-Help, Mrs. Tetjana Ostrikov. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u461	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The 2018 budget is approved at unreliable macroeconomic indicators. Because these figures were confirmed in May, and they were not even able to be reviewed by the government in September of the budget before the first reading. As a result, 35 additional billions of dollars of income were found in the budget one month before the second reading. It's at a time when we're told that now we can't cancel the income tax and introduce the capital tax as an incentive for economic recovery, because we don't have any compensators. During the month between the first and second readings, the government found 35 billion additional budget revenues by changing macroeconomic indicators. Now let's see what the government is offering us to divide them into. Because we had a separate income of 40 billion additional expenses. What are they going for? Dear colleagues, in 2017, 4.6 billion GPAs were invested, now an additional 2.1 billion GPIs this year. An additional 1.6 billion dollars are added to the BSS this year. On the IMF, the Ukrainians, extra this year plus 19 billion dollars, plus 19 billion dollars. That's when we spoke to the Defense Minister and the Army at the faction, the army's needs in a wartime country were funded in this budget by only 46 percent. So the army is underfunded, and the government is offering us to build a police force state, the taxpayers' money to redistribute to law enforcement, which then stands around the Council, protects thousands of protestors, the national MPs don't let in the Supreme Council. And then these same law enforcement officers are running to tax payers with mask-show searches, and those payers who pay in the budget are holding this force guard in the underfunding of the total army. Let's take a look at it. Budget decentralization. Thanks to self-help efforts, other factions and parties, the government finally included a little bit of self-preservation between first and second reading. As a result, at least the reverse subsidies and the benefits and the debt on the GCP have been left at the same level as they were in the 17th year. But our gains of decentralization continue to be systematically undermined. Now my colleague Sisoyenko tells me that the medical subsidy is underfunded by 4 billion, it's the wages of medical workers. At that time, there are additional budget costs between the first and second readings of 16 billion per grant. We asked the finance minister: where is the validation of subsidies, where is the verification of recipients? These funds come directly from the budget. Where is the monetaryization of subsidies so that these costs go directly to people? The subsidy is 71 billion, and the energy efficiency measures under the Heat Loan program are 400 million. It's like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u462	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u463	And for some incomprehensible programs that are distributed among their own, there's an additional 2 billion in energy efficiency. That's why Self-Help can't support this squeamish budget of a forceful police state. We demand that parliamentary control be put in place at the expense of law enforcement and at the expense of defence. Because it can't be the police, not the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u464	Please, next speaker, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u465	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleague from UKROP, Alexander Shevchenko, when I was just going to the rostrum, he said to me, "Please do something else." Mr. Alexander, I'll tell you and all my colleagues everything we ask, everything for the Ukrainians. Wages, pensions, jobs, economic recovery, and, I hope you'll be with us in this fight to raise the standard of living of Ukrainians. That's not what we're asking. That's what we're asking Prime Minister Groisman to do. Volodymyr Borisovich, I want to thank you for the fact that over the last six months we may have met 20 times as many times and discussed, you know, what question, dear colleagues, one of you is discussing with the Prime Minister the well, one of you is discussing some, there, the benefits, some preferences, and one of me and the Prime Minister were discussing a question: raising wages, raising wages for Ukrainians, raising wages, because it's key to overcoming poverty in the country. Volodymyr Borisovich, the draft budget you've submitted for the 3700 minimum wage since the new year is low. Of course, this is better than the 1,400 that was before this year. But this does not allow Ukrainians to live with dignity. Therefore, the Radical Party team demanded 5,000 dollars of minimum wage from the new year. Unfortunately, I would like to inform the Ukrainians that as a result of the lengthy discussions, we are trying to find compromise. The budget possibilities that have analysed the revenue portion of the budget and we think there are all possibilities from the third quarter to set a minimum wage of 4200-4300 dollars per month. It's definitely less than 5, but it's better than 4,200. If we raise wages by at least a thousand dollars a year for millions of people, it's going to be great, because rising wages is going to raise pensions. Millions of people, especially those who have worked their entire life in the farm, will receive a meager pension because they worked for the working days. An increase in wages will allow you to raise pensions. So the Radical Party faction calls on the Prime Minister to support our offer and minimum wage from the second quarter of 2018 4 thousand 300 dollars a month. This is a compromise proposal that we can agree on. The next increase is from September 1, 2018, which will enable us to overcome poverty, new jobs, a new economy, a decent life for Ukrainians in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u466	Colleagues, do we still have a desire to speak out from the political groups represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? "Rebirth"? "The will of the people"? A closing statement from the factions, then we'll have speeches from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please, from Peter Dustenk's Block, Solidarity. Please, Olga Cervakova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u467	How much time? Good afternoon, dear colleagues. On May 1, 2013, the President's decree to grant status to the National Park of the Bilican Forest was signed. This is the city of Kiev. Thus, 4,000 hectares of recreational zone were joined by the Golosiowsky NPP and granted the highest conservation status to this forest is the National Park. According to the President’s decree by the end of 2016, the environment was to be protected, i.e. the development of a design project, forest management, and the delineation of borders in nature. I mean, now we have the end of the 17th year. We can celebrate a sad anniversary when the President's decree has not been implemented for a year. This is because this year alone, the conservation environment had 360 million dollars. During the last two years, I have been asking questions and asking questions in various ways. The last answer of Minecology struck me with this, frankly, candor. "In view of the above, the Minn-Natures have been deprived of the financial capacity to support the implementation of all conservation measures, because the total amount of expenditure exceeds the amount allocated for this year almost five times," the Ministry of Ecology writes to me. This is because such budget requests for Minecology came in 2015, in 2016 and in 2017 as well. Dear colleagues, I understand that perhaps the ecology of this rostrum is not popular, but it's a question of our future, it's a question of our children's future, it's a question of what we're going to breathe. And what I'm saying is that delaying further delimitation in the nature of the Bilican Forest will lead to total drainage and the destruction of 4,000 hectares of the recreational zone. It's not just a recreation zone, it's a conservation forest that's still coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I'm asking you very much to take this question under personal control because all of those answers to queries and queries, they're actually discounts. And the President's compliance with the Billican Forest Order is a sort of Italian strike -- it's irresponsible. I ask very, very much this year to put a dot on this issue and to put boundaries in the nature of the Bilican Forest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u468	Thank you. The budget, of course, is not just about the Billican Forest, and I understand that, Olga, your faction supports the budget. Right? Thank God. So we can understand what's going on in the context of the budget. Colleagues, I'd like to sign up for a discussion with the Ukrainian National Deputies right now. We've got nine minutes for the national MPs of Ukraine. And we can quietly go back to the session room because now we're speaking from the national MPs, then we have literally two or three of those consolidating, consolidating, and we're voting. Mr. Sugonjako gives the floor, 6 minutes Kaplin, Sugonyako and Kaplin, six minutes. Let's set it up. Please, Mr. Capplin. Please, six minutes. Please turn on Mr. Caplin's microphone from his seat, he'll be performing for six minutes using Sugonako and Caplina's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u469	Yes, Mrs. Irina, I'm going to be speaking for six minutes and I'm going to talk about it, and I'm going to talk about those who, unfortunately, are here all day of the budget process. I'm going to talk about half a million veterans of the Ministry of Internal Affairs that held almost 20 rallies under the Cabinet of Ministers during the year. People came from all over the country, people with their backs shut you down with you, especially the national MPs, from lawlessness. Every day they went to work, and their wives waited for this simple man to return alive from his work. Today they're getting a pension of 1 thousand 400, 1 thousand 500 dollars, and it's unacceptable in a civilizedly developed state like ours, it's unacceptable that it's in relation to half a million people who've risked their lives for many years. On behalf of the army of these people, I want to refer here to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the professional Deputy Prime Minister Rosenk, to the Minister of Social Policy, to the Ukrainian National Deputies, we no longer have the moral right to delay and translate this issue into a future solution. We've had a series of consultations with Deputy Prime Minister Kubi, and unfortunately it turns out that we were just being driven by the nose, and no one wants to solve these people's issues. The other one. I'm going to talk about ordinary citizens, about peasants, about workers who can't survive on the salary of not three thousand 200, or 4 thousand 200, or 5,000 200, because, unlike them, you don't go to Ukrainian markets, you don't go to Ukrainian pharmacies, you don't buy Ukrainian goods, you go to ten, fifteen, you go abroad twenty times for a year and you talk about the law "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians." You would buy Ukrainian instead of riding Mercedes and helicopters, not fly, to meet with voters, and then transplant into nines and sixes, countrymen, and Soviet production to please ordinary people, as if not having your wealth. You declare millions, tens of millions of dollars, and you break up here, spraying gallbladder from the Supreme Council's rostrum, as if protecting the common people. I'm going to talk about these people and the necessity, and, above all, the possibility for them to increase their pension to at least 5,000 dollars, in the first stage, the minimum pension, and the minimum wage to 10,000 dollars. And that today is absolutely real. Our political power The Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party, the Workers' Party with the support of the Party of Pensioners and other left-wing forces, and the trade unions, today have sent to the government a very detailed explanation of how this can be done. You have, if you have to change here, not the Tax Code, but in general the Constitution, reduce the number of Ukrainian national deputies, save on government, on the President, on administrations, on district administrations. To keep all these incredibly expensive and luxurious buildings where you work, and to send this money to support ordinary, average Ukrainians. That's what your focus should be on, instead you're embarrassingly, sublimely, without discussion, in front of the whole country, on the day the budget is accepted, you're double your salary. And you want to restore confidence in Parliament? Restoration of trust in power in this country? You want people to keep stretching their belts? But there will never be, people will rise up, they will come out here, they will fight for their better, deserved life. Because these unfortunate pensioners and pensioners built these factories, built these factories, built these roads, built and protected all of our Ukraine, our country. Today you spit in their soul, you spit in their face. You leave them alone with poverty. This budget, which is being discussed today, is actually a bedrock. And you, as near the trough, near the Supreme Council stand-in here, in the last minute before the vote, actually "deprecated" this budget. You've done zero percent of VAT on imported cars today! Look, the average cost of an import car is $20,000. A person who has $20,000 per car has exactly 4 more to pay for VAT. Why don't you cancel the VAT on Greek, on sugar, on bread, on bread, finally, to make life easier for ordinary Ukrainians? Why do you go through the service of an oligarchy? Next, I would like to support my colleague from Self-Help Irina Sisoyenko today: you have condemned the disgraceful, pitiful existence of those who save each day – he saves every day! - the lives of your children, your grandchildren, those who stand on this "medical front" today, like a trench. Those who receive a minimum wage today and who beg you under the government will pay attention to their needs under the administration. You've set up another budget account today. The whole country. [[B in m in s a l in]] The whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u470	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Dear Mr. Capplin, it was almost a poem. Almost a poem, but we're discussing the budget. 15 seconds to complete. 15 seconds - dot! Everyone's awake, ready to vote. 15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u471	And last of all, I want you, if, in Ukrainians, are now sitting or standing, so that you, dear Ukrainians, sit down, because you're going to fall down: there are fire trucks in this budget again, there's a novelty in this budget -- "fire helicopters." You and I lived to the pen!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u472	Colleagues! Colleagues, with the same attention right now, I ask you to listen to the final MP who will be speaking in the section "From Deputies", the German National MP from "The Opposition Block," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u473	The German National Deputy, the Opposition Block, passes the word to Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u474	Hear, hear. Scorch will be performing, not Germany, but Scorch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u475	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I am primarily addressing Ukrainian citizens because I understand that there are already votes for the 2018 budget in this room. I have to point out once again that the Opposition Block Political Party, the faction of the Political Party of the Opposition Block, will by no means support this budget. I would like to highlight some of the issues that have not been addressed by my colleagues who have just spoken in this room, and I think they have rightly criticised this budget. I can say that there's a positive novelty in this budget -- that we accept this budget on December 7th, not December 29th, as always, under the tree at night and so on, and we have the opportunity to look at it in any way. He was considered more or less by procedure, and I am grateful to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers. But this budget is the budget of a police state, the budget of a completely poor citizen, a budget that makes it impossible for our state to develop. I have one question to highlight. which virtually no one has touched today in the discussion is a matter of government debt. We have a government debt of over two trillion dollars in this budget. I have to remind the coalition representatives in the room that when they came to power, the debt owed was 564 billion dollars, now more than two trillion. Our faction has offered to send over 7 billion dollars of what you seem to have been disposing of, according to court decisions and so forth, and confiscated funds to reduce government debt. I think that would be fair in terms of future generations of our citizens. And you're also giving this budget and other documents to the Ministry of Finance that don't agree with the budget committee, with the Supreme Council to issue government loans, state loans, not agreeing with any government authorities. I think it's a way to increase government debt above the level that the State Budget has given. Once again, this budget cannot be supported in any way, and it can be criticized for a very long time for the question that underfunded medical issues, underfunded issues of social protection. You can't actually say something positive about this budget, except that it's more or less accepted in its term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u476	Guys, it's simple. Yeah, look. In principle, we have to finish the discussion, but here were the memories of each other, and so now, please, 30 seconds, Mrs. Sisoyenko. Please. The replica. Don't mention each other for the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u477	I want to make a note. I would like to point out that in the State budget for the following year, a catastrophicly low figure is a supplement to the medical subsidy compared to this year. Only 780 million are funded by a medical subsidy to the payroll fund. This year, the debt amounted to 4 billion dollars. And this 780 million is a drop at sea in terms of the sums that our government owed to medical workers. So we demand, and I am very pleased that the requirement to raise salaries for health workers is a common position of many factions of this Parliament, many of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u478	I've got the position. Thank you for the line. This is National Deputy Bondar, please from the People's Front. There were memories, please, for a minute as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u479	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I want to thank the government that has listened to the proposals of the coal industry subcommittee, and I've added a billion in fact to the wages of coal-carbon miners. And the 300 million that are for mine modernization is not enough. I want to ask government members to find the funds in the rest of the world, to add to that article that's for modernization and restocking mines. And in this way, by developing new lavas, by purchasing new equipment, by allowing our mines to get out of the state on a non-profit basis and then not to spend any more money on this sector's pre-financing for wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u480	Thank you, Sir Bondar. Now, distinguished Mr. Davidenko, who is sounding the same position that here has just sounded in consultation with the government and the budget committee, and with representatives of the factions of the coalition. Please, Mr. Davidenko, your moment, please. Turn the microphone on on on the stand, turn the microphone on on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u481	Dear Mr. Davidenko, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u482	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u483	Why? Dear colleagues, I'd like us to come back a little bit. We've just put two amendments in the hall: 99th and 180th. 180th, it's about the VAT return on exports of agricultural crops like raps, soybeans and sunflowers. If we don't get that return, we're going to lose about nine billion dollars in agriculture. I mean, we took the guards from them, but we promised they'd get full VAT compensation. Today, there is a distortion of some kind of activity. The 99th Amendment says that the monetary assessment that is now being approved at the sessions of the District Councils will be approved by the Maintenance Fund. I don't think we can do that, we have to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u484	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u485	Overruled. Please place these 2 amendments in the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u486	Dear colleagues, and, dear colleagues, listen to what is happening. Colleagues, I'm asking you to leave the rostrum. You've been heard by the government manager, and then he's going to sum up everything that sounds now, that's how he sums up the speeches in the context of the budget discussion. Colleagues, I'm asking you to step out of the rostrum. And now it's said, there's been a lot of talk about decentralization, and in the context of decentralization, the word is given to the representative of the head of the Association of Cities of Ukraine, our colleague Mrs. Oksani Prodan. Please turn on the microphone, Mrs. Prodan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u487	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I am now addressing you, not as the leader of the UDA group, but as the head of the Association of Ukrainian Cities in Parliament, Vitalia Klicka, who worked with the measures, along with the government on the draft budget, on the draft amendments to the Budget Code, starting in September. And I want to say that there have been a lot of meetings and a lot of discussions. We had many suggestions, claims, comments on the first revision of the Budget Code. Similarly, many warnings were given and many warnings about the 18th - year budget. At the same time, it was a revelation to me about how this process of reconciliation between the Association of Ukrainian Cities and the Government and Parliament took place today. And now I want to thank you for the first time in the Dignity Revolution. Vladimir Borisovich, may I finish? For the first time in the Dignity Revolution, we have a really coherent position and a really open dialogue between the mayors, between the people working in the communities, and the government. I want to thank the budget committee, which has spent a lot of time with the heads of various local councils in order to work out the position that local communities need. I want to take a look at a few points that have been accepted that have never been accepted before. These are the direct inter-budget ratios of 299 unified territorial communities. This is what we have promised many times and what we have finally done. We have made these changes, which are now being voted on, an opportunity for united territorial communities to set up local taxes and congregations on their own. The question that was taken by measures that really bothered everyone about reverses, about housing benefits, education, health care, medium-term loans. These issues are included in the 2018 budget. Yeah, we have a question, and we're going to keep working on changing the formula of the reverse. We'll do everything we can to make the rent on water the way local communities need it, and all the other questions. But I want to say that this process of budget preparation has become the first step in really full cooperation between the government, the Parliament and the Association of Ukrainian Cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u488	Dear colleagues. Now, a minute. One minute. Colleagues, we still have a speech by Irina Lucenko, the President's representative. And then, Maxim Chicken, who reads out those positions that have done the same thing to the factions of the coalition before the final vote on the budget. And also a comment from Nina Petrovna and a comment from the government on Davidenko’s voiced position. Mrs. Irina, please have your word now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u489	Dear colleagues, for the first time, perhaps in recent years after the fruitful constructive work of the coalition, all the MP factions and groups, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we have worked out a sufficiently balanced and thorough budget. Following the insistence of the President of Ukraine as commander-in-chief and as guarantor of the social guarantees of Ukraine's citizens, the following figures have changed with the insistence of our BBC faction in this budget. Rural health funding has increased from 4 billion to 6 billion. National security and defence increased to 164 billion. There's been an increase in funding for building and rebuilding roads, up to 40 billion. The energy efficiency fund has increased. Rent rates on new wells have decreased. So we encourage the production of national oil and gas. We have increased the DFRD from 2 billion to 6 billion, enabling us to support local self - government and united territorial communities. There has been increased funding for rural infrastructure, for lighting, for drinking water, for wells, for water stations, for roads. There has been an increase in funding for patriotic films, which is so necessary today for the Ukrainian State. We've returned funding through the state budget for colleges and technology that are in the structure of universities. It's 371 schools, it's over 200,000 people working. This is an education that gives us hope for the rebirth of Ukrainian youth and Ukraine as an industrial and highly developed state. I am grateful to all the factions who have taken part in this. And I'm asking the MPs with the amendment that I'm about to read by Arthur Gerasimov to support this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u490	Dear colleagues, now Arthur Gerasimov and Maxim Chicken, then sum up the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister sums up today's discussion. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u491	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I mean, this is really the largest budget in the country's history. I would like to emphasize once again that it has significantly increased the cost of increasing the efficiency of our army, of increasing the efficiency of our defence industry, of increasing the efficiency of our defence. It's thanks to the Peter Prashenko faction, once again, I want to repeat the preserved experiment initiated by the President of Ukraine on road repair. In addition, it has set up significant social costs for the Ukrainian population, and it has set up considerable funds for the agricultural medicine programme initiated by the President of Ukraine. Please support this budget against the next technical adjustment. The "Final Positions" of the draft Budget Act should be supplemented by the following: "Determining that the standards and provisions of Subsection No. 13, Section 2 and Chapter XX, Subsection 5, Subsection No. 5, of the Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation by Added Costs and Excise Collection of Importation Transactions into Customs Territory of Ukraine of Electrical Vehicles operate until January 01, 2019." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u492	Thank you. Colleagues, we have our last speech from Maxime Chicken, which will sound like amendments and norms that have been agreed upon by the Coalition factions in consultation with the Committee of Budgets and in consultation with the Ministry of Profiles and the Government as a whole. Please. It's all going under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u493	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Well, actually, the degree of discussion in this room is going to go bad today. And there's something to worry about, because we accept, well, the financial constitution for the following year and the responsibility is very great. We have just held and completed the last such meeting with a whole range of people's deputies, and we ask that we also take into account our next proposals during the vote, including the new State Service Act in 2018, there will be an unsecured need to pay for the work. You can't let that happen. The budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council on this issue are unfortunately not taken into account and are not contained in the conclusions of the budgetary committee on the outcome of the draft State budget bill. Under these circumstances, there is no motivation for professional growth, an increase in efficiency and initiative, and unfortunately, the drain of highly skilled personnel continues. This is impossible; the situation needs to be rectified. And that's why, given the government's proposal to apply the only approach to determining the level of pay in public authorities, we ask that we support the need to increase the cost of the work of senior officials of the President's Administration, the Supreme Council, the government and the Minfin and the common people there. The bottom line of the proposal is this. To make such changes to Appendix 3 under the General Fund for Consumption Expenditure, namely, to increase the Supreme Council's apparatus by 59 million 990.8 thousand dollars, of which 49 million 172.8 thousand dollars. Increase the state administration by code 0301010 by 26 million 088 (with comma) 5,000 dollars, of which 21 million dollars is paid for. Increase the government by code 0411010 by 28 million 460 (through whom) and two ten thousand dollars, of which 23 million 328 thousand dollars are paid. To increase Minfina by code 3501010 by 31 million 446.7 thousand dollars, of which 25 million 776 thousand dollars were paid. To increase the Henprocuratorium code 0901010 by 400 million dollars, of which 327.8 million dollars are paid. Increase Ukraine’s National Academy of Medical Sciences by 3 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u494	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u495	This is very important, everyone. In the title of the budget program under code 2201870, replace the word "retraining with re-profile" with the word "reprofile". Next. Technical but very important remarks. Under the code of the programming classification of expenditure and the lending of the state budget 2511120 under the code of the functional classification of expenditure and the crediting of the budget 0180. Subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets for payment of money for suitable housing for families of deceased persons defined in paragraphs 5 - 8 of article 10, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans guarantees their social care after these words a dot with a coma to replace just who. It's very important because it doesn't have to be double-read, because if you leave it, it only applies to people with disabilities in group I-II and it doesn't spread to families of the dead. We can't let this happen from the same story, on the same subject: by code of the programming classification of expenditure and by crediting the State budget to 2511200 by code of functional classification of expenditure and crediting to budget 0180. Subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for payment of monetary compensation for suitable housing for families of deceased members of hostilities in the territory of other States defined in paragraph 1 of the first paragraph of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, is the same as the previous time, instead of a dot with a coma, simply set to whom. Such an editorial will allow and apply not only to persons with disabilities in the first and second groups but also to the families of the dead. This, then, must be corrected. In addition to my previous proposals for increased funding and the Supreme Council's apparatus, and the Government's administration of affairs, and the government, and the Minfin, and the Henprocurement, and the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. We propose that the source of such additional expenses increase the revenue under code 21010000 for the net revenue of state-owned enterprises and dividends by EUR 548 million 986.2 thousand. In addition, it is a very big request in paragraph 21.6 of the Committee's "Vysnovices", that the words "including acquisition, modernization and renovation of aviation technology" be replaced by the words "including acquisition, modernization and repair of helicopter technology." Next. The name of the budget programme 2401270 is as follows: "Implementation of conservation measures with appropriate clarifications to the text and to Appendix 3 to this bill." In addition, article 34 of the bill, which refers to the use of the remaining confiscated funds in 2017, is proposed to supplement after the words “implementation of measures aimed at the development of a rural health system” with words and figures, including “350 million dollars for the purchase of vehicles equipped with X-ray devices”, is a real support, it is a real support for rural medicine. In addition, under the 1801560 budget programme, the activity of the Ukrainian Book Institute will increase the expenditure of the general fund on the salary of the budget programme by 7 million 521 thousand dollars. In the absence of additional sources for this increase, this source can be predicted, and this resource can be found from the internal redistribution of funds within the total amount of 144 million 347.3,000 dollars foreseen by the 1801560 program. In addition, it is proposed to increase the revenue of the general fund of the State Budget project for 2018 under code 21080000, other revenues, by 1 billion 200 million dollars in connection with the possible arrival of rental fees for the use of the entire property and other state assets, as well as payments for the operation of gas distribution systems or their components, while reducing this amount of revenue from the privatization of State property and the deficit of the general fund of the State budget by making appropriate changes to Article 1 and Appendices One and Two Bills. In view of the recent decision by the government to establish a state center for the Olympic training of winter sports, we ask for support for the need to increase the expenditure of the Ministry of Youth and Sports by the code of 3401220 by 45 million 610.4,000 dollars, of which the consumption of 37 million 421 (with a coma) and three tens of thousands of dollars of development expenditure of 8 million 189.1,000 dollars for the increase in the amount of the specified amount under code 21010000 for the part of the net revenue of state-owned enterprises and dividends for the public share. For the State Migration Service, a special government budget fund will set development expenditure of 170 million dollars under code 1004010, reducing development expenditure under code 1004020. Please appoint a budget program under code 0411190, leave the government-issued version, it's more reasonable. Please increase the cost of consumption under code 1801110 by 40 million dollars to the Ministry of Culture by an increase in revenue under code 21010000 by this amount. And to complement the End of the Bill with a new paragraph of the following content: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a proposal on legislative harmonization of the issue of accounting as of 1 January 2019 five per cent of the rent for the use of the nadrama for the extraction of useful fossils of public value, except for the rent for the use of naphtha, natural gas and gas condensate for the budgets of local self-government at the site of production of the relevant useful fossils." So far, I've got everything, I'm asking very much for our final work to be taken into account in the voting and to give appropriate instructions to process them in technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u496	Thank you. Colleagues, this was the position of the Committee on Budgets, and these adjustments that the Henman made, this is a solution to the inaccuracies that were in the budget. And so, colleagues, I'm going to tell you right now, I'm going to ask you to come into the hall, and I want to tell you a few things. By voting, I'm going to say that we're putting to the vote with the proposals that Spiowakovsky made under the transcripts that Pashinsky from the Defence Committee made on the transcript. Which Gerasim sounded and which was sounded by the Hen, I will put to the vote. Colleagues, I'll let you know again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word! My colleagues, I'll let you know that after the vote, I'm going to make an offer that tomorrow we'll have our plenary meeting transferred to work on the committees. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the vote. I'm underlining. I'll make this offer, and the hall will be determined. Next, we have one more budgetary question: this is the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's distributed in the hall, and I'm going to put it to a post-budget vote. And, dear fellows, we have a great ambition to accept the budget by midnight. We finally finished his discussion. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. And I invite you to the closing statement of Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u497	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u498	Excuse me, Dubnevich. Vladimir Borisovich, a replica of Dubnevich, and then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u499	Dear colleagues, with a view to properly shaping and interpreting the provisions adopted today at the morning session of Bill 7116 (as regards the amendments to the Code of Budgets), I stress that the amendments under numbers 34, 35 and 285 that were applied to the confirmation were supported in the text proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u500	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u501	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national deputies! I think today we're going to show the whole country how consolidated we are, that we're changing the standards of our work. We worked with you in advance for a few months to form a good, balanced country budget. I want to thank you all for your position, for your comments, for the final decisions that have been made in the Ukrainian Parliament. I would also like to stress that 2018 is to become a year of economic growth, and we have to make real changes in the country's social situation. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the amendment that Arthur Gerasimov said, we really didn't understand it during the vote, and that's why we got an invalid vote, but now we're fixing it for electric cars. And one more question is very important: the draft budget provides for a minimum wage adjustment depending on the national economy. I hope that the minimum wage will be increased, and I also want to emphasize what is on this occasion and from this point of view the President of Ukraine's address, you know. We discussed this in the Peter Prashenko faction in the People's Front. Today, Oleg Lazko from the rostrum announced that this is also a position that concerns them, and we can settle it by working there for the first quarter or the second quarter of the national economy. And we can get to the number that the President announced, four hundred, four thousand 200, I think that's what we're going to work on, but I stress, that's all depending on the work of the national economy. And after the first quarter, we're sitting down with you and we're discussing this issue with a view to making the necessary decision. Dear friends, once again, I would like to thank you and ask you to support the State Budget on December 7th on the Day of Local Self-Government, not under a tree, not at night, but on a busy but regular day. Thank you so much for your support and the main thing is that we don't have any demands anymore, we have a work process. As Prime Minister, there is no need for me to demand anything from any faction that creates what works for the construction of the state. Everything you offer and it will serve the state better and much more effectively, I always support it and colleagues in the government -- too. Thank you. And we vote. Thank you, Your Honor. Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-07-m1.u502	So, colleagues, please take up jobs. The second reading of Ukraine's draft "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2018" was completed. Let's move on to making a decision. And I, in accordance with article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, am voting for adoption in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law "On the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018" (No. 700), as amended by the transcript of the representative of the Committee Sergey Ivanovich Melnik, as well as by the representative of the Committee on Security of Pasinsky and Vinnik, as amended by the amendments that Svivacski has made to the transcript, and we are all supporting them, as amended by Gerasimov and as amended by the Heat to arrange all the amendments and also by Dubnjevic, which have been sounded and paid. [[B in m in s a l in]] 4200 wages after the first quarter. [[B in m in s a l in]] That we're going to consider the possibility of 4,200 from the first quarter. And I ask you to vote in favour of the second reading of the budget -- the security budget, the defence budget, the warlord's budget. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's two votes. First, the second reading. Then in general. One is the second reading. Please be supportive. Please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:23:34]] For 267 Decision taken. And in accordance with article 158 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2018 (No. 700) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We're taking the budget, please have the general support. [[23:24:08]] For 273 Budget accepted. Everyone, please remain seated, colleagues. I'm asking you convincingly. According to 35. Article 85. The Constitution of Ukraine, under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is the approval of the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 7 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are approved during the adoption of the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for the following year in a second reading. In view of the vote that I have put to the vote, the Bill, number 7380, on the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 18 years for adoption as a whole. Please vote and please support. The Regulatory Committee prepared a balanced document. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. For 259. Decision taken. And now, colleagues, the proposal to change the calendar. This is the last vote for today. I propose that, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Rules, honourable colleagues make changes to the calendar plan for our work. And tomorrow, not to hold a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, but to anticipate the work of national deputies on committees and factions. Please support this proposal, please vote. Please support me, colleagues, so there will be work tomorrow on the committees and factions. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, vote. I'm asking for every single voice. [[11:26:06]] For 231 Decision taken. The calendar plan has been changed. My colleagues, we had a very important day. We have adopted a large number of important bills. But more importantly, we were able to look at the country's budget by midnight on December 7. This was the first such precedent in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. I welcome everyone, my dear colleagues, with this important historic decision, with the decisions we've made and the decisions we haven't made, and there's success in that too. My colleagues, thank you all. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
