ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u1	Colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the opening of the meeting, please. Good day, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The Ukrainian National Deputies, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine participate in the ceremony of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Leaders of the judicial branch, present. Please welcome. [[Applause]] The present officials, whom the Supreme Council of Ukraine elects, appoints, and agrees to be appointed and appointed. There are representatives of the diplomatic corps present at the ceremony. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Public organizations and media. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there are representatives of the clergy present. And please welcome them, honest fathers. [[Applause]] The 100th anniversary of the 1917-21 Ukrainian Revolution, the Supreme Council, I declare open.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u3	"The people of Ukraine! In front of you is the way to a new life! But boldly, take that great path in the name of your happiness and the happiness of the future generations of the Mother of Ukraine, with the mighty hand of your new free life!" In such words, the Ukrainian Central Council addressed its first public response, entitled "To the Ukrainian People". On March 17, 1917, the formation of the Ukrainian Central Council was announced in Kiev of the initiative of the Association of Ukrainian Progressives with the participation of the Ukrainian political parties, the Ukrainian military, the clergy, and the social cultural organizations. It is now 100 years from the beginning of the Ukrainian Revolution, 100 years of incredible energy, energy that has pushed us not only to fight but also to build up. The short historical age of 17-21 has rewarded our Fatherland with the sovereignty, the military, the Parliament itself, the State symbols, the Academy of Sciences, the National Bank and other achievements that we have used so far. Yet the greatest reward was the idea of its own national state, the self-sacrifice and the constituency of Ukraine. In March 17th, alongside Ukrainian parliamentaryism, the Ukrainian army is reborn, an army that has always been and is the foundation of the Ukrainian state, an army without which the most successful universals would remain declarations on paper. It was then that the volunteer soldiers became the force that first declared the state's nature of the Ukrainian movement. The Ukrainian soldier was the only ally who had never betrayed his people, never betrayed Ukraine. Far from party quarrels and office riots, Ukrainian Cossacks and Elders knew that a nation is a gift for which blood is paid. This high price was equally paid by boys from Kharkish and Kubani, Crimea and Galicina. The era of the Ukrainian Revolution has given us bright orientations -- people who dreamed and acted, such was a witness and participant in the Ukrainian Revolution, a common Ukrainian, native of the village of Little Janissol, in Donetsk, Mikola Haydak, who dreamed of being useful to Ukraine. When it took time, he fought for his Ukraine with his arms in his hands as the Horon of the Second Volin Army Army of the Ukrainian People’s Republic. Along with the Ukrainian army, he fought a fierce battle against an enemy who, even 100 years later, would bring death and destruction to our earth. At the age of 22, Nicholas saw his Ukraine for the last time. Under the hail of Bolshevik bullets, his unit went west. About those who fought for Ukraine until the last and who were longing for the Fatherland, a prominent Ukrainian poet, George Lipp wrote about it. "And then they retreat into discords. The rarest granite breakup, And they retreat, they fall, they leave. Your home country: – State, you were like a rain of fire! Country, goodbye!".. After that war, tens of thousands of the best representatives of Ukraine were forced to leave their homeland and disperse around the world, leaving nothing but grief and memories of Ukraine. Yet there, in the expulsion of thousands of participants in the Ukrainian Revolution, they wanted to be useful to Ukraine, for them Ukraine did not die, it lived in their souls, it dipped blood in their veins. Mikola Haydak, mentioned earlier, received a higher education and became an outstanding scientist at the queen of agricultural sciences, a professor of biology from Donbas, an academic and university professor at the leading educational institutes of the United States, a professor at the University of Minnesota. Nicholas Haydak dreamed that his scientific inventions would be necessary for Ukraine, and he dreamed of living for Ukraine. And so did the leaders of the Ukrainian revolution: Mikola Gruszewski, Head of the Ukrainian Central Council, eminent historian, Vladimir Vinnichenko, Head of the General Secretariat, publicist and prominent writer, Pavel Krapadski, Gehtman of Ukraine, Military and Political Actor, Simon Petlura, head of the U.N.R. Army, Eugene Konovalec, commander of the Sičov Sagittar Corps, Bolbochan. Each of them was an uninterrupted personality, but because they failed to reach agreement during Russian aggression, the state was lost, and they were forced to leave their homeland and continue fighting for the Ukrainian State. Sooner or later, each of them was destroyed by the Moscow arm. For the rest of their lives, they were longing for the lost state: "State, you were like a rain of fire. Country, goodbye!" The history of the Ukrainian Revolution, today there is no more important historical year for all of us, for everyone in this room and in the entire Ukrainian state, and this lesson is to be studied by every Ukrainian today. The cost of the lesson is the existence of Ukraine and the lives of millions. Because the defeat of the Ukrainian Revolution of 1917-1921 has led to the formation of the most terrible, bloodiest empire in human history, an empire of evil that has destroyed tens of millions of people who have enslaved dozens of free countries by transforming them into slave colonies. The ideas of Bolshevikism were popular in the masses at the time, and the enemy took advantage of them, cheering up Ukrainian troops and urging them not to engage in hostilities but to turn their armies around and return home to cultivate the land there. Many gave in to those popular ideas at the time, and that was the reason why we didn't have enough armies to defend our state. As a result, we lost statehood, but 15 years later, those who put down their weapons and went home to cultivate the land protected their starving children, because the state is not a formal sign. It was as a result of the loss of statehood that Ukrainians survived the genocide organized by foreigners, the destruction of Ukrainian intelligence, and the killing of millions of defenseless people. And today, more than ever, we need to learn lessons from centuries ago and draw conclusions, and they are. Ukraine needs unity and Ukraine needs a fighting army, and it's not our job with you, it's our direct responsibility. Because, like throughout the entire existence of Ukraine-Russia, we have the same enemy as the Moscow horde, the sneaky and deadly, and the same methods as ever: to dissipate, divide, burn and destroy, and on this ashtray try to revive the "blood monster", the road empire, the dark space of fear and evil. Since the restoration of statehood in 1991, there has been no minute, no second, for Russia to suffer from the mania of the restoration of the empire, the prisons of the nations. The economic and political expansion, the creation of the pro-Russian fifth columns, the destruction of the army, the displacement of our language and culture -- all of these processes continued after 1991. The 2004 Orange Revolution became the first response of Ukrainians to these threats. The Ukrainian Dignity Revolution of 2014 is the response of the Ukrainians to the attempt of a sales and pro-Russian summit led by Yanukovic to dismantle our independence. Next is a direct invasion of Russian troops, the annexation of Crimea and the beginning of the Ukrainian war for independence. But I want to remind you, my friends, when we were all together on Maidan, we won. The analogy to the events of 1917 is much more, but the fundamental differences are increasing, because despite the hostile propaganda, despite the practical destruction of the Ukrainian army in the state of 2014 we are fighting and getting stronger and we will win. The enemy didn't count one, there was a new generation of Ukrainian patriots who, in the first critical days, went east from Maidan and stopped the hordes, as did volunteers 100 years ago in 1917. This was made possible by the heroic Ukrainian soldiers, made possible by the unity of the Ukrainian nation. Audia, Marinka, Zaive, Donetské airport, The light - blue arc has become an icy shower for the Kremlin’s invaders. In these battles, the Ukrainian army was born, strengthened, and entrenched, becoming one of the most powerful, of the most formidable armies not only in Europe but also in the world. Like 100 years ago, we face the same challenges by breaking teeth about Ukrainian soldiers, and the enemy has concentrated all of his forces on the inside of the country, and the Ukrainian society is flooded with propaganda of infidelity. "To work in Ukrainian masses by breaking them apart on the line of class struggle and cutting off revolutionary elements" is a quote, not a modern Kremlin methodology, but a resolution of the Bolshevik conference of the South-West Land, then a puppetic, pro-Russian formation on Ukrainian lands. Today, in 2017, thousands of our soldiers are standing on an unbreakable wall in eastern Ukraine, and the enemy panics because he knows that the occupied Ukrainian Crimea and Ukrainian Donbas will be returned sooner or later. Remember that 99 years ago, in April 1918, the Ukrainian army under Colonel Peter Bolbocan had liberated Crimea and Donbas from the Russian invaders, and we should remember this lesson in history. The Kremlin knows that it will be responsible for all its atrocities, for the memory of our people is indestructible. It is not the state that needs fighting for fleas and jobs today, for Ukraine is now fighting again for life and the future, for freedom and dignity. Yes, we can talk about the mistakes and calculations of the day, and we can even criticize the politicians of that time. We just can't turn back the time. However, in the power of each of us to live without shame in front of the heroes of the Celestial 100 and the fallen soldiers of the modern Russian-Ukrainian war, before those who gave their lives for our dream, Ukraine. But to do that, we have to be together, because the enemy, like 100 years ago, we have one. In conclusion, I would like to address once again the very important words, from the first response of the Ukrainian Central Council, which are still relevant today: "People of the Ukrainian people! Keep calm: Do not allow yourself to do anything that destroys the system of things in your life, but work together, sincerely, and stubbornly. Only when you get together can you get to know your needs well, be determined to declare them and create a better destiny on your Earth." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u5	The Ukrainian scientist, a 20th-century researcher, a doctor of historical sciences, professor, head of the Department of History of the Ukrainian Revolution 1917-1921 years of the Institute of History of Ukraine of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine Vladislav Fedorovich Verstük. Please, Vladislav Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the highlands, welcome, guests! The century is long enough to bring back from the historical memory a host of secondary events, to take away and leave only those achievements over which time has no authority. Undoubtedly, the event of a hundred - year - old Jubilee that we honor today has found a special place in Ukrainian history. In today's address by the President of Ukraine, the speech by the Head of the Supreme Council was quite accurate and fully defined the historical significance of the Ukrainian Revolution, its strengths and weaknesses, highlighted the lessons that need to be learned. As a professional historian, I can't help but be comforted by this knowledge, because it means that my colleagues over the last quarter of the century have done a great and little work in reanimating Ukraine's history, liberating it from the backdrop of the history of the Soviet Union, which was built on the myth of the socialist revolution. The removal of Soviet mythology took place, not in academic silence, but in an intense struggle. Not so long ago there was a faction of Communists in this room, and even today Russian historians stubbornly refuse to acknowledge the existence of the Ukrainian Revolution, but claim the only Russian revolution with small regional differences and a class-based civil war. The affirmation in modern historical literature of the term "Ukrainian Revolution" is based, first of all, on the very name of the leaders and the first historians of the revolution: Gruszewski, Vinichnikka, Kristukka, Doroshenka Modern researchers point to the fundamental differences between the Ukrainian revolution and the Russian revolution. If the last major task was to fight for a monopoly on power, then for the first one, state-building and democratic values. It's a different complexity of the problem. One thing is to take power and use terror to use old state institutions, their frames and resources, and quite another to create a new state, from a pure letter, on a fundamentally different basis. Born of the collapse of the Russian imperial body, the Ukrainian Revolution in its development took a distinctly self - sufficient form, turned into a phenomenal phenomenon of the twentieth century, which remained a deep mark in the consciousness of the Ukrainian people and became the source of the national aspirations of several future generations of Ukrainians. The revolution was caused by a number of facts, primarily by the people’s desire to realize their natural right to national and national independence. The ideology of the revolution was formed on the basis of common European democratic values. The country’s aspirations were at the heart of the Ukrainian Revolution. In its run, several models were tested: democratic, left-wing, liberal-democratic and conservative. In Soviet and modern Russian literature, the notions of "revolution" and "civil war" are considered in a close relationship. New Ukrainian history has actually refused to use the term "civil war" in the context of the events of the Ukrainian Revolution. This is motivated by the fact that there was no major internal war in Ukraine on ideological ground. The Ukrainian People’s Republic had to carry out defensive military actions in its territory against the military’s military expansion of non - Ukrainian origin. The revolution was marked by opposition to Russia. The Ukrainians had to choose their rights to compete with the Russian political forces of a variety of social types and orientations, but they unanimously thought of the "one and indivisible Russia" categories. During the revolution there were several Russian-Ukrainian soldiers, both red and white Russia. Finally, Ukraine was occupied by the Red Army. The war on Bolsheviks lasted several years and was remarkably similar to what we now call hybrid warfare. The Bolsheviks acknowledged the nation's right to self-determination, but demanded the elections of the Central Council on their own scenario, created their own pocket Soviet governments in Ukraine, assisted by the armed forces, organized the uprisings in Zapilla, worked subversively among the Ukrainian politicians with left elements, established a severe occupation regime in the occupied Ukrainian territories, based on "red terror" and military communism. The defeat of the revolution forces the search for its weak places, they're no mystery. First of all, external circumstances, Russian aggression, as well as lack of experience in political leadership, domination of the world’s extremes, as well as lack of unity, lack of the required number of government personnel, including military higher qualifications, the financial and industrial crisis, and the failure of World War I. Despite the loss of statehood at the end of the 20th year, the revolutionary potential of the Ukrainian people was not exhausted, it was manifested in the mass anti-communist movement, which became one of the paradigmical features of the revolution, and was later taken over by other revolutions of the twentieth century. It would be wrong to view the revolution as a big one, but the local phenomenon is limited by the chronological framework of the 17th to 21st years. Obviously, the upper limit of 1921 is conditional. The collapse of the revolution was slow, and many processes are irreversible, especially with regard to changes in mass consciousness. So in the mid-20s, the NCCDs have been able to detect a number of flashes of propelurian moods among the population. Petluru was expected in Ukraine. At the same time, there was an extensive discussion in Ukraine about the direction of Ukrainian culture. Its essence was vividly expressed by the slogan "Get From Moscow," formulated by Mikola Waves. This was a direct result of revolutionary events. And the murder of Simon Petlura, organized by Soviet intelligence, and the Holocaust 32-33 years old, and the trial of Ukrainian intelligence in the 1930s was a payment for revolutionary disobedience. The revolution was remembered by a large number of vivid episodes. Let me look at just a few of them. It all began with the creation of the Central Council, which in a short time turned into a representative parliament, declared the Ukrainian People's Republic, adopted its Constitution, dozens of laws. I have no idea that sooner or later our Parliament will return to its first name as the Ukrainian Central Council. I'll remember the battle under the Kruts. [[Applause]] I'll mention the battle under the Kruts, which was a symbol of sacrifice in the struggle for a young state. But it must be said that during the revolutionary years, Ukrainians have fought many victories with the aggressor, but not all have been properly recorded in historical memory. For example, in February 18th, the Zvenigrad Basket of Free Cossacks defeated Muraviov's troops at Bobrinsky Station. And I'm going to remind you of the famous battle with the denikinians of the Ukrainian rebel army of the Machnovites in September 19th near the village of Pregonivka, in which the Ukrainian insurgents defeated several select white army regiments. It is especially worth mentioning that the UNR and the Western Ukrainian People’s Republic are united into a single congregational state. The creation of the Academy of Sciences, the Academy of Arts, the National Library of Ukraine, the financial system, two universities, hundreds of secondary schools, the Ukrainian press. All of this is the gains of the revolution. They're not well studied by historians. But they are far from completely embedded in historical memory. The history of the revolution, whether academically or popular, in school textbooks or university textbooks, whether in literature or film, and especially in public media space, is a huge resource for the mobilization of the nation, for the formation of Ukrainian identity. It would be a sin not to take advantage of them. I support in every way the idea of the closest relationship between our modern state and the fundamental values of the Ukrainian Revolution. If the Cossack’s past filled the Ukrainians with love for freedom, the revolution instilled in them a gene of democracy. Let's take care of him! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u7	Thank you. The Blessed Lubomir is the Supreme Archbishop of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u8	Mr. Head! Your Holiness! Honourable deputies, national deputies, worthy guests! Today we are celebrating an event that took place in Ukraine, and most importantly, here in Kiev, 100 years ago. Government men were present, but let me mention not only the event but also the people present. Dearly respected grandparents, parents and mothers, who were here and who at that time and with responsible people began a great deal of work -- the reconstruction of our Ukrainian state. History, as this great work developed, is very complex. They were very beautiful, very bright moments. Sadly, there were also many tragic moments. And perhaps there were more of them, for this great work of ours had to pass through the handful of two world warriors of various kinds of occupation and persecution. In short, it is very complex and far from as joyful if history were to be. But if it wasn't there, we're left with ourselves and we've gained experience of the actual, sometimes very bitter experience, we've learned that we can't think of as the ideal of accumulation of material wealth or individuals, or families, or communities, or political groups, or those who so gladly and generously pay for listening -- all of these are ruining a big deal. We learned that. But we also learned something very beautiful. We learned that political activity is one of the highest. It's one of the high sacrifices. A person who is entrusted with his or her destiny must carefully consider his or her calling. It must see humans as God’s creatures, as individuals given dignity, freedom. They must also see that any solution to the problems, the needs of these good people require a very true, just, and deep solution. They have to realize how our experience is, that it happens, that together we can grasp what we need to achieve, namely, that every citizen of our nation feels protected, desirable, so that we can collectively reach a state that is called, of course, a social good, where every citizen feels truly protected. It seems to me that we have acquired this experience and are still gaining, and we are enriching ourselves, and so there is hope, a real hope that a great deal will come true. Today we can turn to our grandparents, to our parents, mothers, and tell them, we thank you for being so courageous about the big deal, we thank you, we thank you very much. And we want to assure you that by taking you for ourselves, for example, we will truly want from the bottom of our heart, without feeling sorry for any sacrifice on our part, we will strive for the great work that you have so courageously begun to accomplish. This is the thought I would like to share with all of you that we will be with God’s help if we try to imitate those who have taken the courage of the great thing that we, with God’s help, will lead to the conclusion where each of us will feel happy in his own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u9	The head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, Vladimir Mikhajlović, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u10	On August 24, 1991, the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was preparing to adopt one of the most important decisions in its history. A decision that was actually the last, since it placed a mark on the existence of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. Proposals for the adoption of this decision were proposed by the then democratic minority. But the fact that they were willing to support thousands of people on the streets forced them to accept the approved and generally uncompromising Communist majority of parliament. Even though the streets were under pressure, there was no need for heated discussions. It was not without the necessary concessions on the part of democracy. As a result, a document commissioned to prepare one of the greatest moral authorities in the democratic camp — the multi - year - old political prisoner Leuk Lukyanka — changed its name. He wrote "The Act of Restoration of Independence of Ukraine" called the Act of Declaration of Independence of Ukraine. This seemingly insignificant concession to the Communists, which their opponents agreed to, actually played a decisive role during the next two decades of our nation's development, because the independent Ukraine thus deviated from previous attempts to establish its statehood, renounced the legacy of Ukrainian liberation throughout the 20th century. Its appearance on the world map was viewed as possible not because of the long, almost a century-long struggle of Ukrainians, but because of the unique international political conjuncture that led to the collapse of the Soviet Union. The denial of the legacy of liberation allowed the former communists to keep in the social consciousness generally Soviet ideas of the past. This, in turn, allowed them to continue to remain the ruling elite of the newly proclaimed Ukrainian State, in effect, to continue the actual existence of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic even after August 24, 1991. In 1992, the handover to President Kravchuk of the National Relics of the Ukrainian People’s Republic became a fine symbolic act, but it was quickly forgotten. Twice after 1991, right in 2004, then in 2013-14, Ukrainians went up to the unprecedented protests to prevent the authorities from allowing the country to return to the authoritarian past. Only after the second time, after the Dignity Revolution, which was paid for by blood, did we systematically overcome the totalitarian legacy. The decommunization law passed in this room two years ago allowed thousands of monuments to be disposed of by those who destroyed the Ukrainian state in 1917-1921, those who destroyed the Ukrainian people 70 years after that. Their names have finally disappeared from the map of our country. [[Applause]] Among the new names that appeared there, particularly those related to the 1917-1921 Ukrainian Revolution. By the law on the legal status of participants in the struggle for Independence, today’s state has finally paid tribute to all those who, with weapons in their hands or nonviolent methods, approached this Independence, particularly the soldiers of the formation. The armed formation of the era of the Ukrainian Revolution 1917-1921. Thus, Ukraine gradually regains a state - owned inheritance that was so recklessly renounced 25 years ago. The purpose of the information work that the Ukrainian Institute for National Memory is to remind us of these events of the Ukrainian Revolution of the century, to remind us that we are now truly celebrating the creation of the Ukrainian Central Council, and to talk about the century of the Ukrainian Parliament. We'll also talk about centuries of Ukrainian government, we'll talk about centuries of Armed Forces, diplomacy, the Academy of Sciences. It is very important for us to tell not only the Ukrainians, but also the world to deny one of the key thesis of Russian propaganda -- that Ukraine is a geopolitical misunderstanding that emerged on the map of the world after the collapse of the Soviet Union. But it's important not only to talk about the legacy of the 1917-1921 Ukrainian Revolution, it's important to talk about it, and it's been said repeatedly today, about its lessons, cruel lessons. The reality of these lessons is that Ukraine is now opposed to the same Russian aggression. The relevance of these lessons is due to the fact that our century - old war for freedom is still going on. The lessons of the 1917-1921 Ukrainian Revolution should be carefully studied by modern politicians. One of the most important lessons here in Ukraine is that each of them may have friends, allies, competitors, opponents, opponents, but the enemies to be fought are indeed, uncompromisingly, outside of Ukraine in Russia, which is fighting against all of us. Competitors, rivals, opponents may see Ukraine as different in the future, but enemies simply do not see it in the future. They can pretend to be allies or even friends, they can make tempting proposals to fight opponents, but they must not be forgotten, their goal is to destroy this state. The participants in the 1917-1921 Ukrainian Revolution understood this lesson too late, so they left the country to their enemies, so they wrote their very interesting and instructive memoirs in the cafes of Vienna, Paris or Berlin. Today, we still have a chance to make it possible for the offspring to read about our era without broaching. We'll take this chance to the full. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u11	Heroic glory! And the Holy Patriarch of Kyiv and all of Russia-Ukraine, Filaret, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u12	Dear national deputies, distinguished diplomatic corps, distinguished guests, dear journalists! We are celebrating today the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution. We're celebrating, not celebrating. Why aren't we celebrating? And because the Ukrainian Revolution has created the Ukrainian State, and the Ukrainian State has failed to protect itself. But the church was actively involved in the creation of the Ukrainian State, as the Ukrainian Autocal Orthodox Church was formed. Why? Because a state without a church, an independent church, cannot exist. And for that, we can give a lot of historical examples. That is why the State can exist only if there is an independent Ukrainian Church. [[Applause]] But the existence of a state, as we all well understand, requires an army. A state that does not have an army cannot last long. And that's why the enemies of the Ukrainian State destroyed the Ukrainian army first, then destroyed the Ukrainian Auto-Cefal Church, but the main reason why the Ukrainian state ceases to exist is because of the absence of the unity of the Ukrainians themselves. [[Applause]] This is a lesson in history, and again we find ourselves in the same position as our grandparents. We allowed almost the destruction of the Ukrainian army, we divided the Ukrainian Church into two parts: Kiev and Moscow. And now our enemy, our original enemy, has created conditions to destroy our Ukrainian state. But God is with us. God is with us, because the second time we got the state, not because of the revolution, but because we got manna from heaven in 91st year. And now we are going through a test, a second test: do we, Ukrainians, deserve to have our own state and live in a free state, or are we in a yoke again? This time our people say, "No, we will never go into slavery again." We've created an army, a new army that is actually capable of protecting our nation today. And we are grateful to our soldiers who are protecting our Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] The aggressor understands that he will not take us with weapons because we have a worthy army. Our people sacrifice everything they can on our Armed Forces for our volunteer battalions. At the same time, our enemy, the aggressor, does not give up hope of winning over Ukraine. Why doesn't he lose? And he's hoping to get us inside. Arguing like patriots, patriots with patriots. Can patriots and patriots fight? I guess they can. And who would benefit from that? Ukraine's benefits? It's convenient for an aggressor. And you have to have a mind, a bright mind to understand what we're doing and who we're serving, when we're resisting a party against a party, against each other. [[Applause]] The same is true in the Church. The church is divided. And one Ukrainian and the other Ukrainian. But one independent is the Kyiv Patriarchate, and the other is dependent. But there are Ukrainians. Why are they not united in one independent church? Because the foolish, the foolish, do not know who they are serving. Here you remember when President Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko awarded the prizes of the Hero of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, did not stand up, honor the heroes, and said that we could not honor the murderers. For us, they're heroes, and for him they're killers. Can such spiritual persons serve the Ukrainian State? They can't. That is why we stand for the only local Orthodox Church to defend the interests of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian State, and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. [[Applause]] We are grateful to the Supreme Council for sending a letter to the Universal Patriarch in support of giving the Kyiv Patriarchate tomás, a document of recognition of the Ukrainian Church’s autocephaly. On behalf of our church, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the national deputies. [[Applause]] And to conclude, I want to call on everyone, not just the Supreme Council, but the government to unity, because in unity, our power is ours. And we repeat those words, and we do everything the other way around. So if we want to win and we want to win, we need to unite. To unite around what? Around the protection of the Ukrainian state from the aggressor, everything else is secondary, important, but secondary, because if there is no Ukrainian state, all the other questions make no sense. And that's what we need to understand. There is a state, we can solve our problems freely in this country, we can bring order. But if there is no state, all our labors are in vain, just as the Ukrainian Revolution was in vain, unable to defend its Ukrainian state. So let us not repeat the error of our predecessors. I think we have enough intelligence to unite in defense of the Ukrainian state. On April 2, this year, we announced a prayer for victory over the aggressor throughout Ukraine in all the district centers. And we urge the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, the Greek-Catholic Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Protestant churches to unite in prayer to help us defeat the aggressor. And on the second day, on Monday, on the third, we urge everyone to fast, who can fast, who can fast, who can't eat all day, and who can't eat all day, before lunch. And in the same way, we show that we want to defeat our aggressor, we ask God to help us. And so we honor the army, we trust, we honor, but our hope is in God’s hands, and we should be helped, so we will pray to him. Praise Jesus Christ! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u13	Honorable fellow MPs, honored invited! I want to thank everyone for participating in the ceremony, I want to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and I want to thank all representatives of the government. I would also like to report that after the ceremony, there will be an exhibition "100 Years of the First Ukrainian Parliament." The exhibits from the collection of famous historian Viktor Kirkewicz are here in the Hall of the Supreme Council. I'd like to invite you to the opening of this exhibition. And I'm calling a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution 1917-1921.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m1.u14	Glory to Ukraine!
