ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u1	Good morning. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we move on to registration? We can. Please prepare for registration and register. Please. [[10:03:01]] 330 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I want to remind you that today we have two clusters of issues: the first question is education, the characteristics of access for people with special educational needs; then the block of media and advertising. And I want to point out that we have the main law on this block to be the Law on Audiovisual (Electronic) Media (5313). This is another step to defend our national space and our language. Now in wartime, it's a matter of national security. You and I have already adopted the Radio Station Quotas Act and we have seen the Renaissance of the Ukrainian Song. And today we have a chance, and we have a need and a duty to adopt a similar law for television. In the face of a hybrid war against Ukraine, language on Russia's side today is not just communication, language is now a weapon, and arms are not given to the enemy. Therefore, I would like to support this law, which provides for a mandatory part of Ukrainian language on national channels – 75 per cent and 50 per cent on regional ones. A great deal of work was done on the committee. And I'm asking that all the national MPs be in the room, we're going to need enough votes to support this law. Second block. These will be environmental issues, issues that are important to us and to Euro-integration. And I'll also ask my fellow national MPs to be active and effective in considering these two thematic days today during the plenary. Hopefully, the day will be full, effective, and effective. And now we're moving on to the first part of the working day, this is 30 minutes of performances by authorized MPs. I want to emphasize that the recording is done through an electronic system. And I'm asking all the heads and representatives of factions who are willing to take part in the presentations to prepare for the recording. So please record statements from MP factions and groups. Colleagues, and I ask all factions and groups to participate in the record. Please record. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich conveys the word to Julia Volodymyrny Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u2	Dear friends! I want to start by saying that now in Ukraine, after two revolutions, democracy is virtually collapsing, the freedom of speech that people have chosen so hard, including those who have died on Mayday. Today, the President's Administration has just set up a terror against the Party of the Fatherland Team. They don't let us in, personally, on any direct air, and if they do, they're putting pressure on those people who are on the air, they're just dirtying our team, and they're organizing these kind of broadcasts in special technologies. I want to say that since Yanukovich's time, it's just worth a sequel to all of these stories. But at the same time, our team will overcome this informational dirty blockade, we'll go to people and talk to people directly. In addition, so - called new reform packages have now begun: pension reform, health reform, land market reform, energy market reform, and the destruction of the economic situation of every Ukrainian family. And I can tell you about the pension reform, that our team will strictly split the pension reform into two parts. The first is mandatory, for the government of Groysman, full-scale pension indexation, per cent of real inflation, and also mandatory, by law, for the modernisation of pensions, which had to lead to an increase in pensions at least twice over the last three years. For three years this has not been done and is now trying to conceal the real destruction of the rights of future pensioners and pensioners today by the so - called increase in pensions that need to be made, not within the framework of pension reform, but within the framework of the modernization of pensions required for the implementation of the law, and within the framework of the indexation of pensions, which is mandatory. They are trying to show that pensions have been increased as a reform, and this is their duty, and also the abolition of pension taxes for working pensioners. The Fatherland Act has been in Parliament for two years now, and we need to adopt and abolish this tax. But the real pension reform they're proposing is actually going to increase insurance. People who do not work 35 years without a permanent retirement will not have the right to receive an old-age pension. And that means people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u4	People will receive pensions, unfortunately, starting at 63, 65 years of age and over, depending on their work experience. You can't vote hard for that. And that's why "Paternity" for raising pensions is mandatory, but against this pension reform, which has been packaged into pension increases, and they want to extend the strategy of destroying Ukrainian pensioners. I ask the hall to take the same position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u5	From "The Will of the People" Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u6	The venerable Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u7	Passes the word to Ribczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! For a week now, Ukrainian society has been indignant about the fact that Russian social networks have been shut down. I think it's actually happiness, because it had to be done four more years ago, three more years ago, when we saw Russian Green Men in Crimea. My conscientious and absolutely patriotic position is that even on Facebook and Twitter social networks, we have to get rid of all the Russian stuff, but unfortunately we don't run it. And it's not because, unfortunately, the information policy of the state today is zero. Three years ago, we created the Ministry of Information Policy, which only exists on paper. Paper, what is paper? The paper will hold everything. But that policy that is today is zero. See, the altitude of Karachuna was rebuilt only in December, that is, in the occupied territory, and the adjacent had no English language at all until, in fact, the new year. It's an unacceptable story. Even our ATO fighters there are forced to listen and watch all Russian, and instead they cannot choose anything Ukrainian. In three years, the Ministry of Information Policy has not created any Ukrainian social network. No tender or grant has been awarded, unfortunately. We'd already have our own Ukrainian network, which would have millions of people. But I understand why it happened literally that week. The point is that in 2014, about 10 million people voted for Peter Alexiyovich, and there are 25 million people in Russian social networks who didn't vote for him, so why do they need them when they're totally out of place in the next election? And that's probably the only major reason they're closing. Unfortunately, we're not affecting Facebook and Twitter today. On Facebook and Twitter, there's not even a propaganda page of Ukraine, where it's properly and properly represented. Ukraine's Wikipedia page is just a horror, it doesn't represent the country, it presents our politicians in fact. We have open pages of the highest echelon of power, they're pearing themselves, but none of them are pyariing Ukraine, and without Ukraine they're zero. So I urge, this week on Friday, to call on the minister of information policy, who has been in office for three years and has never reported. Let him tell you what's going on in the information room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds. Ah, you're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u10	What exactly is the impact of Russian propaganda on Ukrainian society? First of all, Russia is artificially making a fuss around the language issue. It just doesn't exist. Moreover, I have never seen anyone who speaks Russian beat, but there are many instances of beating a person who speaks Ukrainian instead. I want social justice, I want us to finally start and finish the process of Ukrainianization. Thank you very much. Let us vote for quota laws today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u11	Thank you, I'm counting on the whole group to vote with discipline. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, last week has shown that the effectiveness of Parliament's work continues to drop to zero and with it the level of confidence of citizens. Last week, only one law was passed, which is of real benefit – the law on feeding the children of displaced persons. Everything else is about finding the enemy, first of all, the opposition. In addition, attempts to gain freedom of speech by shutting down access to social networks and blocking accounting software have been negatively perceived in society. There is no response from Parliament to these decisions, as there is to most socio-economic challenges of society. In meetings with the electorate, you can hear more and more the question: "Why are MPs meeting at all? Let them rest!" Last week was an attempt to present a pension reform. The main problem, the deficit of the Pension Fund, in the government is offered to cover it with insurance-care manipulations. It's another lie where the word "reform" sounds like a new way to take money from the people. In a country where one pensioner is employed, where the average wage is 6,000 dollars, the pension may not be more than one and a half thousand. Moreover, given the economic crisis, the labour migration of the pension fund will worsen and we will be offered another reform every time. So the first step in pension reform is to start an economy and create new jobs. The second step is to lower tariffs and taxes to raise wages and get business out of the shadows. What you can do right now to increase pensions is to cut down on the budget and use inflation revenue, together that's 70 billion dollars to support pensioners. And lastly, I propose to hear a detailed report from the government without the political blackmail of the national deputies by the possible resignation of Kabmin. I want to remind you that in all countries, they vote in favour of government confidence. We need a concrete programme to stabilize the country's economic situation. Real structural transformations are needed in the social sphere that would suit the interests of the least protected segments of the population of Ukraine, not the demands of Western creditors whose money is held by valid authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, more than a month ago, we joined you in rejecting the attack of the NCREKP and today's power in conspiring with the oligarchs on your wallets. The NCRECR has put in place payment for gas counters and no matter how much gas they use, everyone would have to pay an additional 200-300 dollars per month for using gas counters. After millions of people throughout Ukraine went up, after the Radical Party team had visited the NCREKP several times, to the government, we had to cancel the decision on subscription. But it turned out that we had not long enjoyed this victory. According to my information, the NCREKP is back in preparation in a culinary manner, and in secret people are preparing a decision to pay back the gas meter bill. This means that today’s authorities, in conspiracies with the oligarchs of Firthash, Ljovcken, Boyk, continue, do not abandon their intention to rob you by drawing money for using gas counters. We're talking to the NCRECR, the government with the demand to give up these robbery plans, because the cost of transporting gas, the cost of using gas networks, is already at the present price of the gas, which is 7,000 dollars. In addition, I again appeal to the government to return to state administration the state-owned gas distribution networks used for free over the years by Firtash, Ljovczyn, Boyko and the company oligarchs here in Ukraine. These gas distribution networks were built at government expense, for human money, such as rural gas pipelines. Then, by the decision of the government of Yanukovich, Azarov’s money was. These networks were transferred to free use by Firthash, Ljevcín, and the company, but Ukrainians pay billions of dollars each day in their own pocket to fill their pockets with oligarchs. And today’s power, which in conspiracies with these oligarchs, continues to allow the oligarchs to enrich themselves. I'm addressing Prime Minister Groysman. We've come to you with all the factions for a meeting, you've promised us to consider this matter without delay, to take a decision by the government, and you have an appropriate reference to Naftogazu. We demand that you fulfill the promises you made and return the national gas distribution networks to the government. I demand that you stop enriching yourself at the expense of the oligarchs. Every person in Ukraine today pays money to have Firthash, Ljowczyn, and the company charge their pockets, and then for these stolen money, they get back into power. Stop robbing Ukrainians! Return the nation's national networks!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u16	Dear friends! Of course, I don't want to put oil in the fire about pension reform. We understand that this was about saving the pension fund. Unfortunately, the method and method of economics is not very correct, in our view, the rebirth party, but more precisely, it is completely illogical. Economics at the expense of raising the state. Work and economics by raising retirement age -- well, sorry, that's a little bit of bullying, that's not the way our faction always talks about. We're talking about, if we're going to fill the Pension Fund, we need to be able to get off our knees and get on our feet with normal industry, factories, businesses, put business on its feet, take off the raises, the rate of tariffs, the pressure on businesses. And then the growth of the economy starts, then the growth in production starts, then the raise in wages. And by raising wages, the pension fund will begin to be filled. This is the only right method in Ukraine today that has the right to life, and everything else is from the wicked one. But there are two very practical questions that I want to raise. Last week there was a rally under the parliament of Ukraine's Chernobylites. The Speaker of Parliament, Andrija Volodymyrovich, was handed over tens of thousands of copies of the Chernobyl signatures that require their return to what they really deserved. 31 years ago, they risked their lives to save Ukraine, to save Europe from radiation. In 2004, they took everything: they took the benefits, they took the right to a normal pension, and so on. Our party, together with the Chernobyls, developed Bill 6292, which deals with these issues: return to benefits, return social assistance, return a normal pension to those black people who actually saved the lives of Ukrainians today. We demand that this issue be put to the vote. Tens of thousands of signatures have been collected, transmitted, and thousands of signatures are now being gathered throughout the country. That's the real price of the issue that needs to be resolved here in Parliament. And I don't believe anyone will vote for it. I think the hall will unanimously support this issue, and it can be resolved very quickly. The question is whether the authorities want to help the Chernobylers or not. I think we should put it to a vote, and we demand it. Second, we demand that Bill No. 6063 be put to the vote for help to young families, for assistance in the birth of children. The point is that the State has to return help with the birth of children from 72,000 to nearly 90,000, depending on what kind of child they give birth to — first, second or third — a young family. The point is that mortality is now almost twice as high as birth in Ukraine. In the first quarter alone, only 59 were born to nearly 100. People are good, it is necessary to have a government program to support young families. We need to help with our birth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u17	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u18	We have to solve this question. You have to give government support to young families, building loans, housing loans. Provide support for the birth of children. And then the state will have a perspective. Otherwise, mortality will be absorbed, birth will fall, and the rest of the young will go to Europe through a visa-free income regime and will never come back here. I propose to support this bill and put it to a vote. I think the hall will back us up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u19	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Arthur Gerasimov, "The Petra Prashenko Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you once again that yesterday an official magazine of the European Union published the Law on the granting of visa-free treatment to Ukrainian citizens. Since June 11, Ukraine has been free to cross the border of the European Union. However, the importance of obtaining visa liberalisation is far more hidden than simply being able to travel without hindrance to Europe. This is the final and irreversible way out of Moscow's orbit, the fat spot in more than 300 years' history of using Ukraine as an imperial supplement. The President of Ukraine, in support of Parliament, carried out one of the founding positions of his electoral program: Ukraine returns to the European house, restoring historical justice. Last plenary week we started with a very important decision: we supported a bill that allows the graduates of schools from temporarily occupied territories to enter simplified conditions in Ukrainian universities and higher education institutions. This is the basis for building an intellectual bridge between Ukraine and occupied territories. That's why the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party expresses its gratitude to all those who supported that law. Today we're starting the same thing with the most important question: education. The Act (6437) on inclusive education, introduced by the President of Ukraine, is the first in the agenda. We have about 3 million people with special needs, the state must create all the right conditions so that each person can exercise their right to education, acquire a profession and feel implemented in society. This whole way starts with accessible schooling. Last Thursday's faction of the Peter Prashenko Party initiated the creation of a working group to develop a government package of medical reform laws. I would like to remind you that the first meeting of this working group will take place today at 12.05 p.m., so we invite all interested fellow MPs to join in the work. We have very strict terms that by the end of the sixth session, the basics of medical reform and the direction of its implementation should be laid under this dome. The Ukrainian medical sector needs radical changes, fundamental reforms, and renewal. The experience of previous years, when previous governments tried to carry out medical reform aids, showed that simple people suffer the most from such experiments. That is why we look forward to the support and cooperation of all political forces. We stress that it is unacceptable to use the subject of medical reform for political intrigue and our own ratings now, but professional dialogue and coherence are needed. The question of the continuation of judicial reform is also acute. It is no longer possible to postpone the inclusion in the order of the daily fundamental bills for its continuation. This is about Law 6232, which proposes systemic changes to a series of codes to improve the work of the courts, as well as laws 6233 and 6427. On this important issue, we ask the colleagues in the session room to consolidate all forces and urge them to take a very responsible view of these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u21	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Oleg Beresuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u22	Your Honour, Madam Chairman, Your Honourable Colleagues! Addiction is a terrible reality of the Ukrainian State and of the Ukrainian society. Those young people who are successful, they want to leave, find their destiny in learning or living in better countries. Sadly, those who cannot do so give in to addiction. Such an enormous number of drug - or alcohol - dependent people may not have been in the history of this land. But this addiction is a direct result of another terrible addiction and, more faithfully, two that are related to each other. It's a colonizer addiction, a post-colonial addiction, a dependence on the Russian Empire and the Russian oligarhat. And the second addiction is it depends on the vulgar accumulation of money and vulgar capitalism. Dependence on the Russian Empire leads to the fact that power that depends on it does not want to recognize reality and adopt the Act on Occupied Territories and thus makes it dependent on those people who live in occupied territories and who are lawless because there is no law or Ukrainian or Russian or international. The dependence of an army that today cannot legally protect its land in an open way because it looks at any pseudo-dependence on the Minsk treaties. Today Parliament must become independent and accept reality and adopt the Act on Occupied Territories. But there are other addictions. Today, people demand quality medical care, which has practically disappeared in Ukraine and holds on to two pillars — people’s money and the enthusiasm of doctors. And what does the dependent parliament do? The independent parliament stops the reform that started the same dependent government. Pension reform. It is very important to modernize pensions. It's very important to pay back and cancel the 15 percent pension tax. But it's not reform, it's the right thing to give to people. But you have to do the audit and count it. Yesterday, the Prime Minister says he needs 12 billion to make his pension. 12 billion at least goes into a pipe every year, because we don't know how many pensioners we have and how much the Pension Fund spends, that depends on someone wanting to get rich. This whole addiction is due to the fact that we have a post-colonial dependence on the past.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u24	To get rid of corruption, this Parliament must become free and adopt a law on elections on a proportional basis with open lists. And this is the prophylaxis of political dependence on Russian Eastern despotism and Ukrainian vulgar oligarchial capitalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u26	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people, fellow MPs! Last week, the leader of the People's Front, Arseny Yatzenuk, was on a business visit to the United States and Canada. A series of meetings took place with the representatives of Bordeaux, Congress, and the Senate, representatives of the Canadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with real friends of Ukraine, Joe Biden, and Barack Obama. The main reports Arsenius Yatzenuk gave to our strategic partners were the following. First. Ukraine is going to NATO and the EU and there is no other discussion. The other one. The sanctions pressure on Russia should increase, sanctions should expand and sectoral sanctions should be conducted. Third. Ukraine protects not only itself but also NATO borders, Ukraine's security depends on Europe's peace and future, so we need Western weapons. Four. The liberation of Donbas from the Russian occupation must be resolved in just one packet with the occupation of Crimea. These were the main ones of Arsenius Yatsenuk for our allies. But here, in Ukraine, we have to use all possible and justifiable methods to fight the aggressor, too. Extending the list of sanctions against Russia is a constant requirement of the People's Front. Because sanctions are an effective tool for weakening the aggressor. It is unfortunate that last week the Supreme Council's decree on personal sanctions against the Janukovic environment was broken down in this room. But we will certainly register a new, expanded and, eventually, we will see that sanctions against the Janukovich environment are accepted by this Supreme Council. By the way, we welcome the removal from Ukraine of the Kremlin curator of the Inter Channel and the collaborator of Stolar Igor Shuvalov. Thank you so much for doing this to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Too bad the Ukrainian Security Service didn't do it before. And this is where I'm going to remind you of the introduction of the visa regime with Russia. Each Shuvalov created and unearned ruble in Ukraine is an enemy's downfall. Today, there is a bill (5313) that amends certain laws regarding language, audiovisual media. This bill provides for the introduction of a 75 percent speaking quota, state-speaking on Ukrainian television. The People's Front faction calls on the people's deputies to support the bill. Next. On April 28, the five - year deadline for Valérie Lutkowski to serve as Ombudsman ended. The People's Front faction is proposing to Parliament the election of People's Deputy Ludmila Denisov of the Supreme Council for Human Rights. We are convinced that Ludmila Denisov will loyally defend human rights. Ludmila Leontiyevna accompanied us through Majdan, was the chief of the Yellow Palace, and then protected the right of people to freedom and dignity. She is also well aware of the terrible state of human rights in Crimea, since she is a native of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. She is well aware of the violation of Ukrainian rights on the peninsula after Russia’s annexation of Crimea and of the systematic persecution of the Crimean Tatars. These and other problems need the attention of the Authorized One. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u28	And that's why the People's Front faction believes that Humanis Dennis is capable of doing all of this, and it won't be silent to observe how they demean human dignity. She would never have closed her office at the time of the shooting of young people in Maidan, as she did. It happened in a region that's trying to stay in this position all the time. Our faction also appeals to the National Deputies to support Mrs. Denisov's candidacy as the best and most responsible candidate for the post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u29	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Maxim. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We move on to the first issue of the agenda. It's a draft law amending the Education Act of Ukraine on the characteristics of access for people with special educational needs. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please take up jobs and support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[10:36:21]] For-138 I'm going to put it again, colleagues, I'm asking you more carefully, you know, the whole logic of the day can be confused if we go into an hourly review of the law that is actually supported by everyone and is completely unifying in the room. Please take up jobs. Once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to review draft Law 6437 under a reduced procedure. Colleagues, every voice matters, please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[10:37:12]] For a hundred and 145. Colleagues, I beg of you. Is there a vote? Colleagues, let's mobilize. It's okay, isn't it? Then let's continue the discussion, I'll re-supply 6437 on a simplified procedure. Colleagues, please vote responsibly and in agreement. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:38:07]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! In 2009, Ukraine ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which took effect in Ukraine in March 2010. The convention stated that Ukraine has made a number of commitments in this area, including ensuring the right of persons with disabilities to education. Its implementation includes the need to build an education system towards the creation of a school that will also ensure the realization of the right to education, particularly in inclusive learning. To date, about 10 percent of children in Ukraine need that right when taking into account their needs and educational needs. For the purpose of resolving a significant issue, the President of Ukraine has been introduced to Parliament and is defined as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Education Act (registration number 6437). The bill proposes to define the concept of a person with special educational needs, "inclusive education", "individual development programme of a person with special educational needs", to strengthen the right of citizens of Ukraine to education in all educational institutions, regardless of their educational needs; to establish a distance and individual form of education; to strengthen the availability of educational services at a place of residence for persons with special educational needs; to provide schools with the right to create inclusive and special classes for persons with special educational needs, as well as classes or groups with remote forms of education. In particular, it should be noted that funding for the measures envisaged in the bill will be made at the expense of subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets, local budgets and other sources not prohibited by legislation. In view of the above, I ask that the draft Ukrainian law be supported with registration number 6437 on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u31	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u32	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, Bill 6437, which was submitted by the President of Ukraine and prepared by the group of counsellors of Marina Anatolovna Poshenko, followed for the first time by an appropriate experiment, is a bill which for the first time determines what a person is for special educational needs, what an inclusive education is, determines the rights of those persons and determines the order of their education in ordinary schools. This, first, enables Ukrainian children who have special needs to socialize with children who have normal needs and ordinary children to be able to communicate and socialize with children who have special needs. This is a very powerful step that the Supreme Council is taking on the legalization of learning opportunities for people with special needs in the educational space of Ukraine. I would like to point out that this bill also gives an appropriate step and an appropriate context for the adoption and basic Education Act as a whole, which we hope will be considering on July 11th in this room. So I'm asking you to support the decision of the profile committee that voted entirely 7:0 for this bill, which asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u33	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Please. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I want to tell you the good news. On Monday, a new group of the Bars Sports Base opens up in Suma. This is the base of the Olympic reserve, where our children from all over Ukraine will have the opportunity to live in decent conditions to train, so that Ukraine will have new champions: Olympics, world champions, European champions. This hostel is built up by the efforts of the Radical Party team. I encourage each of you to build, not your own property, but hostels for children, youth housing, sports bases, stadiums, sports schools. Because a healthy lifestyle, physical culture and sport is the guarantee of our future country, because when our children are involved in sports, they don't have time to sit around, fight, drink, run around, and then fall drunk under walls. The Radical Party policy is one: the Ukrainian nation must be educated and healthy. To that end, our Dennis Silantiev, responsible for a healthy way of life in the Radical Party, will be responsible for a healthy way of life throughout Ukraine when the Radical Party comes to power. In every village we have a stadium, in every center, a sports school, in every area, a swimming pool, every Ukrainian boy and girl will be involved in sports, physical arts, and we will be hosting sports and sports parades in Krestatika. For the whole country to see that Ukrainian boys and girls are the most beautiful, the smartest, the most developed, the most talented. Stop humiliating the Ukrainians! Love Yourself and Respect! And your home land!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u35	Nemirovsky Andri Valentine's Day, Peter Poshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u36	I give the word to Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Froll's Mikola, Peter Dusty Block. I urge you all to support this bill. This bill should essentially unite the entire room because it is not party, it is not political. This bill confirms the strategic direction that Ukraine has chosen for itself: the direction of European development, the direction of humanism, the direction of universal support for children, those children who today have, unfortunately, health problems with physical and mental development. The bill is aimed at radically updating the entire legislative framework related to inclusive education. He's worked by the best professionals in our country, he's worked by experts from abroad, from those countries that support our European development path. I believe that this bill should unite the entire room. Once again, it has nothing to do with parties, it has nothing to do with politics. This bill has a bearing on children who need our help. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u38	Thank you. By "Will of the People" Litvin Volodymir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u39	The Honourable Head, the honourable national deputies, is a well - known truth: more intelligence — closer to God. I think we're dealing with a bill today that shows that our minds are still waking up. It is clear that this decision is too late, and it must be taken. We discussed this bill in detail on the committee. And we have a few details. I would ask that they be included in the voting on the basis and in general. The bill states that local authorities can provide free transportation to children with special needs. Tell me, dear fellows, what can they do? This means that they will not be provided with a ride to the places of learning. We ask, and that was the committee's decision, the word "can" remove and write imperatively "provide the children's ride" and wherever the word "may" is, remove it so that the norm is clearly and unequivocally written. And at the same time, my dear colleagues, we need, while we're making this decision, to be careful about boarding schools, about boarding schools where children with special needs are taught, so that this doesn't lead to such boarding schools being closed. And that's what's happening right now. For example, in the district of Žitomir, Doubian boarding school. Children there are cared for, teachers have a method of working with such children. At the same time, attempts to shut down the school were suspended. The same is true of boarding school in Novograd-Wolinski. So I'm asking that we place a distinction here between the adoption of this law and the proper functioning of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u40	Thank you. From Fatherland, Ivan Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u41	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, we have considered this law in detail at the committee meeting. And there was indeed a proposal, despite the observation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, taking into account the suggestions that have just been made from my colleague's mouth and other things that might sound like technical remedies. But to vote it now as a basis and as a whole. Because the school year is ending, the introductory company is ahead of schedule, and it is necessary for this law to be timely and appropriate for the kind of children that are supposed to be here. The law is, of course, designed to humanize educational procedures, and that is the main thing. Its purpose is to make education as accessible as possible for children with special educational needs. Unfortunately, such children, who are correctly identified as children with special needs, are becoming more and more in society. Hence, the law offers a number of mechanisms to improve, simplify, and resolve the problem. In particular, accessibility is provided for persons with special educational needs, especially through inclusive education and by place of residence. An individual development program is foreseen, and this is also extremely important. Individual classes or special classes are envisaged on the basis of the usual written address of a person or parent. There's also a similar procedure in vocational and technical schools, and it's also very important. The right of such children to learn through the most accessible languages, methods and methods of communication is ensured, and I would also like to stress this, particularly in sign language and Braille. A distance form of higher education is also introduced. All that may be modern is in this law. Plus subsidisation funding from the state budget is also very important for children of the same state to take care of.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u42	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u43	"Paternality" suggested that the committee meet on a basis and in general, and we now ask colleagues to consider those technical comments that have a serious sense of burden, to take them into account when working and to vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the timeliness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u44	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. There will be a vote in a minute, so I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and the secretariat to invite the deputies into the decision-making room. It's from Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u45	The introduction of inclusive education is a worldview, it's a worldwide love for man and it's a worldwide belief in what man can do. As we do so in Ukraine, we give it to local self - government. And that's right. The government that is closest to people understands knows and can do better than the government or the Supreme Council. But in giving it up, let's just give 5 percent rent to the local authorities so that they have a quality service. Let us give to the local authorities and to the community the land that will be used in a qualitative way, and the income from this will be used in the name of inclusive education and faith in people. Then it's going to be a state position. Now it's just that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u46	Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. Another minute, Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u47	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The opposition bloc supports this bill and believes that it has been considerably delayed in its approval since, unfortunately, children with special needs have faced extremely serious problems in their lives over the past 25 years. At the same time, and I am confident that today the Supreme Council will support this bill and it will enter into force, a very important implementation of this law, because it is necessary to prepare the infrastructure, every educational institution, that books should be printed. Today, for example, Braille does not actually have the necessary number for all children. That's why the Opposition Block will take control and implement the bill by central and local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u48	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please. And I want to ask you, are you the author of the bill that represents the President, or is it supported by you by Vladimir Litwin? Please tell me briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, two remarks were made from "The Will of the People." See, the first observation was designed not to stop funding inclusive schools. This is why it was done by the President of Ukraine, for the support of his foundation, a pilot project that took place in Zaporezki, Hmelnicki, Žitomirski and Dnipropetrovsk oblast. This project was divided into two parts, the funding of inclusive schools and the financing of ordinary schools, where these special classes were created to enable children, at home, to receive education with their peers, so that doesn't mean that such boarding schools will be eliminated. However, taking into account another proposal made by the Lithuanian national deputy, it was suggested that children with special educational needs should be provided with a ride to their school and home, under the transcript, which suggests a further amendment. Paragraph 4 of section I of the bill should be supplemented by a paragraph of the following content: "They provide a lift for students, educators with special educational needs to the place of education and home, including school buses designed for the transport of children moving on wheelchairs." Dear colleagues, this is a rare case where this vote can be united. It's not talk, it's investing in our future state funds. Please unite and support everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u50	So, colleagues, I'm putting with the amendment that Irina Lucenko announced under the transcript. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine (as regards the specifics of access for persons with special educational needs to educational services) (number 6437), as amended by Irina Lucenko under the transcript from the Supreme Council's rostrum, on the basis and in general. I would like to support you. I would like to vote for the basis as a whole. Vote. [[10:58:15]] For 297 Three votes to 300 is not enough. The law is passed, welcome to the authors. And we're sorry, before we go to the next bill, there's an application for a break from two factions, but they've agreed to replace the break with a standoff. It's from the faction of Peter Dustenk and the People's Front. And I invite you to address the head of the Peter Dust Block, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! There has already been a bad tradition when the activation, the successful results of the prosecutor’s work, have been increased by baseless attacks on her. There are many innuendos, political speculations about their work. So I would like to remind you that, in order to relieve the tension, to eliminate all sorts of critics, and the grounds for total baseless criticism, the faction of the Peter Prashenka Party offered to invite the Attorney General into the session room so that the national MPs could hear and ask Yuri Lucenka their questions. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you to put this matter to a vote and invite the Attorney General to Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u52	Thank you, colleagues. I remember, I remember your request. All right, let's really set an hour so we don't have to have any discussion about that. Colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, put to the vote an invitation to a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Wednesday, May 24, at 12.30 p.m., U.S. Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. I remember this invitation takes 150 votes. And I ask my colleagues to vote, please support, at 12:30 tomorrow at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[11:00:24]] For 241 Decision taken. I had a previous conversation with Yuri Vitaliovich, and we agreed that there would be enough time for the question, that the minutes would be: half an hour -- a speech, then a full-reading speech, from the factions of the question, from the deputies of the question so that everyone who wants can ask questions. Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to the next, to my belief, the most important issue of the day, is the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine (for the language of audiovisual (electronic) media) (number 5313), this is the second reading. We've come to support him with our distinguished artists, colleagues who are on the balcony, who have come to hold their fists and pain for this bill, welcome them, colleagues. Welcome! And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Thank you to the most famous Ukrainian actors present: Anatolia Gnutyuk, Volodymyr Tiho, Irma Witowski, Alexia Bogdanović, Les Sanin, Natalia Sumskia, Taras Tkachenka - thank you all for your support. And I would like to emphasize that perhaps today we have a chance to make a truly historic decision in the direction of Ukrainian culture. Because television is not just a TV law, it's basically a law on the development of Ukrainian culture. Please, Mr. Head, we can begin our consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u54	So, colleagues, I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. 9th, Chervakova. Don't insist. 10th, Over Irina. Don't insist. 12th, Scorch. Don't insist. 13th. He insists, doesn't he? 13th, Scorch, does it insist? Please, 12 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! The amendment is quite extensive, and I'm going to focus on just three moments of this amendment: first, I think we should leave this quota exclusively for the public media. The second question. Excluding the content that was produced before 1991, that is, the transmissions and films that were made before 1991, so that we don't have a situation where the Diamond Hand is going to be seen in the Ukrainian duplicate. And the last question is to take into account the European language paper. I'll remind the speaker, remind the MPs that Ukraine has ratified the European Language Charter, which gives European language speakers the right to use and use freely in official life, including in the media of their own language. And I think it's artificial. The artificial oppression of these languages is a violation of European principles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u56	Dear amendment author, I understand your goal: you do not want to allow the law to be passed and lobby for the interests of certain TV channels that today speak Russian in Ukraine and have only 12 percent of the Ukrainian language. But you don't know very well, unfortunately, information legislation. The thing is, in Ukraine, there's no public media anymore, this is once, and for whom you're offering to do the quota, I don't quite understand. As for your second amendment, all the films produced before 1991 in the Soviet Union are not going to sound Ukrainian. They're going to be subtitled in Ukrainian, and it's not that hard to do that, colleagues. It's just that the Ukrainian product has to be sounded and duplicated by Ukrainian. And I still strongly recommend that the author of the amendments still respect the country in which he lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u57	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 12 of the people's MP, Scorch. Whoever supports this amendment - the committee rejected it - please vote. [[11:04:52]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 13th, Pawel. Not on. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u58	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to put my amendment to the vote. At the same time, I would like to point out that the bill came into order today with a grave violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, as was the article. Part five of article 45 foresees that 10 days are for the national deputies to get to know the comparative table that appeared only yesterday evening and this morning, and the corresponding conclusions. In addition, I have asked you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, with the request of eight amendments, to place on confirmation and ask my right not to violate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u59	Thank you. Victoria, I'd like to inform you that the bill passed today did not appear in order of the day. Like all our drafts, he was on a weekly schedule on Thursday and on Monday he was on a weekly schedule. And this bill has long been handed over to the committee. And so in this case, all the procedures have been saved, and I promise you that all of your suggestions that I have in writing will be put to the vote for confirmation. Mrs. Victoria, I suggest you put the hall to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u60	I just want to say that we all have great respect for Yuri Alexiyovich, who is a member of our committee. I'm sure he supports our bill somewhere deep in his heart.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u61	I'm sure he supports you as a patriot. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 13th National MP Pauline. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee took a stand against her. Please vote. [[11:06:55]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next, 14th, Papiev. Is it insisting? He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u62	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to ask you not to comment on the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. And before you comment, in order to understand what this is about, I will read to you the requirements of article 117 first paragraph: a bill prepared for second reading, the conclusion of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents before it shall be submitted to the Ukrainian National Deputies no later than 10 days before the day of the plenary consideration of this bill. That is, when you say that the rules of the Rules have been observed, you, in other words, say the lie, have not been. The 117 - article for the second reading of this bill has been violated. And I had a 50 percent offer and a step-by-step introduction. I'd like to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u63	Dear People's MP, when there is an appeal to me as the Head of Parliament, as to any other MP, I answer and answer. And so, please. I know you're pissed off at this law as hell, but I'm asking you to keep yourself restrained and have a professional discussion. And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 14th People's Deputies of Papiev. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[11:08:44]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 22nd. Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? 23rd, come on. Semenha, please, 23rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, number 23 refers to the mechanism for calculating the volume of Ukrainian content that is broadcast by the radio organization. The proposed bill defines only two corridors: from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m., which will provide an incredibly large number of manipulations for the pro-Russian channels. And our right to Mrs. Irina By definition, it offers four corridors: from 7 to 10 a.m., from 10 to 14th, from 14 to 18th, from 18 to 22nd. Such changes will lead to a much deeper application and quota compliance of up to 75 percent for Ukrainian content. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u65	Mrs. Victoria, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u66	I'll tell you very briefly. The thing is, television doesn't work in two hours. There are programs that last, for example, four hours. It's just that these spaces that the committee has offered are more technological in terms of channel planning. It's not a radio where one product, one song lasts three minutes, and we can measure more there. It's television, it's just longer. This is a professional discussion. But the channels in these spaces can't actually work, it's not real, it's de facto.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u67	Thank you. I put to the vote the amendment of 23 National Deputies of the Order and Semimenach, which the Committee rejected, who supports the amendment, please vote. [[11:10:41]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 24th, Sverk. Don't insist. 26th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 27th. Again? 25th, right? 25th, please. I know it's 25th, Sevrukov. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, my bill refers to the proposed weekly monitoring of quota implementation at these time intervals. What I'm saying is that we can face such a danger that unconscionable television channels are going to make Ukrainian broadcasts Monday through Friday, and on Saturday, on Sunday's prime time, it's not going to be so Ukrainian anymore, because the quota is stretched out for a week. So my proposal is to do day-to-day monitoring, and that's put*** in that direction. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, this bill has been a product of considerable compromise between the various political forces, and you know how we weighed all these things. And you know that in the case of the adoption of the day measure, we can just lose the law. So let the hall be defined. I suggest we hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u70	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 25th National MP, Sevrukov. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:12:22]] For 139 The decision is not made. On the 26th, please, Andrew Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u71	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Lina Vasilyvna Kostenko wrote that the nations do not die of heart attacks, but first they take away their language. We are this law, honourable colleagues, restoring historical justice, because dozens, hundreds of documents, have been long for the ban on Ukrainian language. This process of ruseization all the years, this is the process of captivity, this is the process of the Romulanization of the Bukovina, at last, after the 91st year we had, I wanted to emphasize, because there are many manipulations in the media right now. By 2012, 75 percent of the quota for Ukrainian language had actually worked, and then we had, in a time of independence, a disgrace like the new ruse by the Yanukovic regime. Now we're just restoring historical justice. I call on all MPs not just to vote, but to maximize their vote, because the lobbyists of the Inter Channel are doing everything they can to break this law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u72	27th Amendment, Hanna Gopko, please. Twenty-seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u73	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Twenty-sixth year of independence, third year of Russian aggression. And in this room, we're looking at the compromise text of the bill to approve something. Thus, this amendment is designed to count part of the Ukrainian language for a time rather than for a week, as provided for by the Act on Part of Ukrainian Songs and Language on Radio. I understand that this law is too compromised to measure the quota per week and allow the media to ignore Ukrainian language in individual days. I understand that there will be a struggle in this room, that actually the pro-Russian lobby is extremely strong. But I'm asking you to support this amendment. Otherwise, this overly compromising law will fall into what it is. I don't really know if he's going to make any concrete changes to make the Ukrainian language actually sound on radio. Let us think about 26 years of independence of Ukraine, and we continue to debate how loyal we must be to the aggressor and his language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u74	Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u75	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 27th People's Deputies of Gopko. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:15:03]] For 193 The decision is not taken. 30th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 31st, Vineyard Andrew. Don't insist. 33rd, Sumar. Don't insist. 35th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 36th, Agafone. Don't insist. 37th, Sumar. Don't insist. 40th, Gopko. Don't insist. 42nd, Anointed. Don't insist. 44th, Captain. Don't insist. 46th, Vineyard. Don't insist. 48th, Sumar. Don't insist. 50th, Agafone. Don't insist. 52nd, Over. Don't insist. 55th, Lesjuk. Don't insist. 57th, Sevrukov, don't insist. 59th, Anointed. Don't insist. 60th, Gopko. Don't insist. 62nd, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Lukyanchuk, 62nd. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, I propose to support 61 amendments so that our citizens can not only hear the English language but also read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u77	And yet I propose to the honourable author the amendment to respect those people who are gathered on the balcony today, for whom you propose to make such a unique exception when you don't have to sound movies that are made in Ukraine, in Ukraine, in Ukrainian, you can sign Russian soap with Ukrainian text. So I'm going to say no to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u78	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 61. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:16:58]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 64th, come on. Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. He insists, yes. Please, 64th, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to confirm 64 amendments that violate all possible and impossible laws of formal logic and simply tell us that all films of the Soviet era, simply saying that they were made before 1991, will not duplicate or subtitle, there is no such thing as children's and animated films. In fact, Russian - speaking Soviet films will be regarded as quotaable, or Ukrainian - speaking. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u80	Mrs. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u81	The thing is, Mrs. Irina, is that this is about the "Brilliant's Hand" that everybody's used to, and it's exasperating people now, resounding Mironov, I don't know how appropriate that is. The only thing I want to point out is that the subtitles are supposed to be there, and this is provided for by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u82	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 64, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:18:34]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 65th. Mr. Yuri, I have a letter from you and I'll put all your amendments before the vote. They're all marked to me, and the camera prepared them for me, and we're all going to put them before the vote. 65th, Agafone. Don't insist. 68th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 70th, Badger. Don't insist. 71st, Sumar. Don't insist. 72nd, Gopko. Don't insist. 74th, Ease up. Don't insist. 64th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u83	64th, go ahead. Ah, 74th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the bill in the updated article 10 provides for actual inclusion in the Ukrainian content of films, hear, produced by August 1, 1991. I mean, Soviet films of Russian. Please tell your colleagues that it's no different than keeping a lowlife in the bargain with the pro-Russian channels. In fact, it's the preservation of a colonial Soviet environment. Look at the way the Poles and our other neighbors did, no liberality here is acceptable. So our amendment with Irina By way of removing from the bill those norms that allow for the inclusion of Soviet and Russian-speaking films into the Ukrainian-language quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u85	Will you comment, Mrs. Victoria? So I put to the vote 74 amendments to the National Deputies of Semimenah and To the Overlord, the Committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:20:42]] For-119 The decision is not taken. 82nd, Sevrukov. Don't insist. Eighty-five, over. Don't insist. 85th. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! The bill's policy of recognition of what it is to be understood as a translation done in the Ukrainian language is largely counterbalances the idea itself and the purpose of the quota given by the law, since this will not, in fact, increase the part of the Ukrainian language. What does this have to do with anything? The bill sets out a model that is sufficient to ensure that only during the counting program is done if the speaker makes a speech in the Ukrainian language. We suggest that we apply comments to all the air, namely, replicas, interviews, and comments should be exclusively in English, and only in this case will content be included in a portion of the Ukrainian - language content. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u87	Thank you. And I'm voting on Amendment 85. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. [[11:22:05]] For 104 The decision is not made. 92nd, Sverk. Don't insist. 94th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 98th, Sumar. Don't insist. 99th, Gopko. Don't insist. 103rd, Vineyard. Don't insist. 104th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 110th, Odarchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u88	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! In adopting this badly needed bill, we need not create obstacles to Ukraine's real-life transfers. For example, a language study program. According to the text of the bill, the English translation, in which the leading and actors speak English, needs to be duplicated in Ukrainian. But it doesn't make any sense, it essentially destroys the concept of educational language transmission. The bill now contains exceptions to channels devoted to learning a foreign language. But I'm asking you to make that exception for individual classes from foreign languages. I will point out that this exception does not extend to Russian. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria, put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u90	Put it to the vote, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u91	I'm voting on amendment 110 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote, the committee has rejected it, I remind you, please. [[11:23:49]] For-100 The decision is not made. My colleagues, there's not much change left. One minute after ten, we are likely to proceed to the vote so that everyone will be informed in advance and there is no explanation for why it was not in the hall. Naturally, in ten minutes, twelve of us will move on to making a decision, so please come into the hall. 116th, Princess. Don't insist. 119th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 120th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 125th, Sumar. Don't insist. Colleagues, it looks like it's going to be faster. Invite the deputies to the hall. 129th, Dove. Don't insist. 131st, Sumar. Don't insist. 132nd, Gopko. Don't insist. 133rd, Odarchenko. He insists. Please, 133rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u92	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, I propose to make an exception to this law for television channels that are generally dedicated to sports broadcasts. Many satellite channels retransmit sports, such as ski racing, hockey, baseball, motor racing, and often there are no translations on these channels. The viewer watches a broadcast with an original English - speaking comment. I suggest that the channels of exclusively sports can retransmit sports events in the original language. If a Ukrainian dictator sounds like a sports event, it sounds like a Ukrainian event. If there is no comment in Ukrainian, viewers can watch sports events in the original language. This exception does not extend to Russian channels. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u93	Put it to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u94	I'm voting on amendment 133 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies. Whoever supports it, please vote. I'll remind you the committee rejected her. Please vote. [[11:26:03]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 136th, Skork. Don't insist. 137th, Pawel. She insists, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u95	This right here, I suggest after the words "satellite," you add the word "except for foreign language." I think it's very important to protect the satellite.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u96	I'm voting on Amendment 137. He would like to comment, please comment on the committee’s head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u97	It is important that the first reading editorially approved the organizations that, according to the license, carry out air satellite and multichannel, including digital language, using a radio frequency resource. The word "satellite" was edited, although the committee rejected it. I'm asking the transcript now to confirm that in this case this is the exact formulation. Because what the author really insists on is that it output channels like "NewsOne" from under the law, we don't have the right to do it right now, the satellite should be in the body of the law. Please vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u98	Victoria, this editorial that you've been listening to, you're going to be sounding at the end of it under the stenogram. And now I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 137 people's deputies, Pauline. Whoever supports it, please vote, the committee has rejected it. Please. [[11:27:40]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 138th, Papiev, insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u99	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Many in this room are talking about the past, the communist regimes, the totalitarian regimes. But as this bill is being considered, and as it was introduced, it is an absolute path to totalitarianism. So this principle of democratic centralism, where a minority of the majority are subordinated, is implemented in this bill. I would like to ask all my colleagues to note that the rules have not been complied with, and I will be sure to make an objection and an appropriate decision to reverse the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, the chairman did not put the article in line to confirm, reading the Rules in his own way that he would then place all others for confirmation. The regulation states otherwise: It was necessary to put the amendments taken into account by the committee on schedule to confirm the amendment. I ask you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u100	Are you insisting on the vote? Yes. I'm voting on amendment 138 of the People's Deputy Papiev. The committee turned her down. Please vote. Who Supports? It's a committee against it. [[11:29:18]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 146th Chervakova doesn't insist. 147th, Pawel. [[B in m in s a l in]] 140th, right? I am. Mr. Yuri, I'm all yours, three adjustments left, I'll put them all in. 139th. Please, the 139th amendment, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u101	Regarding the 139-140 amendments, I would like to point out that the amendments are made to article 72 of the Television and Broadcasting Act and they impose appropriate fines. At the same time, the article in question did not change in any way in the first reading but, accordingly, in making changes to articles that were not voted on in the first reading, was expressly prohibited by the Rules. So I would suggest that they simply delete these amendments -- 139th and 140th, as well as those that were also supported by the Committee in violation of the Rules. This article was not included in the first reading to which the amendments were made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u102	Put it to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u103	What is your offer, Mr. Yuri? Can not get folder: %s: %s What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u104	They're now confirmed. But I am paying attention to the Hall, and Victoria Petrovni thank you for the kind words that these amendments appeared in a comparative table with violations of the Rules, as introduced to an article that was not voted on and was not in the first reading. It's a technical and maybe a lack of oversight of the committee, because once again, I'm going to point out that the table is only distributed yesterday to the National Deputies and the right of deputies is violated -- 10 days for a detailed overview of the table prepared for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u105	Colleagues, pay attention! The amendment will now be valid. What? It's now going to be 139th, 140th Amendment. I ask everyone to take their seats, prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u106	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u107	Please, Victoria Sumar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u108	The amendment provides for the sanction. You know very well that if you write down the norm and you don't have it. You don't have a fine of any kind, you don't have any sanctions for it to be executed, so unfortunately, in Ukrainian practice, it's not legal. So I'm very much asking you to put it on the stand and vote in favour of the fact that a very insignificant sanction is envisaged for violating this rule, which is 5 percent of the licensing community, but it will definitely be a warning that the law will be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u109	So, colleagues, I want everyone to hear me very carefully right now. Now we're voting yes, that's an overstatement. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues! Mr. Sergey! Mrs. Tetjano! A very important vote. Is there a scream where it's louder, or are you going to hear it? A very important vote. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. And I'm betting on confirmation of the 137th Amendment of Sumar. The committee asks everyone to support it and vote. It's an extremely important repair. Vika, short.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u110	Short. The point is, the committee has decided 5 percent. In fact, it's 140 amendments. I mean, it's both. It's about sanctions. It's just 139th to 10th, but the committee decided 5, so we're actually putting 140 amendments to confirm, and I'm asking you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u111	We'll put both the 139th and the 140th, as the National MP demanded. So please support the 139th Amendment of National Deputy Sumar. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please support everyone in position. Patriots, Ukrainians, vote! Please support 139 revisions. Please vote. [[11:34:03]] For 240 And so, colleagues, the 140 amendment has been agreed upon, please support. Please vote and please support. I'm betting on her confirmation. Vote, colleagues, please, every voice matters. Vote! Vote for it, the committee's asking for support. [[11:34:28]] For 260 [[B in m in s a l in]] Decision taken. We'll have the committee head in the end. Next of all those who insisted. It's 154th, she insisted. Yeah? 153rd, Over. And, colleagues, please. And 60th, right? Colleagues, please, now 154. 153rd Semenha, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! In the Final Positions of this bill is proposed during the first year since the validity of the law of the program, its transmission, its parts, which are wholly or partly created, funded by telephonies, are counted as part of the national language, regardless of which language they are executed, whether in Ukrainian or in Russian. In fact, this means that the first year after the adoption of this law quotas will not work. We strongly insist that in our direction we remove from the Transitional Regulations the rate of the transition period as unwarranted a year. And generally, colleagues, about this bill. With all due respect to the initiators and co-authors of this law, it is important to protect Ukrainian language in a comprehensive way, not in a sectoral way. Only a comprehensive law on Ukrainian national language that can be protected in the public and public sphere. [[Applause]] We really want these laws not to actually become a tax, because today it's a little less valuable. There must be a comprehensive Law on Ukrainian State Language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u113	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I put to the vote the amendment of 153 national deputies of Semimenah and Podowak. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u114	Please hold on. [[11:36:32]] For-142 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, the last amendment. I'll put them all up, Mr. Yuri, I'll put them all up. Gopko, 60th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the 60 amendments also apply to the daily, not weekly, measurement of part of the Ukrainian language. I understand that there is no political will in this room to adopt on television the same important law that we adopted on a radio where the quota is counted for the time being. There is no political will without playing games with Firthash and Ahmut, the Pinchucks, and other owners of television channels. I understand very well that voices will be counted depending on how compromising we adopt the law. And that's why I wanted us to try to support this amendment, so that we could count it this way, not the whole day. But in general, I would like to thank those singers, those of the Ukrainian Diaspora and all those who have joined in working on this law. And I'm supporting a self-help colleague who needs a quality law on state language to not just patch holes, but to adopt systemic steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u116	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 60 national MP Hopko. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:37:56]] For-188. The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, as promised from the beginning, all the amendments that were recommended for confirmation. I give the word now to Yuri Pavlenko, and he will speak again. He wrote an official letter asking us to confirm amendment 63th, 66th, 67th, 84th, 88th, 89th and 139th and 140th. Turn on Mr. Yuri's microphone. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u117	Andrey Volodymyrovich, there's another 154 amendments to mine. I'd like to vote on it. She's proposing a three-year deadline for the introduction of the law, because, in my opinion, apart from the policy of restrictions and prohibitions that are celebrated by the current authorities, it's a very important policy of support that we create a sufficiently quality, meaningful Ukrainian product that was interesting to our viewers. So I would ask 154 more amendments to my vote. And then go to confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u118	Okay. I would like to vote on the amendment of 154 of the Pavlovka People's Deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:39:29]] For-56 The decision is not made. Mr. Yuri, please. Now I'm putting your amendments to the vote, Mr. Yuri. Each one of them. So I'm betting on confirmation. Please, one minute, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, as we go to the amendments for confirmation, I would like once again to say that it is very sad to say that such an important, socially significant, socio-resonance law is about voting against the violation of the Ukrainian Rules Act. Because in my opinion, honoring Ukraine is not just words and beautiful declarations, but primarily the rule of law and respect for the law. We will only build a country successfully if we learn to respect and obey the law. Thank you and ask for confirmation of every amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u120	Mr. Jury, since I've had the appeal and the accusation, I want to tell you that I was in that room when the Koleschenka-Kivalova Party of Regions passed the law, and I'm going to tell you what a violation of the Rules is. When there were bandier guards standing around here, criminals who crippled MPs just because they wanted to get the right word, just because they wanted to express their position. That's what happened in that room. Now we're going through the whole procedure, it's seen by Ukraine, it's seen by all the national MPs, we're discussing every amendment. And before you accuse me of breaking the Rules as Head of the Supreme Council, I'm simply asking you to remember and understand that we accept laws in a very different way than what was done when the Party of Regions, the bandits, were sitting in this room, working for the Kremlin and conducting pro-Russian politics here. Today we are adopting European law and the European way and the European procedure. And that's how we're going to accept it today. So, colleagues, I'm stepping up to confirm all the proposals. I would like to point out that this is for confirmation and we have to support them, colleagues, we have to support them. And I put each one separately for confirmation. I ask you to concentrate, we will confirm them, and we will immediately vote on the law in full. So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. And I'm betting on confirmation of the first amendment of 63 people's deputies of Sumar. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, 63rd in favour. Please be supportive. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:42:17]] For 261 Decision taken. Amendment 66 of the People's Deputies of Gopko. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:42:39]] For 257 Decision taken. Supported. Amendment 67, Lesyuk, Jurinec, Kishkar, Bilozer. Please support her. This is for confirmation, please vote. Part of it is counted as suggested by the committee to be on the committee's agenda. Yes. [[11:43:03]] For 245 Decision taken. Next, 84th. Amendment of the Sumar. I'll do it. Okay. So 63 we've already confirmed. Okay, 73rd. 73 wants confirmation. Colleagues, 73rd. Victoria! Victoria, comment. Please, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u121	I'm going to comment on this story. So I want to emphasize to everyone who's just been talking to us about Soviet films. Colleagues, the exception to Soviet films does not apply to the quota of the Ukrainian language, they will not be counted as quotas. They apply to the standards that all films should be eloquent or duplicated in Ukrainian, except for these, they are not included in the quota. So I'm asking you here, in this case, this standard is going to be ensured. And this is about subtitles, it's about subtitles, it's about Soviet films being subtitled. It's a logical norm to be able to read in Ukrainian and there's no problem with that, it's an hour of work for the editor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u122	Support or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u123	Yes, of course, the committee counted 73 for the amendment, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u124	The committee is requesting support for 73 revisions. Please vote, please support. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote, please support 73 revisions. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u125	These are subtitles for the Soviets. [[11:44:44]] For 251
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u126	Decision taken. Amendment 84. So is Sumar. Pauline asks for confirmation. Please support her. Keep it in the committee's office. For the 84th amendment to be edited by the committee. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support. There are two adjustments left. [[11:45:17]] For 259. Decision taken. Amendment 88 of the People's Deputies of Gopko. The committee took her into account and asked her to support her, and Pauline asked her in part, in the committee's editorial, for her to be, this amendment, as the committee suggested. Please vote, please support 88 amendments to the committee's editorial approval. Please vote. [[11:45:50.]] For 265 Decision taken. And the last, 89th, Lesyuk, Jurinec, Kishkar, Bilozore amendment, is asked by the committee to support it in an editorial committee. Please vote, please support the 89 amendment. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:46:21]] For 257 And, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I invite the head of the committee to the final word before making a decision to tell us under the transcript what further amendments should be made. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u127	So, my dear colleagues, for the transcript, I'm talking about that we counted 140 amendments that involve fines of 5 percent. Then, for the transcript, I say that it is necessary to adopt a law in general, taking into account changes to part four of article 28 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, as drafted in Bill 5313, supported by the Supreme Council in its first reading. This is an editorial on satellite channels, which turned out to be completely editorial, because the committee has turned down and the hall has not now confirmed. To be completed. You know, there's been a lot of talk about totalitarianism here, that it's about imposing most of the minority's will, that it's not European standards. Absolutely European standards. Such laws exist in a number of European countries. Totalitarianism was when Ukrainian language was destroyed and it was forbidden to speak. [[Applause]] Enough with the subterfuge. And I am very grateful for the support of these amendments that we are today not balancing the law that will work for Ukraine, for Ukrainian culture, for Ukrainian performers, for actors, for directors, and for everyone who simply respects their country of birth, where they live and where they develop. [[Applause]] You know, we were all here in embroidery on Thursday, I think it's not on the body of the Ukrainian mother, it's in the heart. And this vote is when Ukraine is inside you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. It's really a phased law for us. We passed a similar law for radio stations, and we saw its effectiveness and effectiveness. And now the Supreme Council will once again demonstrate that this is the Ukrainian Supreme Council, which is taking down the remains of the Soviet imperialist past. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on language, audiovisual (electronic) media tools (number 5313), as amended by the transcript of the chairman of the committee, Sümar Victoria Petrovna, in the second reading and in general by technical law. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Let's make it 300 votes. [[11:49:18]] For 269 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you to our colleagues, the folk artists who came, were with us at this hour. Thank you and welcome you too. I wish you creative success, and we want to see more of you on TV. Good luck. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! No, it's not a break yet. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. It's also a question of the media block and freedom of speech -- 3454. We'll be able to look at it, I hope, for a break. I ask you to support the consideration of the next law by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:50:32]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report, National Deputy Chervakov Olga Valerievna. Mrs. Ola, Ukraine is waiting for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear fellows! About two weeks ago, on all the Ukrainian television channels, there was a story of a 14-year-old boy in Zitomir almost killing pieces of a trolleybus stand. Here's the footage from these stories. That was the situation. The child walked down the sidewalk, drove by the trolleybus, pulled the electric rod off it, and hit the commercial shield next door. A three - and - a - pound [two - and - a - half - pound [two - and - a - half - pound [two - and - a - half kg] - long [five - foot [5 m]] - long [two - and - a - half] - long [two - foot - high] - long [five - foot - high] [fell] on the child’s head. ” As a result, a child with cranial trauma was treated in a hospital, and a cranial trauma was discovered. What am I talking about? I'm saying this before a year ago we registered a bill that could address the safety of transportation advertising, the safety of advertising and these boards, which are located on media that they absolutely don't belong to. Draft Law 3454 does not apply to external advertising but refers to advertising in transport. It refers to restrictions on the support elements of the contact network, on wires, on wires, on wires, where they place these stretches absolutely, firstly, inappropriately, secondly, dangerously. I would also like to point out that this will not result in lower revenues to local budgets, as local budgets from these types of revenues also do not receive money. They get money from the owners of these companies that own these power grids and wires. We propose to limit the proper use of electricity, wires, and electricity for advertising purposes for human safety and purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u130	30 seconds, complete. Are you done? Thank you, Mrs. Olga, please go to your workplace. And the word for the report is given to the Secretary of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Ms. Oleni Contratyuk. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy, at its meeting on 3 February 2016, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising of Ukraine (for the use of individual elements in a well-being and a contact network in advertising activities), introduced by the people's deputies Abdulini, Chervaka and Tomenko. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Advertising Act to provide that advertising or advertising should be placed on supporting support networks and other elements of the contact network, on means and equipment, including the use of external lighting. According to the authors of the project, which has been agreed upon by all members of our committee, the bill is intended to limit total control in the city's advertising space, which has led to visual sweeping of our streets and is intended to improve the road safety situation. And the main thing is to secure it. to prohibit the criminalization of advertising media on electric power poles and the urban electricity network, which is extremely dangerous to people’s lives. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine commented on the bill, but the committee disagreed with them. Instead, I would like to point out that the committee is also developing a comprehensive bill that needs to spell out the outside advertising, to put the outside advertising system in order. I hope that by autumn we will have this bill brought to the Supreme Council. The Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, following the first reading, a bill (number 3454) as a basis. And I'm going to add that this is a little bill that we can absolutely vote on today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions to discuss this important bill. Please. Please, Mustafa Najem. Mustafa Najem passes the word to Olga Cervakovi. Please, Mrs. Olga. Olga Redwakovy, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill, both on the basis and in general. There's only one sentence, and that sentence will end this mess that's on the market. In fact, there are now completely uncompetitive conditions when some get permits, put their boards on official media, on those objects that are designed to do so, pay taxes, pay money, and others just on the basis that they own this equipment, self-proclaim them with advertising media, and place them there stretches, running boards, and so on and so forth. Which leads to both emergency situations, and to, as my colleague, Elena Condratuk said, visual contamination, and unequal market conditions, and that the owners of these motor vehicles that have these power plants and networks on their balance sheet, have simply created violent corruption. They put this money in their pocket, and cities get nothing from it, except the garbage that's on the streets of cities in the form of these advertising media. So I'm asking you very much to eliminate these uncompetitive market conditions and to make sure that people can breathe free and not look at this horrible garbage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Chizmar of the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u135	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the law is short, but it has some substance and content, because we see what our cities have become from advertising media -- they are very colorful. But this color does not reflect the identity of our cities, especially their central part. Very often these advertisers distract drivers from road signs, from road signs, from traffic lights, and thus threaten to increase roadside accidents. Very often these carriers are located in the central parts of our historic cities and cover up the historic buildings that Ukraine has always been proud of. So let's put this in order. We need it in this area. Of course, there is legislation in force today that seems to fully regulate this situation, giving local authorities the right to regulate the placement of external advertising media. But as experience and practice show, when a mayor or a bunch of deputies come to power on the spot, they first use their authority to allocate additional seats to companies that are owned and controlled by them. Thus, by creating a rather passive cheap business, broken down, our local self-governance today has shown its inability to give up such cheap but extremely inefficient types of business, and thus only stains our cities. In this case, therefore, the Supreme Council should assume responsibility and bring about this order if local self - rule is not possible. Look at the city of Kiev, look at the district centers: Uzhgrad, Ternopil, Frankivsk, Lviv, Western, Eastern Ukraine – you will see this problem everywhere. Advertisers are very often not aesthetic, they're just concrete or metal structures, they don't fit in the appearance of our historic cities. So it is clear that I personally support this bill and I propose to all my colleagues to support the bill in the same way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u136	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes, and we've got two more speeches. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. We'll have a decision in a few minutes. It's from Semenich's Self-Help. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u137	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Your Honor, Mr. Head! At the moment, the field of external advertising is the most commercialized, providing a wide range of opportunities to keep urban dwellers’ attention to advertised goods and services. As a result, the intense growth of the external advertising market today has caused us to observe a serious overcrowding of the streets of cities by advertising. And the problem is not only in the low aesthetic quality of a major advertisement for posted advertising, but in the placement of external advertising, the basic rules of safety are very often disregarded. Think about the numbers. According to experts, for example, Kiev has about 800 bases and contact networks that will allow for the safety of advertising. At the same time, in Kiev today, only 4,000 units of such advertising are officially located. Thus, the vast majority of advertisements today are located on pillars and pillars, where neither technically nor in terms of safety is acceptable. It is clear, therefore, that domestic legislation is too liberal in comparison with the analogies of Europe. So I think we need to support the bill's proposed standards for placing advertising on contact networks. The self-help faction is only ready to support the bill, only if the text of article 8 of paragraph 7 is deleted. It is a common practice in many cities in Europe to put image advertisements on lanterns, flags, even in the central or historical parts of the city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u138	And a closing statement from Fatherland Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, and in two minutes, we'll have a decision to make. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u139	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Abdulin Alexander, a national MP, passed a very good bill, which he longed for. Because now there's an absolute vachanal in the advertising system in the cities. We can see that it even now leads to accidents. I would like to draw attention to the reasons why we are considering this bill today. The point is that today’s legislation has put the issue of external advertising into the exclusive competence of local governments. The local councils are the ones that approve the rules, including the ones where advertising is allowed to be placed. In general, the placement of advertising media requires permission. In fact, we have some cities dominated by advertising that prevents movement or poses a threat to human security, primarily by those local self - government agencies that are thoughtlessly giving out advertising permits. In general, advertising permits have become an element of corruption, since the definition of advertising is now the absolute discretion of local authorities. Appropriately, local governments decide where and to whom advertising can be placed and their decisions can hardly be challenged. Regrettably, there was a need for State intervention in this area and for restrictions on the right of local councils to allow advertising on the elements of the contact network and the street lighting network. At the same time, this bill will be drafted. The bill will be difficult to implement, since the authorities of local self - government, which had previously allowed advertising to be placed on these sites, may not be able to allocate funds for its dismantling. But in general, this bill is very much needed. I offer to support him in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u140	Thank you. The committee's decision is just a basis. The authors are now holding the final consultations. Even the "will of the people" requires the Long One. Please, 30 seconds. Very short. Turn on the microphone for a long time. And I'd like to finish the consultation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u141	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Our faction will support the bill and urge others to support it. The need and urgency of putting the advertising market in order today are seen by everyone who goes out to the yard. That is why we will uphold this law. But we stress that this law is the solution to a complex advertising issue and only one precaution. Therefore, by upholding this law, we invite everyone else to join as quickly as possible in adopting a complex law that regulates external advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u142	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Fellows, I would like to emphasise, just on the basis of maybe all of these amendments that you have, we can do between the second reading. Have You Agreed on Your Position? All right. No, I've made it clear that the position of the committee is based. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (for the use of individual elements in the design and networking of advertising activities) (No. 3454) as a basis. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. Vote. [[12:05:37]] For 222 I'll be right back. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, take up jobs. And I'm proposing to go back to voting. So please prepare. Deputies enter the hall by means of convoys. I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 3454. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:06:37]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm putting Law 3454 back on the ground, colleagues, just as a foundation. All amendments can be made to the second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote on the basis. [[12:07:04]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, now. Now there's the announcement. Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, as you know, the International Day for the Protection of Children is celebrated annually on June 1. And on the occasion of this day, in the third floor of the administrative center of Gruszewski, 5 on the initiative of the profile committee, the All-Ukrainian Exhibition of Art and Decorative Products is being held by young people with special needs. The exhibition is organized by the All-Ukrainian Disability Society of the Union of Disabled People of Ukraine for the promotion of the Committee on Veterans, Actors, ATOs and Persons with Disabilities. We invite all the deputies to attend the exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u144	Thank you. Also, colleagues, I want to report that recently, the Lviv National Academy of Arts has celebrated 70 years since its founding. Parliament has adopted an appropriate decision to mark this date. And today, there's an exhibition on the third floor in the towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for graduates and students of the Academy. I invite you to visit and support Ukrainian art. And the final announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of an interfractional parliamentary association for the development of concessional construction of roads, bridges and tunnels. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, was elected head of this association. So, honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, I now announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:40, I ask everyone to return to the hall, and we will continue to consider the issue of media and advertising. At 12:40 a.m., everyone is instructed to arrive in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u145	Colleagues, time taken for recess, are over. He'll be finished in a minute. And so I strongly invite the deputies to the conference room to continue our work, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Chamber. My colleagues, please, I want to inform you that the following questions are also about the thematic cluster of media and advertising. And the next is a bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. It's essentially just a minimum, there's a change in one sentence, and so it's only natural that the author and the committee are asking us to look at it in a simplified way. But to do that, we need to maximize our vote. Are you ready to maintain a reduced procedure? Colleagues, please, I will now put to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure. I very much ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. So I'm going to put a motion to a vote, look at the draft bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (4924) under a reduced procedure. There is only one sentence that changes, please vote. Please support the summary procedure 4924, please vote. [[12:43:23]] Z-77 Colleagues, I'll put it back up again, if there are no votes, we're going to go through with it. I just want to let you know and you see it in a day-to-day way, and then we have a block of environmental issues, and 2897, the committee head of the Conciliation Council. And that depends on how effectively we can work, how effectively we can work, how far we can go through the order of the day. That's one sentence, and there's obviously nothing to talk about during the speeches and the heads of factions and the deputies. Let me put it again, if the situation is as sad as it is, we'll look at it in full. Please prepare to make a decision, please come into the hall. This, by the way, is also about a break, a half-hour, which then lasts for an hour, you have to cancel it, colleagues. Let's do it in the morning and put it back in order to cancel and put this bill into the agenda, at least on Thursday. Colleagues, we vote, I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Law (4924) amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act should be considered on a reduced basis. Please vote, please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[12:45:27]] For 111 By factions, please show me. I don't even want to read the results of the vote, frankly. Let's go all the way, shall we? Let's do it again, three times? So I'll put it again, please come into the hall. If we don't, we're going in full procedure. Please, we're taking up jobs, we're going into the hall. It's going to be an hour's review, which means we're not going to go to the next bill before lunch, and that means that they're going to have a very low chance of adopting them. And this is a very funny situation where I have to beg MPs to come to work. You have to come to the workplace as a teacher comes to teach you how a worker comes to the factory, how a soldier comes into the army for rotation. Colleagues, please take your seats, please come into the hall. I would like to reiterate my last proposal to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act (4924) under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please support everyone, colleagues! Colleagues! Rybczynski! Well, colleagues, I'm asking you to back me up, and you're standing there talking! Let's do it! Let's do it! Let's do it! Let's do it! Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[12:47:22]] For 135 The decision is not taken. And we're going to be looking at 4,924 in full procedure. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Sevrukov Vladislav Volodimirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u146	Dear national deputies, Mr. Head! Thank you for being able to present Bill 4924 on changes to the Advertising Act. The need for adoption of this bill was long ago when, back in 2008, the 8th article of the Advertising Act had been amended to remove advertising requirements for information about certificates, permits, licenses, and various licenses. But there have been no changes to the special articles in the Law -- 21, 24 and 25 on the promotion of individual activities and services, and so we have been forced with you for the past nine years on the radio commercials after some commercials to listen to such shorts, which have coded certain numbers, symbols, dates that no one can really figure out, and even more, to remember. And so my proposal is to rule out the need for advertising exclusively on the radio of these licenses, licenses, certificates, stress that they will remain in the printed product, in the television commercial, where their placement is logical and normal, and on the radio I propose to exclude. Of course, I would like to support this bill, hopefully there are many and radio listeners among your constituents. This bill should reduce the irritability of listeners, increase the audience of Ukrainian radio stations, and hopefully your voters will be grateful for the support of this bill. And I also see that you've taken it seriously and we're considering this bill in full procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u147	This is a responsible consideration. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter, please, three minutes. Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u148	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, actually, it's kind of a technical question, but, well, there's an objective problem right now -- a huge number of different charlatans are blowing people's last money away, covering up all sorts of things. And maybe this moment, maybe it's a little bit really alogic in terms of sounding there on the radio in advertising, but maybe it'll be some kind of warning or some extra attention around it. Because, well, really right now, unfortunately, there's a huge problem with both pseudo-methods and zs. Here's what it says: about the cost of the population, the building, the securities, the stock market, well, it's also very often a different lochtron, and maybe there'll be no extra control to, well, over-the-counter alert our citizens from all kinds of reckless steps.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u149	Please, Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u150	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. I fully support your view that there is a great deal of cheating advertising today and that it needs to be fought. But my bill doesn't change anything right now. And I'm saying that we don't need this information on the radio, but it has to stay, of course, in printed products, in television. This was discussed on the committee, by the way. And now there are projects that, by the way, are being considered in the committee about exactly banning the advertising of healing, banning certain incomprehensible medical devices, but this bill, as far as I'm concerned, is logically still on the radio, because nine years of experience have shown. Nine years of experience have shown that no person on the radio has ever understood or memorized this advertisement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u151	Please, Igor Popov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u152	Dear Vladislav Volodymyrovich, we have recently voted in favour of more than a billion dollars for the affected investors of Mikhailski Bank, who have generally contributed not to Mikhailivski Bank, but to the financial pyramid. Sadly, this problem remains, and colleague Illenko also mentioned it in his previous speech. Don't you think we should do the same hard-core responsibility as the media that spreads this kind of publicity, because I'm sure every financial pyramid will have all the necessary licenses. And really, there's no point in reading the license numbers, much less the short-circuit that no one can hear. But is it not necessary to make more stringent methods of checking what services are provided and, more so, when this pyramid is gone, and when taxpayers are forced to pay for this pyramid, why not take some responsibility and someone who has involved people in this pyramid?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. I fully support the idea that the state has, that we have to put down some bans and make it impossible for situations that arise from the construction of the financial pyramids, the situation with the Mikhailinski Bank. I would like to point out that it was the Mikhailovsky Bank that gave these shorthands in their commercials because they had some documents there, they read them. I mean, they could still be misleading, and once again, this bill doesn't have any effect. And as for the general approach to protecting us from bad advertising, I completely share your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u154	Thank you. The time for questions has been completed, and I invite you to the co-report of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna. Vladislav Volodymyrovich, thank you for your report. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u155	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy, at its meeting on October 19, 2016, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising Ukraine on Improving the Regulation of Advertising of National Medicine Services, i.e. Purpose, Services for the Inclusion of Population Funds, Construction Objects, Securities and Stock Markets, on Radio (Registration No. 4924, dated September 15, 2016), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Sevrukov. According to the author, the bill has been called off by canceling requirements for the identification of appropriate props for certificates, permits and licenses in radio advertising to make it less annoying for consumers, that is, radio listeners. In fact, remove the short-circuit that's currently on the radio. The bill proposes to remove from articles 21, 24, 25 and 25-1 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act the requirements for listing props for permits in radio advertising. The appropriate approach was endorsed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee has failed to identify corruption in the bill and considers it compatible with anti-corruption legislation. Our committee supports the idea of the author of the legislative proposal because, to convince the members of the committee, the existing legislative requirement to require the issuance of certificates, permits, licenses in the advertising of appropriate services on the radio does not have any useful effect, but leads to a lack of acceptance and an increase in the level of irritability of consumers themselves, including distrust of advertising as such. At the same time, members of the committee drew attention to the need for technical and legal editing. Under the transcript, I would like to point out that, in particular, these observations relate to paragraphs one, paragraphs one, four, and chapter one, of the bill, which require the deletion of the words "The Advertising Act of Ukraine." The provisions of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law, which states that advertisers cannot promote advertising if, according to legislation, the activities or goods advertised are subject to mandatory certification, or the production or implementation of such products requires the availability of an appropriate permit, licenses, and the advertiser does not supply a copy of such certificates, permits, licences, certificates certified in the established order. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the adoption of Bill 4924 on the basis and in general, taking into account the editorial comments made. Please be supportive. I think we shouldn't be wasting too much time on this discussion and the question to me right now, because the law is actually very technical and everyone understands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u156	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to a coconspirator. Colleagues follow the full procedure by asking the reporter and the coconspirator for three minutes. Please, Lensky. It's transmitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u157	Monsieur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u158	Monsieur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u159	I have such a question, my dear colleague. Please tell me if this law that we're currently considering, in the event of its adoption, is going to have to remove, in fact, from the radio broadcaster, all the commercials that basically set up the lochtron for the Ukrainians, they're going to be costing, they're building pyramids. Well, there's no secret to anyone. Is this where this bill will work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u160	Well, unfortunately, this bill is only called upon to regulate the technical part, which is that the content of the advertisement is not affected by the bill. But nevertheless, I think this bill is needed because, well, actually, confidence in advertising should be in the radio audience. And there can be no irritable way of teaching it on the radio. So from a technical point of view, it had to be done a long time ago. Because these are changes to the Advertising Act, they just have to be voted on. In fact, the content of advertising should be truly responsible if it is false or deceptive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u161	Please ask the following question from the national deputy Sverka. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already announced Sverk. Then there will be your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I would rather not ask a question but respond to the comments of colleagues who I find very appropriate. But it has to be understood that any media agency has neither the qualifications nor the ability to verify these licenses that advertisers have given us. So if we want to increase the requirements for these licenses and the quality of these services that people get, we need to gather, we need to contact those authorities that have the responsibility and the right to issue these licenses, so that they can get better access to any applicants for licenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u163	Thank you. Will you respond, Mrs. Helena?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u164	I think I can only support my colleague and, really, the regulator has to be responsible for these licenses that he gives. I totally agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u165	Please ask Mr. Lozov, to whom the word is given by Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u166	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. "In his house is his truth and his power and his will," wrote Taras Grigorovich. And we all know that it's clean and comfortable in the house where they clean up. The reporter is absolutely right, this bill is technical, we're just going to clean up the air from completely unnecessary, sorry, information trash there and give a little bit more time that God will give to Ukrainian music, Ukrainian culture and what Ukrainians need. But we need to clean up, I'd like to call on colleagues who consider themselves Ukrainian patriots, to mobilize and clean up the Ukrainian information environment during the war, for the fourth year of Moscow aggression here, to clear the Ukrainian information environment from the hostile propaganda here, which is primarily channel Inter. We all see targeted daily in so-called newscasts on the "Inter" channel of anti-Ukraine provocations. Without the President's political policy, this could not have happened. So President Prašenko is personally responsible for what he is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u167	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u168	It is hard not to agree with Mr. Andrew. I think it's just the first law we passed today after 5313 that makes it very clear that there's some sort of system in the information space of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Oleno. You can sit in your workplace. Colleagues, now according to the Rules we have zero, there were three questions, I'm sorry. We've got the factions now, then the MPs' speeches, you'll be able to join us during the speeches by the deputies. Please sign up for discussions by factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u170	Colleagues, I'll give you my word, I have a request. Is there any objection if we move from factions to voting immediately? There's no denying it, is there? So so that the national MPs don't get offended, the positions of all factions will now be marked, and then we'll immediately vote. And I invite you to the word from. Yeah, and I'll give it to the non-fractionals who want it. Welcome to Odarchenka's word from the Fatherland faction. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u171	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, the author of the bill has raised a very interesting question, he rightly believes that the amount of advertising involved in some witch doctors, pawnbrokers, trusted societies, and other organizations that deceive people should be limited. And that's right, because the advertising sector has become very large. And for me, this is a serious, serious sign of the degradation of the Ukrainian economy, because today we see that almost half of the advertising sector is not about advertising some kind of production capacity or interesting product that is produced in Ukraine, that is, services like this. This is a testimony that the economy of Ukraine, it's going down, it's going down. On Friday, we heard a very nice speech by Prime Minister Groysman, who told us that he would raise his pension. Dear friends, at the expense of which we can increase pensions if we don't see economic growth even on this indicator as advertising. Retirement can only increase when the economy grows, when there is a source for it, and the productivity of the work increases. Now all we've heard is some juggling in terms, and we clearly understand that pensioners won't get any promotion. Because there was no question of de-tining the economy, of de-outshoring the economy, which would bring tens of billions of dollars into the Ukrainian economy, and would make it possible to minimize the deficit of the Pension Fund. There was no question that the tax should be taxed on dividends. Now it's a shame for Ukraine that 5 percent of the pay is paid by oligarchs, not 17 percent, as everyone pays, by Ukrainian citizens. So, you know, this bill is relevant to me, but it shows that the question of improving people's lives remains in the long run, because the government today shows no source for the economy to grow, productivity to increase, people had, in fact, a clear perspective for improving their lives. This law is very relevant, but it would be more appropriate for me, the honourable chairman, to consider issues related to the desire of the vast majority to open up the market for the sale of land. This is a question that will strike all Ukrainians, especially those living in the countryside. Fatherland initiated a nationwide referendum. It would be logical to ask people whether they wanted to sell the land of agriculture or not, but the courts that we believe have acted under pressure have blocked the referendum at the national initiative. So we will insist that these questions be considered first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I have great respect for the speaker, one of the best experts in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I do not rule out the microphone, even though the chairman had the full right to do so, because we are now discussing the bill on advertising. It's not about retirement, it's not about the market, it's about the referendum, it's about advertising. I very much ask that all speakers honor their colleagues, honor our viewers of the "Council" channel and respect the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and speak, as required by the Rules, solely on the subject, and it speaks of advertising. And unfortunately, we didn't hear the position of the Fatherland faction about the law, about everything in the world, but not about the law. They say yes, thank God. Please, National Deputy Melniczuk gives the floor to a colleague of Ribczynski. I'm sure you'll talk about the law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u173	Thank you for your word. As a radio expert, I would like to say the following: Of course, the speakers were annoyed not only by the speakers but also by the radio owners themselves. Because, first of all, it's impossible to understand what's going on, once. Second, it's not possible to check the numbers that are given to the register, so it's ridiculous in principle. But this takes up advertising time. So the advertiser doesn't pay for the commercial, and he pays for the unknown. Only because those who came up with the previous Advertising Law were publishers, for whom it was perfectly clear if there was a registration number on paper or on a television screen that could simply be recorded. On the radio, unfortunately, nothing is fixed. But I do have an offer for the authors of the law. First of all, I'd like to say that I totally support him. Second, there's an offer, and I would say that the second suggestion is that you have to create some kind of monitoring service that checks not only what's going on in these register props, but also the amount of the same Ukrainian-speaking music on the air, everything that's about the standards that we're adopting here in the form of laws. Unfortunately, we've got laws that we're adopting, they're doing this kind of thing because there's no service that's responsible for this, which would monitor, expose and allow law enforcement authorities to continue to arouse, maybe do business or bring to the Front about the issue of disqualification of licenses for the fact that people, radio stations don't comply with Ukraine's laws. In this case, I think we're going to vote in favour of this law, we're going to take out these listed props, which are in the short term, once. The other one. Lombards, again, markets, chiromantics, astrologers and so on, so on, we understand that this is a pure brand of apherism. And if we don't adopt this law now, this law will only increase, because the population is poorer, and someone wants to take advantage of it, because people are looking for happiness in astrologers. Thank you so much for being able to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko, he's going to the rostrum. I remind my colleagues that only on the first reading today are we voting on the bill, and all the amendments can be made to the second. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, at last the Supreme Council has begun to consider draft laws that relate to the information policy and information security of the state. At the same time, it is surprising that in the daytime order there are little significant, secondary, just technical laws, while today there is real information aggression against our state. I am convinced that today there are enough registered laws that could strengthen the Ukrainian state in the information space both inside and outside. There are bills that are prepared even by the government, but that still do not reach the Supreme Council Hall. I'm sure we should focus primarily on the state of the information presence of the Ukrainian State on the liberated, occupied and uncontrollable areas of the Lugansk and Donetsk region today. It's also a state of readiness for appropriate television broadcasts, and installation, and introduction into operation of transmission stations, the issue of the deployment of a boost signal for Ukrainian news broadcasters, the installation of additional transmitters along the line of disconnection. This is a sufficient representation of Ukrainian language on cable networks. There is a Ukrainian signal, for example, in cities such as Audia, where there is virtually no Ukrainian language. The availability and security of domestic printed products in the heavily controlled territories of Ukraine today. There is no doubt that bills should be put in place to strengthen the information reintegration of Ukrainian citizens in the freed territories, this is the support of the relevant radio organizations working in the Donetsk region, Lugansk region, in the south of Ukraine, which can send their message to Crimea. It's a matter of content and support for Ukrainian languages, making the necessary Ukrainian products. We were obviously happy about the introduction of Ukrainian language quotas in radio organizations, but in fact we have weakened our influence and the ability to fight for the hearts and souls of Ukrainian citizens living today in the Donetsk region, in the Lugansk region, in the Crimea. And it's obviously the neutralization of the propaganda channel signal. All of this should be primarily in the agenda of the Supreme Council. That's why the Opposition Block abstains from voting for this bill, because it thinks it's an ineffective use of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u176	Thank you. Please, Romanowski of the People's Front gives the word to his colleague Ungurian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u177	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, I would like to remind those of us who worked in the sixth vocation that, at the time, extremely relevant to the information content of the Ukrainian television channels, the newspaper has become a problem, practically, uncontrollable, completely illegal advertising, and very often in the direct pursuit of any charlatan action. We even remember how on air even national channels some kind of fortune teller, some sort of healer, some kind of bio-energy, and they only asked for one: call the number, and you'll feel better. And so it included just a banal, sorry in the word "lochotron," and then we, along with our colleagues of informers, adopted a sufficiently balanced package of bills that made it impossible: first, to advertise the services of misunderstood actors and, secondly, to perform these services on direct television or radio broadcast. So far, the idea presented by our colleague has come to realize that it only refers to these shorts, the shorts that sound at the end of the commercial, either on television or on radio. But unfortunately, too many spheres. The areas in which this bill applies are just painful spheres, it's construction, and we see how many fraud schemes in construction, and it's national healing, and we see how many charlatanisms and just the deception of people are happening through these kind of services. And it turns out that by making life easier for the listener, we make life easier for these very often unscrupulous individuals or legal persons. So I agree with my colleagues in the Radical Faction, with my colleagues in the Freedom Group, with other colleagues who are right in that we need to approach these issues in a comprehensive manner so that we not only eliminate the short-circuits, but we have protected the information space from these not-righteous people or legal persons who sell non-existent apartments or offer fraudulent medical healing services, it's wrong. So I think today we don't have to do this selectively, but we have to do it comprehensively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u178	Please, Mrs. Yuzkova gives the floor to her fellow national MP, Moseschuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u179	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! Igor Mosiyczuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Our faction will support this bill in the first reading, but let's really approach it in a complex way. Let's clean up radios and television frauds from the air, let's clean up the air for those who spend money on Ukrainians. At the same time, by taking advantage of the opportunity and the fact that it is a cluster of information issues, I would like to appeal to my colleagues to support the initiative of the faction of our Radical Party to create a Temporary Investigation Commission for the Financing and Activities of the Ruger of the Kremlin in Ukraine, the Inter Channel. [[Applause]] Because there's no secret that, apart from the oligarchus of Firthash and Ljovckin, the financing of the Intera is being carried out by the Russian ORT channel. In addition, I would like to thank the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Alexander Turkinov, Minister of Interior Arsen Avakov, for the fact that yesterday it was forbidden to enter Ukraine by the author of the division of Ukrainians and Ukraine into three varieties of Mr. Shuvalov. And at the same time, I'm asking the Ukrainian Security Service to file a criminal case against the Inter Channel producer, Mrs. Freeman, who is the author of the "immortal regiments" and the opposition in Kiev. Dear colleagues, let's be honest, let's say that during the third year of the war, the Kremlin's Inter couldn't have worked if there was no conspiracy with the government, if our politicians hadn't gone to the TV station on this one, had no faces, had no cry for their patriotism. I hear here the second day, including in this room, that faction leaders are not allowed to air. Dear Ukrainians, turn on "Inter" and see, every day, the representatives of this faction on the Kremlin's wall. And finally, it was fashionable to talk about illegal wealth, filing for deputies, investigating and so forth. And let's ask, official Sergey Lewochkin is twenty years in power, twenty years old, and he owns Interu shares, palaces under Paris, the island of Dniper. Yesterday, I applied to the NAB, the SAP, and the Henprocuratorium for criminal offences on the part of Lvocken regarding tax evasion and illegal enrichment. We'll see how they're investigating. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u180	Thank you. My colleagues, I have to point out that let's talk about specific bills. Now, the word to a colleague from the Peter Dusty Block who represents the faction's position, Mr. Sverke. Please, Mr. Sverke. And I'm asking you to go back to the session room, because there's going to be a vote. The MPs agreed that we would not register to speak with the MPs in order to speed it up. Please, Mr. Sverk, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, it is very encouraging that the bill of colleague Sevrukov has become a reason to discuss a large number of problems that are still in Ukrainian television and media space. But I propose to go back to the bill, and the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block will support this bill and ask all the other colleagues to support this bill, because it removes this nonsense from our radio broadcaster, which is called "rapid language," which doesn't solve any of the questions that we've been discussing so far, which only stains our radio space. And from my point of view, we have to make this technical and very simple decision. When it comes to considering the issues raised by other colleagues in their presentations, please contact the committee with your initiatives and prepare drafts. The Freedom of Speech Committee has great respect for all colleagues working in the zone of bringing our television and information space into order. So I urge all my colleagues to support Bill 4924 and to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u182	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion over. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to you in closing. Of course I will. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. And I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall to prepare for the decision. Now the final word, the reporter is Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Please. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Please, Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u183	Thank you. It's literally a minute of your time. I'm glad that such a simple bill, for such a small purpose, caused such a lively discussion, and we've raised those problems that actually exist, which unfortunately this bill doesn't solve. But I hope, as my colleague has said, that after this discussion, after today, we will see new bills that will allow us to solve exactly the issues that have been raised: unscrupulous builders, unscrupulous healing services, and advertising medical supplies. But now we're talking about something completely different. I hope that we can separate the cauldron separately, as they say, and vote. And I ask, as this is literally one sentence in the bill, to support this bill as a whole. I would be very grateful. And hopefully this is just the beginning of a big job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u184	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Vote! So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (to improve the regulation of advertising for public health services, services related to the inclusion of population costs, construction facilities, securities and the stock market on the radio) (No. 4924) on the basis and overall of the committee's proposal. Please vote. Please be supportive. Oleg! Oleg, here comes the vote. Please. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! [[13:23:31]] For 215 I'll be back. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please, colleagues, you see, 11 votes is not enough, please invite the deputies to the hall. Anyone in the towers, please come to the workplace. Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, you see, every voice matters. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the vote. I'll wait, I'll wait until Olya gets back. Ola, run. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 4924. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[13:25:08]] For the 220. 220, there's potential. Guys, it's gonna be a third time. This is going to be the third vote. And I forcefully ask the factions to mobilize their factions. Please show the voting factions. "Block of Peter Prashenko" – 93, "National Front" – 52, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 20, Oleg Ljashka Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 13, "will of the people" – 3, "Party of Renaissance"– 2. So, colleagues, please prepare, please take your jobs. You can see that every vote is about voting. And I'll put it to a vote. Minister! Mr. Secretary, there's a vote coming, don't distract the deputies, please. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law (4924). Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. Please be supportive. [[13:26:52]] For the 220. Colleagues, we have a choice either for the first time again, or for the subject. Basically, well, I'll lay the groundwork, colleagues. Next, I'll put a motion on the basis of the vote. And I'm voting on the draft bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (No 4924), the next proposal on the basis. Please vote, please support me as a base. Vote, please support. We can make all the adjustments between the first and the second readings. [[13:27:42]] For 223 I've already put it in. Colleagues, next offer. Okay, one more time. Colleagues! Colleagues, our next proposal on the ground, I'm going to put the return on the ground now, and if the will of the Hall comes back, we're going to vote on the basis. Please take your place. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting on the basis of draft Law 4924. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote back to voting on the basis, please support, return to 4924, please vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:28:45]] For 223 Now, colleagues, to the committee for further work. Let's go to the pre-work committee. The next proposal is to return the draft Law 4924 to the committee for further work. Let's focus on that. Colleagues, please, every voice matters. I'm proposing that the bill of the Advertising Act 4924 be returned to the committee for further work. Let's unite around this proposal, let's vote, let's vote, let's vote, let's support 4924 on the committee for further work. [[13:29:32]] For 240 Decision taken. We go to the final draft of the block's thematic day on media issues, this is the draft of the Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act on the time frame for storing broadcasts (number 5607). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[13:30:15.]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Rizanek Pavel Alexandrovich. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u185	Good afternoon, dear fellows! National Deputy Rizanenko, 97th constituency, Kyiv district. Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (for the duration of the broadcast). For the sake of understanding, the law is very simple, but it only changes one number 14 days a year. But what exactly does this law apply? This law applies to the storage of audio broadcasts, radio and television broadcasts. Current legislation, article 48 of the Television and Radio Act, provides that such audio recordings are stored and only two weeks ’ worth of video recordings are kept. But I would like to remind you that the Constitution of Ukraine, article 32, guarantees citizens the right to right to wrong wrong information about themselves and their family members and the right to demand the removal of any information and other rights. At the same time, article 258 of the Civil Code establishes terms of limitations within which a person may appeal to a court for protection of his or her civil rights or interests. And it is in the matter of correcting misrepresentative information contained in the media that such a term of limitation is one year. What does such a situation lead to in practice? This bill has been initiated with practical experience, and it applies to any citizen, and here most people are public individuals, and they have repeatedly dealt with the dissemination of some unreliable or inaccurate information in the media. So if you're going to or any average citizen wants to file a defense suit. about correcting information, he has to do it not in a two-week term, but the court has to issue an order to delete the record, and he's been added as proof of the case. If that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u186	How much? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u187	If this is not the case, in practice this often, a person loses his right to defend himself. The question was raised that it might need some additional expenses. In fact, technology today allows digital, much larger records to be stored, and this is not a problem. The committee supported the bill in the first reading, the committee will make a statement. The main scientific and scientific management also supported it in the first reading. Colleagues, please support this bill. I don't think he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u188	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the bill is very simple, it literally consists of one amendment: as the author of the bill said, instead of 14 days of storage of information by television channels, it is proposed for one year. That's the thing. That, in fact, for 14 days, not everyone has the opportunity to react quickly and correct certain information. Without this official information, in fact, the denial will not work if you want to accuse the things you said about you on the TV channels. One year may be too long, but let's think about it as amendments to the second reading: 14 days, as the drafter rightly says, is a very short term for responding to violations, such as honour and dignity and other things. So the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council is to approve the bill in the first reading, I stress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u190	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please, Shinkovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u191	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the Peter Prashenko faction has instructed me to report support for the bill. Indeed, it is aimed at strengthening the protection of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens, because the term of 14 days, the term of keeping records of public media reports, is certainly insufficient when it comes to defending their rights, when appropriate procedures are needed, and when a person seeking to protect his rights does not have confirmation, and the media may refuse because, in fact, today, the law obliges them to keep only 14 days. So we call on all of our colleagues, regardless of the fact that we're not enough in this room, but 5607 to take it as a basis. And we can, if we need to, process it in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u192	Thank you. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich of the Radical. Oh, he's giving Andrew Loz a word for the speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u193	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. Simple. I think most of our audiences, in principle, are interested in this law, but I'll give you a simple example. Every day, millions of Ukrainians lie to the Kremlin’s Rupore, the Inter Channel, which is owned by the Januković regime, Sergey Ljovczyn and Dmitri Firtash, and a large shareholding of the first channel of Russian television, belong directly to the Kremlin. Every day of God's "Inter" is a lie. They don't show. Every day, every night in the news, there's no infusion that looks like Charlie Chaplin telling a stupid story about the Radical Party. They're killing the Ukrainians among themselves. Mrs. Freeman's general channel producer is the main performer of one of the largest pro-Creme provocations of the last time -- the so-called "Deathless Regiment" action, actually, mortal. When parasitic people in the elderly try to distort events, eat Ukrainians. We see that on the Inter Channel we see movies showing clear Russian propaganda showing concerts of Russian stars performing in the occupied Crimea and so-called "DNR", "LNR", they systematically show Ani Lorak and Tyu Povaly, and other traitors who have betrayed Ukraine without a tribe and comfort the invaders instead of going like Zlata Firewich, like Nastya Adjective, to go to our soldiers for the next and thank them for their feat for Ukraine's song. The Inter Tele channel is an example of information terrorism against Ukrainians during the war. Inter has to be closed. The general producer, the Moscow provoker, Mrs. Freeman must immediately be arrested by the BSS for terrorism. The owners of the canal should likewise be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u194	Please, National Deputy Ivchenko of Fatherland. Please state the position of your faction. Krulke's word. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u195	Cool, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u196	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an entirely technical bill, which is related to the fact that, under the requirements of article 258 of the Civil Code, the statute of limitations on matters relating to the protection of honour and dignity and in relation to the rebuttal of indiscriminate information is set at 1 year. That is why this proposal to make changes to article 48 so that appropriate television channels can be kept for one year, not for 14 days, of all records, is perfectly logical and will allow a person to protect his or her right to dignity in appropriate trials. I don't see any problems here for this bill to be voted on as a whole, because in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, if the bill relates to one article, it can be voted on as a basis and, in general, there is nothing to put it back on the committee. The "Fatherland" faction at its meeting has considered this bill and will vote unanimously for it. But in addition, I propose that we really impose sanctions, personal sanctions on all those who are destroying Ukraine today who have worked for the Yanukovic regime. And let's be statesmen and the first one to do that, Mr. Ahmedov, let's put it on this list. We do not need to hide and reward our grantors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u197	Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich. And I'm asking you in a concise manner, if I may, as much as possible. Anointing. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u198	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I'll try without slogans, in a concise, legal way. This bill really raises a big problem, a legal problem. And those who have faced court motions to protect honor and dignity realize that the only thing to be done in these trials is really to prove that the information has been distributed and that such information is negative, unreliable. In fact, sometimes at the time of storage in 14 days, there's a problem with proving de jure that such information has been distributed, even if we see individuals on video, and even if we see, who said, de jure this document, this evidence is lost in 14 days, and legal proof becomes virtually impossible. So, honourable colleagues, in principle, this bill deserves attention in order to be approved in the first reading. However, as far as one year of storage is concerned, I think there should be further discussions and consultations, since perhaps this vast amount of information, the video material produced every day by television organizations, will be too much volume. Thus, we may be able to arrange this period for the second reading. And I think what's more, those people who think that information is distributed by television broadcasters, on the radio about them is unreliable, negative, they're, in principle, about a month to six months, they're going to be able to actually go to court and use this document as an original to prove that such information is damaging their business reputation and actually to protect their honour and dignity. I therefore propose to vote only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u199	Thank you. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. From the will of the people, one minute, Sergey Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Indeed, the protection of personal rights and dignity is a major problem. And I've had this information myself on many occasions. And I got information about one of our colleagues, that our colleague has German citizenship. And this information is already being distributed to journalists, and the information noise will continue to rise. So I would like this MP who is present in this room to challenge or confirm his citizenship of Ukraine, oh, Ukraine and German citizenship. This is Mr. Rosenblatt. Mr. Rosenblatt, if you have any proof that you don't have German citizenship, please tell me. If so, confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u201	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm going to put it like the committee gave me, just as a basis, I'm going to put it to the vote. Can I get you a line now? Colleagues, we're taking up jobs. There was no subject, but the name Rosenblatt was mentioned. Please, Rosenblatt, on the line. And I'd like you to take your jobs while there's a line. Please, Mr. Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u202	Thank you. Well, this isn't the first time I've had this provocation about having foreign citizenship. Here, too, a deputy recently said that I would have to pass an Israeli passport when crossing the border. But I just want to assure you. All my life, I've been a citizen of one country, Ukraine. I've never had another passport in my life. I've never had one in my life. I'm sorry. I have been and will remain a citizen of one country, Ukraine! And he never got a passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u203	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act on the time frame for storing broadcasts (No. 5607) as a basis. Based on the base. We're voting on our colleagues as a basis. [[13:44:55]] For 215 I'll be back in a minute. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I propose to return to draft Law 5607. And I ask everyone to vote. I'm betting on the vote to go back to 5607. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[13:45:47.]] For 217 Colleagues, same story. Who doesn't have a remote? Well, sit anywhere else, see how many free seats there are. I'll put it back on, just sit in that room if you do. It's okay, right? You just had to go deeper. Colleagues, please concentrate. I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 5607. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. We vote, every voice matters. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:46:41]] For 218. I'm putting the next offer on the committee for work, colleagues. I ask you to unite around this proposal. Well, what do we do? Colleagues, I'm proposing draft Law 5607 to the committee on. I'm making an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, well, I'll put it again, this is the last time I'll put it back. Please, for the last time, I propose to return to the vote on the basis of draft Law 5607. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, every voice matters. Please be supportive. [[13:47:57]] For 232 We're back. And, colleagues, stay put. I'm putting the draft Law 5607 on the ground. Please support 5607 as a base. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:48:24]] For 224 Well, two votes. I see. My colleagues, I'm putting it back and forth as a foundation. Please vote return to 5607. Please vote return to 5607. Please be supportive. [[13:48:53]] For 227 We're back. Now I'm putting a bill amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (5607) as a basis. Please vote and please support. Every voice matters. Please be careful. Please support me as a base. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:49:24]] For 227 Decision taken. Colleagues and the next law are very important. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of criminal offences (2897). There's a general position for us to vote for him to return to the committee for further work. And that's why I'm asking us to put him on the stand right now. The first proposal is a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. 2897, abbreviated procedure. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:50:12]] For 176 It will be. Colleagues, the author's report, I'm sorry. Report by the chairman of the Legislative Security Committee, Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u204	Colleagues. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to present briefly as co-author, as did the chairman of the committee, Bill 2897, which was discussed by the committee on March 16, 2016. This is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of criminal offences. A very important bill for all law enforcement agencies, for its adoption will significantly reduce the burden of investigating criminal conduct by an investigator or a prosecutor. The need to adopt this project is also conditioned, firstly, by our State's international commitment to reform criminal justice and, secondly, it is necessary to synchronize the reformed area of criminal law and material criminal law. In order to achieve these goals, it is proposed to introduce into the current criminal legislation of Ukraine the Institute of Criminal Offences. A special part of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is divided into two books: "Criminal Offences" and "Criminal Offences". In the general section of the Criminal Code, Ukraine will make changes that have an impact on the establishment of the Criminal Offences Institute and so on and so forth. But by the way, the drafting of this bill is just an example of how bills should be prepared in the Supreme Council. Yeah, really, it's been a long, long year. But it was indeed a fruitful work with all the legal institutions of Ukraine. First, the Academy, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service. What's more, we've been to the Council of Europe twice to have experts do our expertise and recommend how to get up today and ask this question in order to vote and make a bill. But. If you don't mind. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u205	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u206	But we believe we have a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt a bill on a basis, a committee. But when we consulted with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, by the way, the Attorney General is also the author of this bill when he was a deputy. We've come to the conclusion that this bill needs to be worked out, we need to make it more quality and professional. So there's a proposal to send this bill back to read again, and I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u207	Thank you. Colleagues, let's have a quick discussion. Please sign up: two for, two for, against us not to lose our votes. No, please, two for, two for, two for, very short. Ostrikova is being handed over by Olena Sotnik. Please, Olena Sotnik, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I understand that this bill is really a conceptually very difficult to understand. Because he needs to rethink the concept of crime at all and, I would say, decriminalizing a whole series of crimes. Because, long ago, the Council of Europe and, in particular, the European Court of Human Rights had ruled against Ukraine to the point that even our administrative offences were criminal in nature. What does it mean to create a specific concept of criminal misconduct? He predicts that, in fact, we will reduce the pressure on our law enforcement agencies on the one hand. Because, as of 2016, 200 thousand criminal conducts, only a fourth of them are heavy and particularly heavy, 40 percent of criminal conduct is light crimes, such as slight bodily harm or petty theft. But it takes a lot of effort for investigators to do so, and they spend just as much time investigating criminal crimes as they do investigating crimes that could actually do right now to investigate serious crimes and thereby reduce crime in our country. Yes, this law, it's very large and has a number of problems. But even if we bring him back to the committee, I immediately warn the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we know that you have another bill that you actually want to return to the Criminal Code of the 1960s of the Soviet Union and deal with criminal misconduct in the order of actual protocol conduct and deprive people of the possibility of protection. We won't let that happen. And even if this bill goes into work, we're going to work with people to protect themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u209	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u210	so that people can protect themselves and that the new criminal offenses institution can deny and dehumanize criminal responsibility in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u211	Colleagues, won't there be any objection if I don't give the next three ladies two minutes, but in a minute, because we're just gonna lose our votes? There will be no objection. Please, Wielikin (“Peter Dust Block”) Oleg Markovich, 1 minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u212	Please pass the word to Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u213	Mr. Valery.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, please understand that this law is essential to us, our faction will be supported. But I know that our colleagues on the committee went to the Council of Europe on a special basis, held consultations, and there are many norms in this law that no longer meet the standards. We ask you, Mr. Head, and from our faction to put the law on re-first reading for further elaboration on the committee. That's true, because we're regulating legislation that's already out of date there, and we're going to correct certain moments, and then that law will pass in the hall, and we'll have a new law that will meet European standards and will meet Ukrainian realities and Ukrainian legislation. Please support the first reading of the committee's return.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u215	Thank you. Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u216	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, I propose to agree with the first co-author of this bill. Of course, this bill has a great purpose and, of course, such ideas of change to criminal, criminal procedural legislation should be, but I think that this bill really needs work and work. So I think let's get it back to re-reading and also give other subjects of the legislative initiative the right to apply alternative laws. And, in principle, all the scarecrows that some of the speakers here say they won't let anything happen, you don't have to say that. I think it's entirely your opinion, all of the legislators have the right to submit alternative bills, and already the hall will determine who will support those committees' laws, not exactly one faction that can't handle its own problems in Lviv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u217	Colleagues, therefore, are the last of the performances. In a minute, we'll move on to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the workplace. The last closing statement is Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u218	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Please support the position of committee head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m0.u219	Thank you. We're moving on to making a decision. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm going to make this proposal, which was made by the chairman of the committee from the Supreme Council's rostrum. Okay. So I'm going to put the first proposal -- based on it, then the committee -- for work. But I'm going to remind you that the mobilisation and common position is for the committee to work on. So the first proposal, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of criminal offences (number 2897) is based. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:59:24]] For 113 The decision is not taken. And next, the committee's proposal is a compromise -- to return to the committee to prepare for the first reading again. I propose a draft of Law 2897 to be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. This is a common, common position. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:00:02]] For 214 I'm going to make an offer to get back to this one. Colleagues, please mobilize. I propose to return to the vote for the re-reading. Please vote, please support 2897. If it doesn't work, I'll put the subject back. Please vote, please support. [[14:00:36]] For 215 Next: Return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further processing. Colleagues, how's that? Could it be this format? Please, come on, colleagues, come into the hall, let's make a decision. I am proposing to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[14:01:17]] For 216 Colleagues, advise on how to be. Give me some advice! Committee, Anton! Come back again? Put it on the way back again? My colleagues, I'll put you back on the vote. We've exhausted the entire list. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then it will be rejected. The last vote, to return, if there are no votes, it will be rejected. The committee head says it'll take a year to get back to him. I am voting on the proposal to return to debate 2897. Please vote, please support! [[14:02:17]] For 212 The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of criminal offences (2897) has been rejected. Colleagues, according to the Rules, I close the mornings. Oh, sorry, sorry, colleagues! Oleg, I haven't closed yet. I'm announcing two factions have filed for recess. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there was an application from two factions for a break. I didn't announce it, it was my fault, I was too focused on the legislative process. I'm just asking you right now, now, or at two o'clock? Oh, second. Four o'clock, right? I apologize. I was just too focused on the legislative process and I didn't hear your request from two factions. At 4:00 or when you say, she'll be bugged and given a word for a break. So I announce the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm calling the plenary meeting closed until 4:00 in the morning. At 4 p.m., I invite everyone to come to the hall to continue our work.
