ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Come into the hall and get ready for registration. Dear colleagues! Please register. Please register. [[10:05:30.]] 340 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Welcome to the Hiccup, a great light holiday! May the power of Christian water give us all strength and health! And first of all, our warriors, who are fighting in the East today with the forces of evil for our faith and our freedom! Christ was baptized! Also, colleagues, I would like to let you know and urge everyone to take a break to attend the "Block-Post of Memory" exhibition, which is held in Parliament's towers, right at the entrance to the right. This exhibition exhibits the personal belongings of Ukrainian soldiers and volunteer soldiers who, literally from Maidan in the early days of Russian aggression, went to the front and laid their lives for Ukraine's independence on Saur-Mogil, under Ilovysk and Debalts. This exhibition in parliament is held until tomorrow, with volunteers standing by touring. And today there must be both the dead and the brothers. And I urge everyone to take a break and go to the show, see it. And I'm sure it'll remind us of the main tasks that we have in this Parliament and remind us that we are a parliament of a warring country. We're going straight to the agenda today, we don't have speeches. And so I'm going to ask all the national MPs right now to concentrate, and we're going to start immediately with the vote, and we're going to vote for the motion for a reduced procedure. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall and take their seats and prepare for the vote. So please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. The first draft of the law that we have in order of the day is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children (to improve the legal status of services for children). A bill supported by all factions that are important. And I'm going to suggest that we look at it in a simplified way. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Now I'm going to put a motion for a reduced procedure to vote. Please. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children (to improve the legal status of services for children) (5526), the proposal to deal with it in a simplified manner. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:10:06]] For 124 I'll put it again, if there's not enough votes, we'll go over the full procedure. But I think our day will be much more productive if we work harder. And so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and now I'm going to put this motion back on the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. So my colleagues, so now I'm going to make another proposal, I'm going to review the reduced procedure, and I'm counting on support. We today have a day in order and a constitutional court issue, and the issue of local self - government, so that we can work intensively, is important to us that we are bills, especially those that unite all and on which there are not many issues that we can consider in a simplified procedure. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting once again on the motion for a short-term motion for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children (to improve the legal status of child services) 5526, a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:12:33]] For-143 I see they haven't made it. I can see it's hard to get into work after a morning bath. My colleagues, please, we don't have enough votes. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the motion for a reduced procedure of 5526. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote, 5526, summary procedure. Vote, colleagues, please support! Vote. [[10:14:06]] For-152. 152 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children (for the Improvement of the Legal Status of Child Services) (No. 5526). The bill is designed to improve and strengthen the mechanisms for child services that are based on implementation in the relevant area of public policy on the social protection of children. Today, there are more than 700 services in Ukraine for children, social and social services for children's social status, such as the prevention of child care and homelessness, the need for operational activities and their independence from other state authorities and local self-government bodies. Therefore, the proposed amendments to legislation require the need to ensure the effectiveness and independence of services in children’s affairs. Thus, for example, the bill proposes that the legal service for child services be legally established so that they can react quickly by making appropriate decisions about children. In this regard, it is intended to provide these services with their own form, a seal with the image of the State Herb of Ukraine and their designation, for the purpose of providing them with appropriate material and technology, for the purchase of items and materials for long-term use, and so on. Define the principles for the formation of a full-time workforce, taking into account the number of children living in the territory of the service. Thus, the adoption of the bill will allow a uniform approach to the definition of the legal status of child services, improve their work, allow them to carry out their tasks more quickly. In turn, the effectiveness of child service will affect the overall state of affairs in the protection of children’s rights, freedoms, and legitimate interests. Dear colleagues, in view of the above, please support the legislative initiative and adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u3	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Spores Committee, Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! I think today is really Bill 5526 -- it's pretty serious, and we have to treat it with great respect. Because it is suggested that parts of the articles be restored. 4 The Ukrainian Act on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children, which was deleted in 2012, identified the standards for the regularity of services for children and the status of the services listed. Quite a lot of effort has been made by all the ministries, quite a lot of work done by the Children's Rights Commissioner of President Mikola Mikolayovich Kuleb, who is among us. That's why. The main scientific and expert office pointed out that the bill was adopted as a basis. During the discussion, members of the committee stressed that the restoration of the standard of regular services for children would contribute to the proper performance of the State’s role in respect and protection of children’s rights. At the same time, taking into account the sharp increase in cases of child rights violations, particularly serious crimes against children, the significant increase in the duties of Child Services, the members of the committee expressed their support for the increased standards. According to statistical estimates, of the 7.6 million Ukrainian children under difficult living conditions there are 1.2 million children — almost 16 percent. We want to remind ourselves that in the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence, prepared for second reading by the Child Services, they will be given additional powers to protect children from domestic violence. The committee, however, proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole with the following changes. In the second paragraph of chapter one, the word "two thousand" is replaced by the words "one thousand", the words "four thousand" is replaced by the words "two thousand." To complement this with a sentence: "The number of employees in matters."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u6	The content of “a stable number of employees in the field of children of executive bodies of rural, village councils, the corresponding unified territorial communities is established at the expense of one employee for not more than one thousand children, but at least one employee for a united territorial community”. So please support the committee and adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole in this paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u7	Thank you. And I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u8	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Please pass the word to my colleague, Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the Block of Petra Prashenko supports the adoption of Bill 5526. After considering and adopting this bill, we will improve our work and improve the effectiveness of child services. One of the main reasons for drafting this law on homeless children, children in need of care, is that they are involved in combat. The number of displaced persons, including refugees, has increased dramatically with fighting. In view of this, there is a need at the legislative level to create conditions to improve the effectiveness of care and care bodies. In fact, this bill will provide the necessary conditions, normalize the work of organs and services in children’s affairs. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u10	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u11	This bill is very important and "The Self-Help Union" will certainly support it, as the authors of this bill have representatives of the Self-Help Union and representatives of other factions of Parliament. Everyone remembers the terrible tragedy that happened a month ago. The "young mother" is in her paws, so to speak, locked up her teenage children for nine days. Sadly, one child died, and another girl was found unconscious. Could this tragedy have been prevented? Most likely, yes. Because a thorough examination of the situation revealed that these children had not been admitted to the doctor for 10 months, they had not visited the kindergarten for four months. Why is it that in our country every third child suffers from hunger, lives in a crisis family? That is because it is the national institutions that are physically unable to detect in time all children who suffer from violence living in those families and who are brought up by parents who are unable to perform their duties as parents. To date, the state has forgotten that exactly the social workers who have to identify the problem in advance and warn the tragedy are very few, not more than 4 000 for the whole country. With this bill, we limit the minimum number of social workers working with families to all Ukrainian families in order to identify the problem early and prevent the tragedy. In order to make our future a success. We must now take care of the success of each child and his or her welfare. So we ask very much for this holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u13	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give me the word of Grandichovich Mikolli.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Members, this bill is now extremely important when it comes to working with our children and what my colleagues from other factions have just talked about, we also support it. In order not to take time, "The People's Front" will support this position, will vote and turn to all other factions to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Colleagues, are they still willing to come out of factions? Then, with your permission, please, Andrew Lozova, from the Radical Party, and then from Kuleba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u16	Christ Baptizes! Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Now, dear colleagues, today is not only the festival of Vodhrest, but also the second festival of the Ukrainian 'baptism'. Three years ago, in the "holy" fires of Gruszewski Ukraine, they proved that they were an unspeeded nation, not a biomass. And so it's particularly painful to talk about such bitter things that what was happening in the country during the Yanukovic regime, the terrible repressions that the Ukrainian people have been up against, all of this continues. What now, dear fellows, is happening on Volina? There is Volodymyr-Wolinsky district, where an incredible stream of smuggling goes through Ukrainian amber, Ukrainian forest through the Izov railway station, where my colleague Mosiyczuk and I blocked the exit of the forest, and through the Ustilug checkpoint, where thousands of cars with smuggled forest and other goods. This is controlled by Prime Minister Vladimir-Wallinsky Peter Saganyuk. When our deputies from the Radical Party, including Sergey Barczewski, began to oppose the smuggling schemes and the theft of Vladimir Volinsky's budget by Peter Saganyuk. Add 10 seconds, 10 seconds, please. It's a faction right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u17	Colleagues, I'd like to give you the floor to speak to the Authorized Child of the President of Ukraine of Kulebi. Please turn on the microphone. And I'm sorry, after this speech, we're going to vote. And that's why I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. After this talk, we move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Kuleb.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the Supreme Council, we see that children can consolidate the Supreme Council today. This is a painful issue of protecting children’s rights and interests, namely, the increase in the number of workers working in child services today. I'm asking you very much right now, because there aren't a lot of deputies in this room that can vote in favour of this bill. Because this will enable us to prevent the death and disability of children in the future. And how many employees work for children’s services depends on how much we can prevent the loss of children and prevent the loss of children. So I'm addressing once again, honourable national MPs, please support, because no faction, let's say, has spoken against it, everyone is unanimously supporting it. But today we need to vote in favour of this bill, which depends on children's fates, and I'm stressing it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Thus, the draft law is concluded. Please prepare yourself for making decisions, taking jobs, going into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children (to improve the legal status of services in children's matters) (No. 5526) on the basis and overall, of the Committee's proposals. Colleagues, all supported the discussion of the bill. Please vote, please support 5526 as a whole. Vote, fellows! We're gonna support the kids! Please vote. [[10:29:08]] For 199 I see it didn't work. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. I'll give you a minute to invite the deputies into the hall and make an offer to come back. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Prepare to vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children (to improve the legal status of services for children). Please prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to come back, colleagues. Please vote. So we vote for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, 5526, return to consideration. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:32:04]] For 218. Colleagues, several deputies came out of the hall during the vote. I ask you very much to return to the hall and take up jobs. Here every voice has a weight, you just disgrace the Supreme Council of Ukraine by your conduct. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please return to the hall. I'm asking you to support everyone. This is a question supported by all factions, a question only in discipline. So once again, I propose to go back to the draft Law on the Improvement of the Legal Status of Child Services. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:33:49]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Please. The prince solved the situation. So, colleagues, please take your jobs, please come in. And I'm putting the bill on improving the legal status of services in children's matters (room 5526) on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please, every voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. We vote 5526 on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. We'll support the kids. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:34:48]] For 230 230 for. The law is passed. Greetings, welcome to those who prepared. Next. Attention, colleagues! The next question we have is ratification. The first is the draft Act on the amendment of the Protocol to Part One (a) of Article 1 and Part Three of Article 14 of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (0124). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:35:49]] For-143 Once again, I'll put it back together, colleagues. Of course, we can consider ratification for an hour. Right, we need to figure out the question, we need to study. Colleagues, once again, please support the review of the reduced procedure 0124 ratification, please support, please vote 0124 summary procedure. Please vote. [[10:36:38]] For-147 Colleagues, I'm putting it one last time, if there's no votes, we're going into full procedure, we're going to go into full procedure. So, colleagues who support the proposal to consider draft Law 0124 on a simplified procedure that supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:37:21]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report, and I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of the Interior of the Virgin Anastasia Eugenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u20	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine, good afternoon! Today, I propose to your consideration the draft Law 0124 on the accession to the Protocol on the Introduction of Rights to Article (a) of Part One of Article 1 and Part Three of Article 14 of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road. I would like to remind you that the bill is about ratifying the protocol on the introduction of rights in order to improve the harmonization of national legislation into European Union legislation and to improve the safety of the transport of dangerous goods by road. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in line with the Ministries of Infrastructure, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Finance, Economic Development and Trade. I would like to remind you that as early as 2000, Ukraine had acceded to the European Agreement and that the adoption of the Protocol on Entitlement would mean that Ukraine was giving its consent to the position of the Agreement. The implementation of the act will ensure compliance by Ukraine with the internal procedures necessary for the validity of the Protocol of Rights. Implementation of the project does not require expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u21	Thank you, dear colleague. Dear Hall, I asked you to listen more carefully to the speakers from the rostrum. Mrs. Deeva, you may proceed to your seat, please. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Hopko. Dear colleagues, we will now be speaking as the head of the profile committee, let's keep the room quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Christ is baptizing! Beautiful. Colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday at the meeting considered a draft bill by the President of Ukraine to accede to the Protocol to amend paragraph 1 of the article and part 1 (b) of the third article of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road. The aim of the bill is to increase safety in the transport of dangerous goods by road, to bring the national legislation of Ukraine into line with the European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods and the implementation plan for Directive 2008 68 of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods. The committee considered and requested the Supreme Council to accept the bill as a basis and as a whole. So I ask you now not to waste your time supporting the ratification of this document, my colleague. And I would also like to say from the committee that yesterday we discussed the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on Ukraine's foreign policy, because, in society today, there are a lot of discussions about the state strategy in eastern Ukraine, I propose that in Parliament we make a platform, which is already headed by Mrs. Irina Herachenko, to gather all the political forces to avoid overpopulation, a pyar on such important and very sensitive topics as: what to do with Donbas, how to share the Crimea. To sit at the national table of negotiations, to develop this strategy and to communicate with one voice all over the world how to get Donbas back and not allow enemies to take advantage of the internal political debates, the debates that are now unfolding, particularly in the state of parliament. It is extremely important to work as one national assembly and to remember lessons in 1917, not to lose the nationality of sitting with the participation of the President, the Prime Minister, the speaker, the parliamentarians, all the key political forces, and to talk about our foreign policy plans for 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, we are having a ratification discussion. I'm asking you to sign up: two in favour, two in front of the factions wishing to step out of this. From this item in the agenda. Record, please. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Paul Kishkar, he'll be speaking. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u24	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Actually, after Mrs. Hopko's enough quality speech, it's hard to add something. I ask you to pay more attention to the discipline of the national deputies in order to really support and vote positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Paul. Please, from the Radical Party of Light is now the People's Deputy of Fishing. He'll be out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my speech is the cry of the soul. Two weeks ago, they tried to kill the key top manager of S-group, Sergei Bilago. In the center of the Dniper, the man in the mask stabbed him with two deep wounds, and he was barely alive. Yesterday another Roman Sorokin employee was severely beaten in the head by castes and cut off part of his ear. You can see what these bandits did. Another employee was beaten twice, and he will never walk again. A year ago, a demonstration attempt was made on me. This is a continuation of the enormous pressure of many years on me, on my family, and on a multi - thousand - year - old group. During the time of Janukovich’s criminal gang, corrupt forces tried to shut down the business that we created from scratch and that was 25 years old. After the Dignity Revolution, the same corrupt forces resumed the same criminal cases in order to pressure me as a opposing politician. Crazy money is spent on the media's content to compromise me. Many of you have already been asked to intervene in this disgraceful campaign. Who's doing this? In our opinion, this is one of the co-owners of ABB Hennaday Butkevitch. But whoever it is, it's a killer who's long gone by. Dear colleagues, I urge you to be objective. We may have different points of view, but we have to treat corruption, banditry, and criminalism the same way. We have a responsibility to protect people. I can't keep my mouth shut anymore. I want to contact the President, the Attorney General, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, the Minister of Internal Affairs with a request to intervene and ensure that these cases are fully investigated. I want to ask the head of the Ukrainian Security Service to conduct a serious investigation into the activities of a large-scale criminal organization that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay attention to Mrs. Hopko, who spoke before this, and to the distinguished Mr. Sergey Rybalka, who has repeatedly been brought to the attention of the colleagues in the session room who presided over article 36 of the Rules, that during the discussion of a bill, we should discuss a bill. Considering that you both spoke on very sensitive and important topics, I didn't turn off the microphone. But I broke the Rules. Dear Mr. Sergio, I ask the Secretary of Parliament to make this statement as a parliamentary address. But at the same time as the chairman, I very much ask you, please, during the discussion of a bill, let us discuss a bill or a bill. If there is an important talk, please, the factions take a break, there is a possibility, and they come out of it. Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please. Dear colleagues, there were only two factions. Are there still those who would like to discuss this bill in the hall? Ratification. You don't? Oh, there is. I haven't been able to sign up for Self-Help. Olena Sotnik, please, out of the way. Turn on the microphone, two minutes. Self-help, which just couldn't log in technically.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u28	Thank you very much. Colleagues, I'm in the text of this bill. Regrettably, it was not specifically about the content of the bill during the presentations. We've already voted with you on Tuesday, which in fact brings our legislation into line with the legislation on the Convention on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. This bill is a continuation of the process, in fact, ratification. This Protocol actually makes one single change in substantive legislation, which is a change in the definition of means of transport. There are no other changes. A very short and very simple bill, so I'm asking you very much to support us in bringing our legislation into line with the transport of dangerous goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Colleagues! Other factions that have not yet expressed their position on this matter want to? No, Paul Kishkar was already speaking from the BP. There's no more wanters. Dear Mr. Head, we can proceed to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. Let's move on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Can we vote? So I am voting on the draft Act on the amendment of the Protocol to Part One (a) of Part One and Part One (b) of Part One of Part Three of Part 14 of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (Number 0124) on the basis and as a whole. This is our international commitment, and I ask everyone to take up jobs and support, colleagues, please take up jobs and support. So please vote, please support as a whole. Vote. Please support, we vote. [[10:49:20]] For 203 Colleagues, well, just when they vote, MPs don't hold discussions in their workplaces. Now, I'm going to put everyone back in the hall, and I'm going to ask them to take their jobs. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm now proposing to go back to draft Law 0124. I ask you to prepare for the vote, please come into the hall. And please support the ratification of 0124 and vote for the return. Colleagues! So please support the proposal to go back to the draft Ratification Act 0124. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:51:43]] For 217 I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please do not leave the hall while voting on international agreements, but go back to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm going to make another proposal to go back to the draft Ratification Act. Please come into the hall, not come out, but into the hall. So everybody's in place, right? Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. These are our international commitments, colleagues. And I ask you to support the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the International Agreement 0124. Please vote and please support. So please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Vote. [[10:54:26]] For 225 We have to scream shame when they come in!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u31	This is an irresponsible position. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. One voice. Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to return to the vote and to the consideration of Bill 0124, this is the ratification of the international agreement. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, vote. Please vote. [[10:55:25]] For 228 Colleagues, we stay where we are. And I put the draft Law 0124 to the vote on the basis and generally, colleagues. On the basis and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues 0124 as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:55:59]] For 234 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues, there's an offer. We are considering international agreements so that we can now consider the issue that remains, which we have included in the agenda, 5636 – on international learning. I want to remind you: this is the Presidential Bill. Draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other states to Ukraine in 2017 for participation in multinational education. It stands a little further, but there's a request and an offer from the President's Representative in the Supreme Council that we take it up now. I would like to remind you that this is a draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the armed forces of other states to enter Ukraine. I'm asking you to support us to move on to this question and consider it now, it goes on. Please vote, please support, colleagues, the transfer of the matter. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[10:57:45]] For the 220. Colleagues, do they understand that this issue allows us to conduct international training with our NATO partners and European countries, which are very important, important, both as symbolic and as real assistance to Ukraine. I ask once again to vote that we now proceed to the consideration of draft Law 5636 on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow troops of other States to enter Ukraine. Please vote and please support us to move on to this issue now. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:58:47]] For 229 229 for. Decision taken. Now we have the first vote -- we're going to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[10:59:09]] For 206 206 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The current political and military situation creates an urgent need to acquire the operational capabilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, particularly through multi-national training with the participation of other states. Under the mentioned activity, arrangements were reached with the partner state armed forces to extend the format and duration of multinational training in Ukraine with the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in 2017. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, together with the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to implement part of article 7 of the Act on the Order of Admission and Conditions of residing in the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine, made a proposal to the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine regarding the admission of troops from other States to Ukraine in 2017 to participate in multinational military training. Also by President of Ukraine's decree of 12 January 2017, number 32017 approved the Plan for Multinational Teachings, with the participation of Ukrainian Armed Forces in Ukraine's territory and their participation in multinational education outside Ukraine for 2017. But it was decided to allow, in 2017, the United States Armed Forces, other NATO member states and member states of the Partnership for Peace programme in the framework of multinational learning. At the same time, to meet the requirements of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Admission and Conditions of Circumstances of the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine", the Head of State was introduced to the Supreme Council and defined as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Act "On the Approval of the Decision of the President of Ukraine concerning the Admission of Military Forces of Other States to the Territory of Ukraine in 2017 for Participation in Multinational Teachings". So please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt bill number 5636 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u33	Thank you. I invite the head of the committee of Pashinski Sergey Volodymyrovich to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear friends! I want to say that the President's representative has reported on the substance of the law. For many years our Armed Forces have been participating in joint training, and for many years our Armed Forces have been participating in peacekeeping operations. But I would like to point out something else, why should this law be approved urgently? Because it is during the multinational training that the most important thing is to establish contacts between our officers and the officers of the Allied countries that are forming such a fraternal brotherhood. And in terms of Russian aggression, it's an extremely important element in preparing for the Russian aggression. I want to point out that we have already taken the first step towards creating these parts, we already have a joint Lithuanian-Polish brigade, the Ukrainian-Polish-Lithuanian brigade. We traditionally conduct both ground education, antiair defence education and marine learning. I very much ask all MPs to concentrate and support this bill. The plan, the joint learning program is approved, all the logistic details are worked out, and this is an important element in raising our resilience with you. The committee supported the decision unanimously. Please support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u35	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. From the Radical Party of Koseljeva, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashka is being handed over to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support the President of Ukraine's decision on joint military training and enhanced cooperation with our partners. This is extremely important for our country, especially today, in the context of the reflection of Russian aggression, the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the development of our sphere of security and defence. At the same time, however, we insist that Ukraine itself must be strong in order to reflect all the external and internal threats that confront us. To have a strong army, strong diplomacy, you have to have a strong economy first. When Ukrainians have jobs, their own national product produced in Ukraine will be sold worldwide. When the stability of the bracelet is based, not on the loans of the International Monetary Fund or on the laundering of gold reserves, but on the export potential of our country, on the increase in the sale of Ukrainian products abroad, then there will be a strong army, a strong diplomacy and a strong country. And, most importantly, only the strong are respected in the world, so when we are asked to demean ourselves today for loans, for some inaugurals, for some kind of reception. When we are strong, all of us will pray, and we will be strong only if we first stand up for Ukraine’s national interests. The interests of our home country, when we work not in the East or the West, we work for our country, for our people, for our economy, for our national producer, for our security and for our defence. And so the Radical Party insists on this and requires the authorities to act exclusively in Ukraine's national interests and not to demonstrate the flexibility of the back in front of anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u37	Thank you. From the People's Front, Lapin Igor Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u39	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. There is nothing to hold back from adopting this bill, and it must be accepted and voted for by all the national deputies present. I want to remind you that we have powerful Armed Forces, who are getting invaluable experience every day, and this experience is being passed on to our partner countries in the same multinationals. We should all remember that the aggressor country's wars always end in the capital of the aggressor country, and that's what we need to work on. We vote "yes" and we continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Sergey's Melnichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u41	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! This bill really needs to be supported, but we need to understand that every training that is being done is all played out by so-called theatres of combat action, in which generalities and seniors of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff and so on -- people who actually betrayed us on the front. The reform of the Armed Forces has not been carried out and the traitors sitting in the offices are still there. Who gives assurances that, knowing the plans of us and our allies, they will not strike us in the back again when there is an active phase of fighting. In addition to these bills, we need to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, the National Police. Because they're supposed to be pseudoreforms that are started, they're not. Traitors sit all over the offices. That's why I'm here to start, really, reforms in the power structures. To banish, to remove all that was planted there, and to renew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u42	Thank you. From "Fatherland" Tarasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u43	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. First of all, I want to assure the House that the Fatherland faction supports this bill. The other one. I want to say that this bill is routine because it's about military training that's been going on for decades. At the same time, the difference between these teachings and previous teachings and Russian aggression is that if our military had previously been experienced by partners from NATO member countries, today our partners from NATO member countries have gained the experience of our military in fighting with Russian aggressors and their mercenaries. I call on everyone on behalf of the Fatherland faction to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u44	Thank you. From "self-help" Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u45	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Unit, Ternopil. Obviously, our faction will support this draft president's decision, and perhaps a lot of us will take it completely formal, because I think the hall will fully support it. And we think that's a technical question. But I would like to point out that, despite the benefits we receive from such trainings, it is our military personnel who have the opportunity to acquire new weapons models, new combat tactics, to acquire certain issues of compatibility with other armies of other countries. But on the other hand, there is a problem during these studies. We have a practice where joint training in the formation of special operations forces for a very long time has not been able to find our General Staff a territorial location, and the time and resources of the country have been used. Well, softly speaking, ineffective. Today, our educational centers are far from the models that the NATO countries are offering today. So in the course of these international teachings, we also need to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u47	We also need to improve our teaching centers. So that the boys who have studied together can pass on this experience to other military personnel who are now signing contracts to the Armed Forces. With this in mind, I ask the entire room to support this vote and the General Staff to improve the training of military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u48	Colleagues, please come into the hall. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. Please, as long as the MPs come in, Kishkar, one minute. Turn on the microphone. And please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, in fact, this is a technical nature of the law that directly affects the resilience of our departments. I'm sorry that there are only two large-scale studies planned for 2017, and I'm happy that they're actually going to be, and they're going to be full-scale. For my 15-year military career, I would dream of participating in them. I agree that in many ways we are now passing on our experience to the military, including the American. And I will be very pleased if this experience is to be extended to the creation of bilateral units under appropriate international agreements in the example of our Polish-Ukrainian brigade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u50	Thank you. So the discussion is over. All the speakers expressed support. This is indeed an important draft law that allows us to conduct joint training with our military allies: NATO, the EU. And so I ask everyone to take a responsible vote, please take their seats, we move on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2017 to participate in multinational education, to the committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, support, vote, please. [[11:14:08]] For 236 The law is passed. Congratulations, dear colleagues. And I have the last offer. Before we go to education, before we go to education, we have one very important question today, and we hesitated to put it on or not. Please return to the hall, colleagues. So this is a question of the Constitutional Court. I'm going to put an offer on the vote to put it to the table right now, if there are votes, we can get into it, if there are no votes, we're going to go straight to education. So, colleagues, I ask you to take up jobs and prepare yourself, this is an important question, 5356 draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And if we have enough votes, we can get into his consideration and make a decision today. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, it's in order of day, just for a few questions, my proposal to move it to now, and I'm asking you to focus. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we move the draft Constitutional Court Act of Ukraine into the agenda and now we're looking at it. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote and please support. So 5336, moving the question into consideration now. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:16:01]] For-167 The offer is not supported in the hall. And that's why we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a block of education. This is a draft of Law 4783, amending Chapter XV of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure, please. [[11:16:45]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. With the celebration of all of you, us, the Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues, the basis for the drafting of this bill was the need to ensure the reception and preparation of postgraduate students by scientific institutions in 2016-17. Unfortunately, in view of the failure of the former administration of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to implement the requirements of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the start of the National Education Quality Assurance Agency under threat of complete failure, a state order for the preparation of higher-quality personnel has been issued. So at the request of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, we prepared an appropriate bill, which unfortunately had not been considered in the previous year. And on June 14, 2016, the bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Science and Education, with the participation of Minosveta representatives, who made a number of substantial proposals, which were fully supported by the committee. The implementation of the bill does not require additional financial costs from the state budget. The main scientific and expert office, after considering the bill, believes that the results of the first reading can be accepted as a basis. But on the basis of the observations we made, we ask for a transcript of the appropriate proposals to adopt this bill both on the basis and in general. That's why it's under the stenogram. Paragraph 2 shall be supplemented by new sub-paragraphs 15-17 in the following wording: “Science institutions in which, at the time of the entry into force of the Higher Education Act, a postgraduate has been opened, have the right to continue to be admitted to postgraduate according to relevant specialities and their own educational programmes until September 1, 2017 without licensing relevant educational activities. 16. The preparation of postgraduate students, initiated in accordance with legislation that is valid for the Act on Higher Education, continues within the time frame provided for by this legislation and within the funding provided for this preparation. And then The standards of part three and four of articles 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u52	Please, let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u53	For Higher Education, on accreditation of specialised council scientists, the National Agency for Quality Assurance of Higher Education becomes effective six months after the agency's start. Until that date, specialized council scientists are considered accredited until the deadline for their credentials is reached. " In this connection, sub-paragraphs 15-18 are considered to be sub-paragraphs 18-21 respectively. Dear colleagues! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Svivacowski. Dear colleagues! According to the Rules, we do not have a co-rapporteur for this bill. But he asks for the first Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Kovtunec Vladimir Vitaliyovich. I now propose the next proposal for faction representatives to discuss the bill and then we give the floor to the Ministry of Profiles. Please write down two for, two against factions to discuss the bill. And then we're going to give the summary word to the representative of the department of profile. Please, People's Front, National Deputy Bondar. From your seat or from the rostrum will you be performing, my dear fellow? Out of place, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u55	Please give me the word of Silicone Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u56	Please give Kremen a word. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u57	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, indeed, we supported this bill, the draft law to amend Chapter XV of the Higher Education Act as early as July 2016, when the issue of the creation of the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance was not really resolved. There were some difficulties in assigning and choosing direction, namely, the NAME itself. But the situation is gradually moving toward the finish line. And I think the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers will consider the issue. At the same time, we must not stop the implementation of the Higher Education Act, and in doing so must create all the necessary conditions for effective specialised councils to work, in order for postgraduates to work, in order for both scientific and scientific capabilities to work in Ukraine, of course, to grow and acquire new turnovers. So I would like to ask our colleagues to pay close attention to the story of our proposed changes, which are supported by our committee and our decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you as a human being who has a direct bearing on the preparation of graduate students as well as on the Master's degree. I want to say that there are a lot of star children who graduate, but because they're unable to pay their own tuition fees, they're refusing to do so. And I'd very much like, my dear colleagues, to support, because every state that thinks about its future must form a powerful human and scientific potential. These are children who are now in postgraduate, who were already born in an independent Ukraine. They're 26 today, up to 30 years old. These are the ones who, after 5, 6, 7 years, will issue scientific products on the mountain. So this is an extremely important bill. I ask you all to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Gregory Restless of Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u61	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u62	Turn on the microphone for Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, by harmonising our legislation to the requirements of the European Union, we have adopted in due course a progressive and good law on higher education, and there we have introduced a new concept, the very scientific degree of the Doctor of Philosophy. So this bill was developed by us in cooperation with a colleague of Spiowakovsky, who reported it, due to our absence, we developed this project, the proper conditions for obtaining the newly introduced scientific degree of philosophy. I want to remind everyone of the two essential features of this law. First. It is established that higher education institutions and scientific institutions, where, at the time of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, the postgraduate has been opened, have the right to continue to receive postgraduate and to train philosophy doctors by September 1, 2018. And a second feature. Specialised dissertation councils are formed by January 1, 2019 in an order established by the Ukrainian legislation, which was in force until July 1, 2014, and the decisions of such specialized scientists are approved by the Ministry of Education. Colleagues, the necessary clarifications needed for this law, we had no comments on the committee. Please support me by taking into account the suggestions made by the committee’s chairman, my colleague Spowakovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, only three factions have signed up for this bill. Are they still desirable? Maybe some faction didn't express its position. None. Then please give me two minutes to speak to the representative of the Ministry of Profiles, Mr. Kovtuntz Volodymyr, this is the first Deputy Minister of Education and Science, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry initiated the drafting of such a bill a year ago in view of the fact that the Education Act introduced the postgraduate licensing procedure. And this procedure required a lot of effort, both from academic institutions and from the great effort on the Ministry of Education and Science, which is responsible for licensing. Since the law was not adopted at the time, we mobilized all possible resources, and now more than 75 percent of the scientific institutions have been licensed for postgraduate training. So the problem is essentially solved and the postgraduate is licensed. Higher education institutions, scientific institutions are licensed, and under the Higher Education Act, they are now preparing postgraduate students. So the need, the relevance of paragraph 15, is out. As for paragraph 16. If the ministry wanted more authority, we would say, let's take this point. But we would like to see that the ideology of the Higher Education Act is sustained to the end: there are separate powers of administration and powers that apply to quality assurance of education. And we've done everything we can to make the National Agency work to ensure the quality of education. We hope that the question of the appointment of the head of the agency will be resolved in the near future, and it is this agency that must be responsible for the accreditation of specialized dissertation councils. In the area where the preparation for old legislation continues, the Ministry and its Athentic College approve the Council’s decision, and a new system that expands the autonomous rights of higher education institutions should continue to work. That's why the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u66	Please, 30 seconds, let me finish the honorary deputy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u67	Therefore, the Ministry does not insist on the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u68	The position is clear, the Ministry is not insisting, but the committee is insisting. The hall will be defined. For the hall to be defined, it is very important that the Ukrainian national MPs return to their jobs, because we are about to go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to return to your posts. We will now proceed to the vote on this bill. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to your workplace and to those who are standing in the hall and those who are in the towers. Please. Thank you all for coming back. Dear colleagues, please return to your workplace. And now we're putting to the vote in the first reading, in the first reading only, the draft Act amending Chapter XV of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (for the introduction of postgraduate and specialized councils). Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Please be supportive. Vote. Vote, Your Honor. [[11:29:12]] For-182 We didn't make it. Let's do it again. I urge everyone to return to the session room. Dear colleagues, please, if someone has another simple point of view, you still have to determine "yes," "against," "resisted," but show the presence of the national deputies in their jobs. I'm voting back on Bill 4783. And all those who have not joined the vote, please come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u69	Fellows, I'll put it back on the table. If there are no votes required, the bill will be rejected. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a return vote. One more thing, can we go back and vote on the basis? So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 4783. Please take up your jobs. And please vote, please support me, colleagues. Voting, voting. [[11:31:51]] For 209 Colleagues, may we support the proposal to return to the committee for further work? Again, huh? They're coming up, okay. We'll wait 30 seconds, please invite the deputies into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council, as the MPs, Spiowakovsky, come in for one minute. And I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please, Spiowakovsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 15 percent is not settled because we haven't opened the agency. But 15 percent are people, they're postgraduates, we're deciding the fate of people. If this is our attitude toward people, well, there's no problem. But let's show in this great celebration that our attitude towards Ukrainian people, who create science, who form human capital here in Ukraine, makes sense to us and is sacred. Thank you and please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs, we're going into the hall. They're still asking for 30 seconds. The MPs are rising. Cream, one minute. The flint. Turn on the microphone. Please take up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Taras Kremen. In view of the obvious concerns and doubts that the National Deputies have raised, I propose to return to the vote and to propose that this law be passed on as a basis, so that we then take into account the possible warnings of our colleagues on the committee and then, obviously, if we need it, we have adopted it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm just going to lay the groundwork. That's why I'm asking you to come back. I'm just going to lay the groundwork so that we can take all the warnings into account between the first and the second readings. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. I'll make my first offer to come back. But if it's not supported, the bill will be rejected. Please take up your jobs. And I would like to support the proposal to return to draft Law 4783. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:34:28]] For 221 Four votes. Colleagues, in fact, lack a few votes. Colleagues, can you sit in the workplace? Mr. Constantinowski! Please take up jobs. Tell the boys who are closer. Everybody's in place, right? So, colleagues. So, colleagues, please concentrate. Everybody's taken jobs, right? Everybody's in position. So, colleagues, we vote back to 4783. Colleagues, please concentrate. Please vote. Everybody's in place, right? We vote return to 4783. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[11:35:45.]] For the 220. Law 4783 was rejected. Let's move on to the next draft of Law 5240. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (for the "younger specialist" level). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me. [[11:36:28]] For a hundred and 193 for. Four-for-one, that's a decision you make. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Marchenko Alexandra Alexandrovich. Please. Siewakovsky, you're gonna report it, right? The original author is Marcenko Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u74	It doesn't, does it? Then Singerkowski, please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! Unfortunately, San Sanic Marchenka is gone, but I want to put it simply in words to show that this bill is being passed. Two years ago, we accepted. Not us, not our calling, passed the Higher Education Act. As a result of the adoption of this law, the whole education sector is now technical and college -- they're addicted, they're not there. They're not in the higher education system, and they're not in the vocational education system. The basic law on education is not yet adopted. As a result, September 1st. I'm also going to the Opposition Block, because that's a question that you're going to be discussing with your voters. As a result, techs and colleges are nowhere. If we're with you. The committee unanimously voted in favour of the bill. If we don't make this decision with you, it's time for technologies and colleges to get proper licenses at the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. I want to take into account, you know, when this line is formed, what are the risks of that. So if we don't vote with you now to support technicians and colleges in order to have them, until we pass the basic Education Act, they have the same opportunity as CTU to have the same fate. So please pay attention to that. Dear colleagues, it's up to you to vote whether or not there will be an education sector in the Ukrainian system as well as technical schools and colleges. Dear colleagues, let's support them, this is a perfectly normal step on the way to building the education system of Ukraine, and let's not repeat the fate of vocational education for technicians and colleges. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u76	Thank you for the report. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Abdulin Alexander, turn on the microphone. He's handing John Kirilenko over. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u77	Thank you, Alexander Rafkatovich, for the opportunity to speak. Dear colleagues, it would be very sad if we don't have enough votes in the room right now. It is not just the fate of hundreds of thousands of young men and girls who are being acquired that was once called secondary special education. Language, including for the fate of our economy, for middle-range specialists. Everyone in the district has such a technique or a college, and not one in every city, every small city even the center has such educational facilities, that's hundreds of thousands of our young people. Friends, you have to give them a clear definition that they need countries that are needed as mid-range specialists, which are now extremely lacking, you know, in manufacturing, how important these people are. If we are. Now we don't have enough votes, we're leaving again, sorry for that word, hung hundreds of thousands of people. Guys, there's no resistance at the committee meeting, everyone's unanimous support. I appeal to all the deputies to vote in favour of this law, it is very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u79	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give it to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u80	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the three important documents that stand in the agenda today, and they are directly related to this bill. This is, first of all, the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which we have to implement as far as possible this year. Secondly, this is the education bill that is now under consideration for the second reading on our committee, separate from the articles that create an appropriate resonance in the professional environment, among the national deputies, of our colleagues in the Ukrainian state. And of course, the third important document is a short-term programme of activities of the Ukrainian Government by the 20th year, where in the part of education, science and innovation, a colossal role has been given to vocational education institutions and, of course, to educational institutions I, II levels of accreditation. So this law, this bill that we're currently considering, came about in 2016, when there was really a huge need to answer key questions for our technivers and colleges. I think it will be decided by the Education Act. So I propose to support this bill in the first reading. And understanding today's mood of our colleagues in the session room, we'll discuss with them all the necessary comments that have arisen, for the second reading and for the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u82	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! For a number of objective and subjective reasons, we are now putting down superfluous laws. Well, there are really no deputies in the voting room. I'm asking you to make a decision today. Let those of you who want to go swimming in the trenches go. Let those who cannot return not return, you understand. But it hurts to see that excessive laws do not pass. If we do not vote today, we do not understand when we will return to them. But we understand that these are the bills that we have to vote on. And so I'm just begging you as Head of the Supreme Council, make a decision, take responsibility. And it's either everyone in the hall, or it's gonna have to stop today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u83	This is the right position for you. But I think, along with the unacceptable fact that there are no deputies at work. If we see that this is the situation, maybe I'll make a signal vote. And we'll see if there's any potential in the room for making any decisions. Let's take another look at this law, let's exchange thoughts about what's going to happen. And maybe that's what we're going to do. But I think we should focus now, call all the deputies into the hall and make positive decisions. And now I give the floor to Chizmar from the Radical Party. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The Radical Party faction clearly supports high standards in education. Ukraine wants to integrate into Europe and thus its specialists must meet European levels and standards of education. To that end, we passed the law, and on July 1, 2014, he went into action, through which we reviewed the higher education system and committed all the colleges, all the other, well, so-called educational institutions that were produced over the course of 20 years, where we taught not so well, to go through licensing, to accredit their educational programs, to review the teaching and teaching composition. To bring our education into line with European standards. In two years this law has not been fulfilled. The law gave a pause, two years to be relicensed. If the first level of accreditation is not relicensed, it becomes a system of vocational and technical education, normal vocational and technical education. It's not closing. And that is why we should still look at this law today. Because that number of colleges, look at yourself in the areas where they teach five teachers in ten colleges, they go from one to one in half, they take money as a higher education, and in fact, it's technical education, we just take money from poor families, giving them just as much education as they do higher education, that's all. We're loading pockets for private sector owners. And so nothing changes in education. Now we want to continue this until 2020, this food! So, dear fellows, I would still have you, I would have drawn your attention to this law. Because we don't have to take money from people for some kind of education. And we did not adopt a new law to ensure that today the survival of the old system, where food was simply produced in education, existed tomorrow. They should bring their educational programs and teaching facilities to the level required by today’s educational program. And the term was enough. That's why I'm calling for a vote in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u85	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u86	Therefore, perhaps in the first reading and vote, but before the second reading, to review this law and make adjustments to it, which would prevent the creation of purely commercial structures in Ukraine’s higher institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u87	Thank you. I'll give it to everyone, colleagues. I'll give everyone a word, just in a certain sequence: first from factions who didn't speak and then from MPs. Okay? Please, from Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk. Please. Two minutes, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very common in the Ukrainian Parliament that we do bad things with good intentions. In fact, this law is very manipulative. Today, we have a phenomenon when higher education institutions, indeed with a good purpose, provide poor quality services in their so - called branches by issuing diplomas from a younger specialist. This is wrong. This law, if we don't accept it today, it doesn't destroy the average education chain in Ukraine, technical education, it doesn't apply to it, it allows in most cases the corrupt activities of universities that have discovered their branches and printed diplomas for money, committing a great sin without providing quality education services to children whose parents buy these diplomas. So this bill is impossible to vote, it does not apply to secondary vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u89	Please turn on the microphone for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, regarding this bill, regarding the situation in the education system. It's just a course and a position to destroy the higher education institutions of the I-II level of accreditation under the nice slogans that there's total corruption. I must say, dear colleagues, I have three of these schools in the constituency. Then you go and see if there's corruption and who's learning and who they're preparing. And you and I agreed that we were on a committee that we would find an opportunity to keep this link, this segment of education going. But there's a steady course going on, and it's ruined. has been destroyed by traditional vocational and technical schools, and now this segment of education wants to be translated into a system of vocational education. If they even find a way to qualify for a bachelor's degree, would you tell me, dear colleague, if they could prepare their parents for a nurse or midwife for four years? These educational institutions have a huge social function, where not rich children are taught. So I would ask you, my dear fellows, not to engage in the talk, but to understand this education system and to make the decision to vote now at least as a basis for us to study the possibilities and then make the final decision. Otherwise this education system is going to be destroyed, and then we're going to take on the third-fourth-level accreditation system, and we're going to say that there's no less corruption. Not everyone is happy to learn outside of Ukraine. And believe me, we have beautiful institutions, we just have to see and support the positive, not tell them that everything is bad. This is no way for a country to live. All bad, we're the good guys here in the Supreme Council and we can't take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u91	Please give us a chance. Ah, you're done, aren't you? Thank you. So let's say Solovay 2 minutes. Please. I'll give it to you later, I'll give it to you. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u92	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, while the whole world is investing in education and the intelligence of the nation, it is clear that this is what many countries are involved in, unfortunately, that something in our country is being put on a secondary agenda and reformed by the Ministry of Education rather than by the Ministry of Education, but in the vast majority of Minfin. And we see what those reforms do when they're being implemented, not by the ministries, but when these reforms come out of Minfin. And the situation that today is in the vocational and technical chain of education, in secondary education, it's not just difficult, it's extremely difficult and balanced. If you ask a question today, how do you finance a vocational and technical education facility located in a village, in a district center, or in a district center? You won't find one answer to that question. Of course, I agree with the arguments of the previous speakers that this law clearly needs to be adopted. But let's say the other side of the coin is that this is a question, it's taken out of context, we need to look at the secondary education chain in the complex, we need to look at the issues of the Education Act and the Higher Education Act, and we want to do that one day in the parliament walls to make informed, normal decisions that will regulate the development of the education sector for many years to come. And what's important is that these issues need to be addressed, not by Minfin, but they need to come out of Minosvita, and these issues should be accompanied by a training committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u93	Thank you. And, colleagues, I will now give the floor to a representative of the committee, and then there will be a vote. That's why I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to let the deputies know what's about to happen, okay, I'll give you my word, I'll give you my word that there's going to be a vote. So first, Spiowakovsky two minutes, and then I'll give the Ministry a representative. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, do I accept Mr. Chizmar and Mr. Beresuk's arguments? Absolutely. But I want to point out that not an effective system of knee-breaking is a weak way, not an intellectual way. What's going on right now is look at how they broke the trade and said let's switch to the local budget, okay, there's no national policy. Now it's because you don't vote what happens? All the technicians, colleges will actually automatically go to CTU, and that means they'll be on the local budget as soon as next year. Will the local budget survive? No, it's not. This means that there will be a thoughtless, not systematic, chaotic closure of such an important education chain. What do our children say? Very simply, tens of thousands of our children respond to our conversations by going to Poland, Germany, and so forth. So we understand that if children answer our arguments in this way, it's a sick system, and that means we shouldn't go the way of breaking through the knee of this system. To that end, we have a government of profile that shapes this policy and strategy. Do we see that? No, that's why it's the way to closing down technivers and colleges, and automatically transferring them to vocational schools, that's the way to go. And we're all going to have to answer for what we're going to do with you, because these are hundreds of thousands of people behind us. So if we want to return human capital here to Ukraine, we have to fight for it, and we still have to give, if we've found somewhere time over these two years, that means we have to be able to work out these issues and figure out where the secondary education chain is going to be, in higher technology, or in basic technology. Thank you for your attention. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u95	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm sorry I haven't been there yet. There was not yet a representative of the Radical Party, one minute. All right, Barna, one minute, then the ministry one minute and we're going to the vote, please all come into the hall. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'd like the citizens of Ukraine to testify to our faction's position. The law that we are now considering is far from perfect and needs substantial work. But at the same time, we need to understand that in those educational institutions that are offered to regulate the activity of this law, children are taught mainly by orphans, from low-income families, children of non-smooth parents who cannot afford to pay huge costs for education either in Ukraine or abroad. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will support this bill in the first reading, provided that the second reading is thoroughly revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Barna, one minute. Barna will come out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u98	Dear friends! Christ Gets Baptized! In my district of 10 similar institutions -- colleges, technicians who do really professional training in both agricultural and industrial systems, including in accounting and legal matters. In Ukrainian education, there's a serious bone in the education chain, and it's the chains of younger specialists -- the serious bases, the serious frames that give good qualified specialists. So I ask you to support this bill in order to preserve this base. And those who are very keen on European standards, I ask and say, "Don't be hasty." Because Ukrainian pedagogics, Ukrainian education has very serious achievements that can be an example and an abundance for the whole community. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u99	Smoker, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, some may not have fully understood the significance of these changes. In short, in the current new law of 2017, colleges should either go to a system of vocational education, or some part of them should join universities and release bachelors or junior bachelors. This will lead us to actually have two thirds of our current colleges, and in the old days, these techniques will cease to exist. So to make some changes, do some preparatory work, and continue the release of younger experts. I think it's the right thing to do in today's conditions, and this will allow you to keep this line of vocational education basically: "younger specialist." So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u101	Thank you. So it's a closing statement from the Ministry. And in two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. And please, Kovtunec Vladimir Vitaliyovich, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The educational and professional level of a younger specialist has always been extremely highly valued in the labour market and is essential for our economy and our industry. In the context of high-tech manufacturing of the qualification of a skilled worker, a PTU graduate, there is no longer enough to work in modern manufacturing to qualify a younger specialist. And this qualification refers to a higher level of professionalism, but it refers to university education, not higher education. And now I want to refute a few of the statements that are being made here in support of this bill. First of all, the training system of a younger specialist was never by nature a higher education. They don't have science and teaching staff, they don't have regular teachers working there. There is no scientific activity. So it was decided to put everything in its place, as it should be. It's a high level of pre-university education, but it's not higher education. More than 70 colleges are now licensed to train bachelors, and they remain in higher education. The second statement to be rectified is that the system is being eliminated. The system works, the system is now funded by a full program, the prepared conditions for admission to the education and qualification level of the junior specialist separately from the reception conditions to the higher education institutions, the funding is provided by the full program. But. But I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Finance has proposed a budget for this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u103	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u104	suggested that this education system should be applied to the local level. We don't mind. The Ministry is now working on the development of the State Development Programme, the training of a junior specialist, and that will be the decision that this system should not only keep up, but also develop. We invite you to cooperate, and if you want to help us, take the decision to assign the government to accept such a state programme. Thank you for your attention. We're against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u105	I was convinced that this was an agreed position. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Who supports this bill 5240, I put it to a vote according to the committee's proposals as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:01:53]] For 172 Colleagues, second offer is the basis. On the ground, just on the ground. Who supports the bill on the basis of 5240, please vote. The one who supports the basis, please vote. [[12:02:18]] For 212 And last but not least, colleagues. Return to the committee for further work. I'd like everyone's support: to return to the committee for work. And I'm asking everyone around that proposal to settle down, it can unify the hall. Colleagues, please. I'm voting for a motion to return to the committee for the drafting of Law 5240. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:02:53]] For 218. Guys, I'll put it back on. Well, colleagues, a few votes, it's on a committee to work on, it's not a decision-making committee, it's not a decision-making committee, and in general, they're going to be able to work on it in terms of position. Please, Lord, one more vote, I'll put it again. Once again, my colleagues, my proposal, the last one, is the subject of a legislative initiative for pre-work, my colleague. The last sentence, if it is not supported, will be rejected. Thus, according to the Rules, the bill of Law 5240 was proposed to return the subject to the legislative initiative. Please support and please vote. Please vote, please support. [[12:03:50]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, I invite you to announce the message of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, before we all take a break with you, I would like to announce that on the occasion of the second anniversary of the fight to protect the Donetsk Airport today in the towers of the third floor of the Supreme Council for the promotion of the Committee on Veterans, Actors and Anti-Terrorist Operations and People with Disabilities, there is a photo exhibition of the defender of the cyborg Airport, Ruslan Borovic. And I invite all of us to attend this exhibition. There are more than 100 pictures of a man who, along with his colleagues, was at the airport protecting him. Welcome to the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u107	Thank you. So, my colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes to 12:35. And I ask that at 12:35 everyone return to the hall to continue our work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u108	Colleagues, break time is over. Please enter the hall, prepare for the continuation of our difficult but necessary work for the Father. Please come into the hall. So, honourable colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is also from the education and science bloc -- this is the draft of the Act amending Chapter XV of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine's Higher Education Act on the durations of the protection of thesis and the right to obtain a doctoral degree in philosophy (2316a). And there's a proposal from the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please. [[12:47:47]] Z-91 There is no political will to consider the reduced procedure, 90 votes, question. I invite you to report to Ukrainian National Deputy Scripnik Alexiyovich for a report on the draft Law 2316a. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u109	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. There's a lot of us in the room, so we have a good chance of adopting a law that we should have passed a year ago. The point is that when they passed the Higher Education Act, they didn't consider that its implementation would take much longer than expected. As a result, time constraints were imposed on transitional positions, in which neither authorities nor scientific institutions nor postgraduates could be placed. Graduates and Ph.D.s who completed their studies prior to the adoption of the Higher Education Act were obliged to protect the dissertation in one year. Since specialized councilors have low capacity, it has been virtually impossible to invest in one year. So there's a proposal that, in fact, we should have considered this law a year ago, increased the time of protection of the dissertation to four years, until September 2018. It's just to give a chance to make sure that those young scientists who wanted to protect the dissertation could actually do it in their old ways. And the new councils that are now in place and who have done the certification could already be preparing the doctors of philosophy. And we're also proposing instead of replacing graduate degrees with Ph.D.'s, we're offering them a status degree without replacing a diploma. By comparing the status of a specialist and a master. And because the Supreme Council has been looking at the bill for a long time, I ask you to file an appeal. The act of this law extends to persons whose dissertation took place before it became effective. Because we had to consider this law last summer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u110	Please remain on the rostrum. Please sign up for the interview. No questions asked to the reporter. Thank you, National Deputy Alexia Screepnik. I invite the head of the Committee on Science and Education of the People’s Deputy, Alexander Spiowakovsky, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a simple offer. When we look at what's going on, let's take this question down, because it's disrespect for education, it's disrespect for those people who are actually going to shape Ukraine's future. They see you and I forming a policy in the future. Now here's the next one. What I'm saying is that the first bill we've considered, 4783, and the second bill, 5240, and today's bill, which was reported by the Honourable Alexeiovich, 2316 -- all of these laws, the bills, more specifically, where did they come from? From that inadequacy that occurred two years ago when an unprepared, uncalculated decision was taken and the Higher Education Act was passed. Now you and I all have these consequences. Look, please, what kind of law is this? Has the conduct of the principal subjects of the educational space, the student, changed? He's a graduate student, and he's going. Did the teacher's behavior change? The main thing for him today is exercise. Has the behavior of universities changed? The higher education system is going to be ineffective, and it's going to stay. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you that if we're writing basic, very important fundamental laws, we should be responsible for them, not write them and accept them in haste from our knees and then cover them up for 2-3 years. That's not how the system works. To you: let's take this moment off, it's insane. We are now working on the basic Education Act. I don't think he's going to be soon, because we have to make him work for at least 20-25 years. Let us also respect ourselves as the Supreme Council, let us respect the Ukrainian people, and above all let us respect the young people who follow us and form Ukraine if we want Ukraine to be, indeed, an independent Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u112	Thank you. Stay where you are, please. You're a performer. Please come back to you. Is there a question for a coconspirator? Please. Please hold the recording.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u113	So I made it perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u114	No, there are questions. Please. People's MP Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u115	Solovay. You said something about what is being considered by the Committee of the Education Act, a basic law that you expect will be passed and will not work for a year, not for two, but will work for a long period of time. Tell me, please, when you can expect it in terms of time, because you can expect it in the district, and I think it's not just when you're communicating with education, but people know that the law adopted in the first reading is here, and that's the basic law that will regulate all processes. When an acceptance can be expected. consideration of this committee. A review of this bill on the committee, putting it on the floor? And yet I, what I said during my speech, I think that, in parallel with the consideration of the Education Act, we just need to look at all those norms that are contradictory, not developed in secondary education and higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u116	Thank you for asking. There's work going on in the task force. We're going to finish this job because we've got over a thousand rights to the bill that we adopted in the first reading. We plan to end up working in groups that have completely all the steakcholders involved, completely all the interested parties. By the end of March. In April, this project will be processed by a vote appropriate to the committee and by the end of April to submit the bill under the Supreme Council's dome for adoption. I just want to point out that there are issues that are very important and very controversial for all of us, this question of the 7th article on language, this discussion question about necessarily, I emphasize, necessarily 12ths, this discussional question that is about the structure of education in that part that concerns vocational education, that is, basic level, and higher vocational education, or that it's just vocational education.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Thank you for the report. And we're moving on to the discussion. Members of parliament are requested to record a discussion from the political factions. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the people's deputy Amelchenka of the Radical Party. There'll be no performance. Thank you. Then I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Kremen from the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u118	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I want to confirm that the faction of the People's Front political party will support this law, because it has, in addition to everything else, technical remedies that should balance with its rights as candidates of science and philosophy, that group of people introduced by the Ukrainian Higher Education Act in 2014. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the length of the deadlines for protecting the degree of scientific dissertation that our young scientists, who are also supposed to support today, are published in many of the world's publications that are rated for the National Academy of Sciences, which add prestige to the inventions that today use huge demand, so this is a huge step towards meeting our young people. And another important detail, this law is one of those that fully implements the principles and criteria of the Higher Education Act. So I'm talking to our colleagues, my colleagues from other political factions, to support this law both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Now we can discuss, national MPs who would like to take part in the discussion of non-fractional ones, including those who may join in the discussion. Please record for discussion. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u120	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Of course, the bill has a perfectly clear logic, it needs to be supported, it's a perfectly rational proposal. Unfortunately, this may not be enough votes, since many deputies are absent, but this law must be adopted. As to the overall situation in our education, we certainly need to pay serious attention to this issue, so this is the formation of our future, this is an investment in our future. And we realize that today there are a lot of problems in our education system, starting with schools, ending up in higher education. We realize that so many of the reforms that are taking place are actually formal reforms that do not bring about real changes in the education system that are just being done for a branch, in order to mechanically transfer some foreign experience to our soil, and it doesn't always work. Of course, there is a need for real reform of the education system, because now we see that a lot of people, for example, young Ukrainians go abroad to learn. And that, on the one hand, is the right thing to do, but on the other hand, it tells us that our, many of our educational institutions don't stand for real competition, and they need to give some impetus today to change so that they can actually educate and teach people so that they can compete and become successful in life. We realize that there's a huge problem with vocational education today, and there's a lot of talk about it, and we understand that it's absurd when we have a lot of lawyers, economists who can't find any jobs in a specialty. And labor specialties, which have enormous demand in the labor market, are now being seen trying to destroy the industry. We realize that all these matters must be taken seriously today. Of course, there are some positive developments in higher education, but they are taking place too slowly. We don't have time, we're in global competition now, we're not just talking about Ukrainian institutions anymore. They are already competing with educational institutions around the world. We need to create all the necessary conditions for this system to work effectively and thus we have seen the future of our nation and future generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u121	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Chernenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u122	The word to Deputy Frow.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u123	People's MP Froll.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u124	My dear colleagues will certainly support this bill as necessary, as one of the important issues of higher school activity and helps prepare young scientists, young people for higher school. But today we must also note that we have serious problems in the country with the implementation of the Higher Education Act. Two thirds of the necessary Kabmin regulations for this development have not been developed or approved today. for the implementation of this law. Today, there is a serious problem with braking the start of the work of the National Quality Agency. And this creates a whole range of serious problems for higher education institutions. Today, the issue of preparing younger bachelors is not settled. And we're voting today, I'm supporting the arguments of my colleague Lithuania, we're practically contributing to the further destruction of the necessary education chain. I think now is the time for a serious higher level of government to return to the question and further implementation of the Higher Education Act, to determine the necessary changes and deadlines, especially the deadlines for implementing these changes. Because if we don't, the total problem will only increase, and uncertainty will also contribute to the destruction of education. I urge you all to support this bill, but we need to address the issues of higher education in a comprehensive manner and promote the implementation of the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u125	Thank you. And we're moving on to the conclusion of the bill. Concluding words from the reporter and the coconspirator. Please. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexi Screepnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I want to address everyone in this room, because in fact this law had to be passed a year ago. We need to vote now, because it was a mistake to call again. So we just need to reconcile what we've done, correct our mistake. So I would very much ask all the faction leaders, all of whom can be invited to the hall right now, and we voted. This is a very simple change, which requires a large number of postgraduates who finish their dissertations. Let's correct our mistake and vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. Please come into the hall, we're preparing to make a decision. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Law amending Chapter XV of the Law on Higher Education on the Rights to Doctorate of Philosophy and the Right to Doctorate of Philosophy (No. 2316a) Colleagues, the Ministry of Education is still asking for it. Do we give the word or do we vote now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Lady, right? Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to the Deputy Minister of Education. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u128	Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Education and Science is asking for support for this bill. Moreover, we want to say that because of the slow introduction of the Higher Education Act in the absence of an educational quality agency, the rights of a certain category of academics are indeed being violated. And it's not just those who graduated early. These are the people who have completed the work on the dissertation, who are in the status of co-searcher at the cathedrals, at scientific institutions, and who have not been able to protect themselves. So we would even like to expand the list of categories that are entitled to the protection of the dissertation according to previous legislation. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m0.u129	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. I am voting on draft Law 2316a on the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Look, let me put it as a base, based on more support in the hall there is. Colleagues, please. You have all the cards, right? I'm proposing bill 2316a as a basis, colleagues. Just for the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:08:20]] For 184 Next offer. Return to the committee for further work, colleagues. I ask you to unite. The proposal is for the committee for further work, please vote for the committee for further work, please support and the committee for further work. [[13:08:55]] For 190 And the last suggestion is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote, please support. [[13:09:18]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Draft Law 2316a. Mr. Alexi, he's been turned down, but there's a possibility of bringing in a new one between the sessions, and that's why it's not a problem, because it's possible to bring in a second session under a new number. Law 2316a was rejected. Colleagues, I'm forced to conduct a rating vote now to determine whether the Supreme Council is capable of making a decision. As John Melniczuk suggested, I am conducting a rating vote, please participate in order to see if we are able to make decisions in the hall. If there aren't enough votes, I'll have to close the morning session. So please take part in the rating vote, please vote, colleagues, please. [[13:10:17]] For 206 1 – "against", 4 – "retained", together – 211 votes. Colleagues, I find a similar situation unacceptable. Like I said, we will. I ask that every faction be held on this matter of conversation, for the presence of the national MPs. On the Conciliation Council, everyone's asking for a lot of bills, we just can't accept them, but in order not to put at risk the bills that stand so as not to reject them, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At four o'clock we'll gather to continue our work. I have no right to cancel the evening session. So at four o'clock, I ask everyone to come to the hall so that we can continue our work under the Law of the Rules. Thank you.
