ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, pay attention! I don't see what's on the stand, but we agreed that we don't use the Supreme Council stands for posters, stands and other political agitation. All right, colleagues, right? I'm saying, I don't know what the level is. Colleagues! Colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its rostrum cannot be a platform for political agitation. There are many bills when we talked about both in the rostrum and put out those people who are in captivity, that could be discussed, but not for political discussion. From this rostrum come all the national deputies who are in the hall. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please. Colleagues ready for registration? I'm asking the people's deputies to register. Please. [[10:05:05]] 338 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, and today's birthday to the national deputy Sergio Ivanovich Melnik. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] And according to the 25th article of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. I want to make a point: Wednesday is not from factions, it's from people's deputies. So, colleagues, I would like to ask those who are willing to make a statement to prepare for the recording. There will be a record of the performances by the national MPs. Ready? Please record the performance. Please. Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich tells Ivchenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u2	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! At these moments, there is a court hearing against the government's infamous decision to set these tariffs, and there is the personal presence of the leader of the Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are now two concepts of land relations in Ukraine. Some want to sell land, allowing large agro-company that have access to cheap loans to corporateize their farms. Colleagues, the battle of Ukraine in monopolies, in electricity, in coal, in connection What do we want with you 20 families to have a monopoly on earth and dictate their terms and influence national security? And they had a particularly political impact on the development of the agricultural sector of Ukraine, a sector that today provides 17 billion currencies of Ukraine. "Paternality" against this development in Ukraine, for the development of family farming, we are for the development of small businesses in the country. Just think: out of the 6 million jobs that were once in the 1990s, there were 500,000. We didn't do anything to get one-man agriculture into the agricultural sector -- four-and-a-half million farms, nine million people. We have done nothing to give them State support and development opportunities even though you and I have passed the Family Farm Promotion Act. The priority of public policy should be to promote the development of such farms as Germany, Poland, where two and a half million family farmers produce more export products than we have 200 companies. We need you to support those who produce ready-made products and give them direct subsidies that export ready-made products. And most importantly, colleagues, we need you to understand that the future is in organic agriculture. And this is the future of Ukraine. No one today offers this route to Ukraine. Unfortunately, the coalition has no such ideas; what is proposed is distributed among large agro-companyes. And the last vote that the coalition failed to open the names of those who are currently extracting or possessing gas deposits, yesterday, you know, those votes didn't pass, shows that we or you are working on financial and industrial groups. We don't think for the development of the country, we think for the deep transformation of the APC, for the development of direct family farming and for the support of small businesses in the countryside. And we're asking you, colleagues, in no way to support the round that BP is offering, because it's going to be a global corporation. Think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u4	Think about it: One company is offered 33 percent of the land in its property in one area, we have 490 districts. Do you realize this is the way to nowhere? Dear colleagues, let's think with you about how to create jobs, not how to sell the last one that will allow the future of our country to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u5	Please, Sverk Grigory Aronovich. He's handing over the dove. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u6	Thank you. The image of power and, in general, of the state is formed by local authorities. However, some local authorities confused decentralization with the Russian narrative of the federalization and imagined themselves to be local princes. Local budgets, which had increased significantly as a result of successful decentralization reform, were to benefit communities, but in some cases they did not. And here you are, your respectable colleagues and distinguished voters, a brilliant example from my constituency. The city of Złotonosza, the city’s head, Mr. Wojciekhowski, is under the direction of this prince, actively embezzling public funds, three criminal cases, and this is only in the last two years. Why is it only worth "advance" (in paws) more than 30 million dollars in the last three weeks of December 2016. It's like a collector's reconstruction. Whether such things are possible without the coverage of the district government -- let's leave this question rhetorical. Today, it would seem that the third anniversary of our nation’s disposal of the Yanukovich regime is the same, but the methods of working on this vivid example remain the same in some places. The aunts who were to beat Ukrainian heroes in Maidan, the Party of Regions are the things that connect Janukovich and this panic. But most fearsome of all, respected colleagues, and respected Ukrainians, it is remarkable and notable that in the days of the Celestial Heros, this panch did not approach the monument of the Celestial 100th and placed no flowers. Maybe the fallen heroes in Maidan are not heroes to him, to this city's head, but these people are heroes to us with you, to all Ukrainians and to all Ukraine. And for this panic only Janukovic was, is and remains a teacher and a hero. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. The national MP, Saurasov, from Peter Prashenko's Block, gives the floor to her colleague, Mrs. Oksani Jurinec. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u8	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to invite the entire Lviv group here because the question will be the city of Lviv and specifically the center of Lviv. This is 17 Copernicus Street, today it's the Art Palace, and you're all familiar with it, because when you travel through the city, you come to a publishing forum. This structure, the building, has been owned by the Lviv District Council for more than 20 years. Today, the holding fund is filing a lawsuit. It turns out that there is no longer an existing USR artist community to claim this property. And today the Holding Fund wants to alienate this property from the territorial community, that is, the Lviv district, the Lviv district council. And do we understand why? Because the artist shop, which was in the center of Lviv, is no longer the artist shop and many other rooms. We, the People's Deputies of the People's Group today, want to address the President of Ukraine, and so do we, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and I am sure that this situation will be resolved properly. Because this property, which is now owned by the territorial community, where the meaning of not only Lviv, all of Ukraine and Europe is passing through and happening, cannot be incomprehensible to whom. You can't take away property like that today and do anything with it without asking this territorial community that's been investing for over 20 years that's been collecting the best measures that could celebrate Ukraine and Lviv. So we call on the head of the holding fund to pay attention. We will not allow this to happen to the MPs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u9	Please, from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. Please, Mrs. Alexandro.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u10	I'd like to say our speaker's favorite phrase: "Please invite him to the workplace." Because now that the MPs are speaking, they're speaking not only for the electorate, but for him to hear the factions that he doesn't really see the factions that are in opposition. He forgot how he was in opposition, because we're looking at you today, look at the order of the day, what questions we're considering. Is there any question that raises the MPs when they come out of this rostrum? Are they speaking from this rostrum today and considering the laws of tariffs? Do you have anyone who doesn't want you to be approached by voters with the question that it's begging, that it's genocide to the Ukrainian people? Please tell me, are we looking at the question of the reform (in parentheses, in coffeehouses) that Mrs. and the Ministry of Health are doing? Please tell us if we are considering the issues that have raised virtually all the opposition factions, the consequences and what the head of the National Bank is still preparing for us, which has already destroyed more than 120 banks, and now wants to take on a bank that will destroy our space sector. I want to say that there's a question and an enterprise development that our head of the Enterprise Development Committee talked about on the Conciliation Council, there's no system, we're taking anything, but there's no issues that create jobs. I also ask you to pay attention to all the deputies: the government is with us preparing a new pig-in-the-ball or whoever loves it as much as the cow-who-who-with-the-pig, but they're preparing their pension reform project. It will be too late to sit and talk with them, for they will do the majority again, buy, promise, and vote that you will not be able to go to the electorate. [[B in m in s a l in]] You should. There are suggestions, there are options that we can offer. And the last. I want to be heard by Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Avakov. Two days in Kharkiv, people with guns and camouflage, full-blown masks took over the Velmart shopping centre, Harkov, the Academy of Sciences, Pavlenko, Verevsky. [[B in m in s a l in]] Pavlova? I'm sorry, thank you. Pavlova. I've been writing it down. I'm asking you urgently, we finished this raid and thought it would end with Yanukovic. But, with respect to our state officials, I want to remind everyone, for example, that I am now showing in the Henprosecutor's Office the crimes committed against the Janukovich family's business, and I have it all written down: both raiding and burning restaurants in Odessa. Nothing, everyone will come back and your end will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u11	Thank you. The government of the Dove gives the word to his colleague Musak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u12	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainian Community! The Ukrainian has the right to purchase land in the United States, Britain, Spain, Austria, and elsewhere. The only country in which he has no right to buy land is Ukraine, his native Fatherland, for which his ancestors fought. Why is this injustice, and whose interests are protected by the State? This time. The other one. Article 41 of the Constitution guarantees ownership of three things: possession, use, and management. And the latter is deprived of the right to manage their land without Ukrainian citizens. That is why 55 national deputies submitted a motion to the Constitutional Court last week requiring the abolition of the moratorium on the purchase, sale of land as a restriction on the freedom and rights of citizens. There were some speakers yesterday. Yesterday, some speakers called these people compradors, mancures, salesmen. To be honest, I would very much like to believe that the person who said that was reading in the original of Genghis Aytmatov and his message, "And for a century, it's been going on for a day," where it was the first time that the definition of mancurrence was described. If you haven't read, I want to tell you, mancourt is a person who's memoryless and doesn't know his story. Thus, Ukraine’s history points to one thing: Most of the time, the Ukrainians had the right to govern their land freely. This right was taken from him just a hundred years ago, as was the story of the mancure, yes, the century, in 1917 by the Bolsheviks and the decree on the land. And because of that decree, in fact, the land was taken to the peasants. [[Noise Nodes]] The land was taken to the peasants, people moved from their buildings, and they went to Siberia. And you know, it wouldn't be a problem if those who talk about the moratorium actually believed it or offered some kind of market model, really some kind of model. Offer, say, a country where there is a country where there is a moratorium, then we may be a national holiday, a moratorium day. But the moratorium is now in Congo, Venezuela, Cuba, North Korea. You've actually been in Ukrainian politics for 10 years, and you haven't offered a literate, mutually beneficial concept, a model for the development of the Ukrainian market. In fact, all you can say is a moratorium and that's it. Develop your concept, say, show, and we will continue to discuss professionally. I offered my concept with my colleagues, and unfortunately you can only talk about the moratorium, about the village that's dying, it's been dying for 10 years -- you haven't changed anything. So you want to have a professional discussion -- let's get started, and you don't have to talk with slogans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the People's Front, Deputy Bondar is handing the word to his colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u14	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. I think it's just the lazy fellow who hasn't spoken the word "block" in the last three weeks. And indeed, now all of Ukraine, all of its citizens have drawn attention to what is currently happening on the line of separation with those processes that are actually related to blocking the supply of energy coal by Group "A", anthracite group, to Ukraine. The position of the People's Front faction is very simple. We believe that any trade in occupied areas should be halted, except for the critical imports that the Ukrainian State currently needs. We demand that the government develop a list of such goods and, in the future, completely block trade in occupied areas. Those critical imports, without which Ukraine cannot exist, should be placed from other countries, as the Yatzenuk government once did when we completely gave up Russian gas and bought it in Europe, when we started to import coal from South Africa, and we brought it in at a time when we had empty deposits on coal mines, and we brought it back from May. Because we have an interesting thing: we have a roadblock somewhere, and we have a roadblock for our own. Because once again half-Ukraine is talking about a blockade for some importers in the automotive gas market, when some importers are bringing gas, by the way, related to the oodous officials and the "private" former authorities, and some firms, honest, blocked BSO imports, as was the case with Kurchenk. That is why we demand that. Because it's a political problem for the state, and even a coalition of deputies are coming out of it because it's really unfair when some companies import gas, and other companies look like they've been doing some kind of follow-up action for months, and their wagons, their pushers are driving, and they're looking for something. So this is a problem that my colleagues and I are not the only ones to draw attention to. And we demand that the government find a solution to this problem, and imports of car gas into Ukraine have been demonized. Because now a corrupt monopoly is being created that will allow only selected companies to import this gas again, resulting in the overpayment of simple Ukrainians who have converted their car from expensive gasoline to cheap car propane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u15	Thank you, Oleg Medunice. And here's the word to the National Deputy Sergio Melniczuk. He gives the word Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u16	Vladimir Litwin, Žitomirščina, People's Party. Dear colleagues, when I examine what is happening, I conclude that we are a special country. We usually live a life other than our own; we usually live as enemies. You and I, dear colleagues, celebrate defeats and love the dead very much, and on certain dates. And at the same time, dear colleagues, we completely despise the living. We've talked to you about prices and tariffs, and we've forgotten. If we considered it necessary to make these tariffs fair, the rostrum would have been blocked long ago, and the decision would have been taken. Please tell me, how can people survive today when we talk about dying without providing basic medical care? What about a teacher in the village of Pritoravensk, the province of Zitomir, who has worked for half a century and is dying of disease today? What about the Chernobyl disaster liquidator, who was nine times in Chernobyl, there are no painkillers today? What can be said of parents whose children are not taken to schools, since today there is a conflict between united communities and district governments that do not give authority? What can I say to hundreds of thousands of people besides the thrashing that is constantly sounded in this Supreme Council? When you and I make a decision, am I primarily addressing a coalition that has taken responsibility for the country? You know, in Ukraine you haven't done a population census since 2001, although by all international definitions you have to do it at least once every 10 years. But now the black jokers are saying that let's take three more years to work this power at the head here with the majority, and the population census doesn't need to be done, we're going to have to make a roll call and get it over with. And finally one more moment, dear colleagues. I think we need to forbid ministers today to talk about reforms. When they don't know what to do, they start talking about reforms. And oblige them to take up the organization of life in the country. The country needs to breathe life. People feel they've been thrown away completely. Just go to the county one time, I'll say it first to those who've been following the lists. And I'm listening to these mossy people whirring about the earth, and I think they've dug at least a hundred of the earth. Finally. We're often called cattle here. The form is rude, the content is right, but I don't think we should insult the cattle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u17	Please, Vadim Ivchenko of Fatherland. Vadim Ivchenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't have a man named Scots in Parliament, so there's no one to tell. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u18	Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. Friends, there's a lively discussion, there's a lot of pressing issues, but let's take a look at the day's schedule on Wednesday, and it's getting bitter. I want to continue with the high temperature of the discussion and answer to a colleague who was very concerned about what we're blocking, we don't support yesterday's Earth Market Day. Dear colleagues, there are a few warnings before this question is raised at such an altitude. The first warning sounds like that. Friends, we need to learn to trade bread and then think about the land. There is no need to trade 40 million tons in external markets with raw materials, feats, and great intelligence. People don't trade raw materials; people trade grain, value added; millions of jobs are left in the country. We are the only country in the world that trades exclusively raw materials. Let us learn to trade what we grow from the earth, and then let us see what we can do about the earth. That's the first warning. Second warning. During the war, asset capitalization is falling, and it's clear that a country in a state of war and an aggressor is not going to stop, assets are dwindling, land, and above all. Today, Ukrainian land is 10 times cheaper than the analogue in the European Union. This is very well known, for the great regret of both the loan shark and the speculative and the corrupt. They're just waiting: let's open up the market. Third warning. Science clearly says, "It's not the trade in land, first of all, that it's necessary to capitalize the land." What Is Capitalization? In a simple language, a farmer goes to a bank and under his land, taking the world’s best loan for a long term. Thus, around 0.1 lands worldwide are traded each year, but 70 percent of the land is mortgaged. Show banks in Ukraine where the Ukrainian land can be set aside, at least one bank. And imagine, there's been a crash in about a hundred banks over the last year and a half, and if there was a land in a mortgage, millions of acres, where would that land be? Friends, and such warnings can be stooped and stooped. Neither the organization nor the personnel of the country today is ready for such a very resonant and very responsible reform. Show me who's going to do this reform, and I'll tell you what it's going to do. In 25 years of independence, there is no positive reform in Ukraine, beginning with privatization and completing public procurement. Isn't that a lesson for Ukraine? I'm surprised that our very combat journalist, Sergey Lechchenko, has not yet raised this subject. Anything. For all things, but for the earth he speaks nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u19	Please, Irina Suslova from the block. Irina Suslova. I'll give you a line, I've heard, but now Irina Suslov is speaking. After all the performances, Sergei. There's no Irina. Please, People's Deputy Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u20	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Good afternoon, distinguished viewers, distinguished colleagues! I want to raise one question that concerns the activities of our Security Service, because we have a strange situation: on the one hand, I think there's a decent Head of Service and there's all the other apparatus that we don't know which state works for. Yesterday, my assistant, Slav Goranin, was kidnapped. He was former commander of the White Moth, one of the leaders. With loud screams on all sides that it's an S.U.I., it's been dragged into a car, strangled there, threatened that "you have a little daughter that you have a wife." Then, because he exerted himself and it was very loud, and many people around it were, they consulted one another and released him. I don't think they're security officers, and I'm calling on the head of the service to conduct an investigation, because a statement has been made. In our opinion, this may have had a bearing on the planned provocations, because as one of the leaders of radical action in Maidan, he has the right reputation, he has the right trust in this society. And those measures that are to take place today and are to be planned in Kiev could also be artificially warm if something were to happen to him. Five and a half years before Vasil Sergiyovich Gretzak came into service, as far as I know, only four esbeušniks have been arrested for corruption, and these past and a half years have been 65. Here my colleagues rightly raised questions about the compressed gas, and my first MP’s appeal came another month and a half ago, when the cars stopped when companies that closed parts of their factories were trained, trained, and sent to the front. When companies that have been held since the first day in the same Poltava for the rehabilitation center of the wounded have been held back and have been the founders of the largest volunteer organization are then accused of being traitors only to clear the market for the arrival of a monopolistic company. And the steps are repeated one by one, as was the case with Chicken. So I want to thank you that after the head of the service directly intervened in this situation, there have been indeed changes and this week is already a positive one, already half the cargo has left and, I think, the service has already written under its pressure and the investigation that is being carried out there, as well as the Ministry of Economic Development, to cancel this shameful and lying order. I want to support my colleagues who said that we have a disgraceful agenda with you today. The law of "Yushmasch" (5113), which is supported by the majority in the hall, which is very much needed, it is not there, yesterday was, today we see a very empty agenda. The law that allows the Crushing to come out of this monopoly, the pressure, the checking organs of 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u21	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u22	That's why I'm calling on the faction leaders and parliamentary colleagues, non-faction MPs to ensure tomorrow's appearance. And I very much ask the Head of Parliament to put these bills forward tomorrow and to vote on them. Again, I request the ministry to conduct objective investigations within the ministry itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, next is the National MP Mishchenko. I remember the line after all the speakers. The last is the national MP Mishchenko, then one minute of Sergey Leschchenka's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u24	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th Kyiv County. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I want to pay attention to one problem that the MPs tried to solve yesterday, but unfortunately, it didn't work out, it didn't work out. This refers to the issue of land acquisition, where there are no master plans. I fully agree with those speakers yesterday who said that for the big cities, for Kiev, for the district centers, it's a corrupt component, and it's thanks to such bills that we can do everything we can to legitimize the tens of hundreds of hectares of land. But think about another problem, and I'll give you an example. There's a village near Kiev called Kuchakovo, it has a budget of 800 million, there's no excise, there's no VAT, there's nothing, there's a million 800. When they followed the general plan to the only monopoly institute in Kiev, they were awarded 8 million for the master plan. And at this time, the atolls who know that there is a free land in this village and they have 10 hundred to the wall, they come to ask for this land, they say no. Because, yes, by law, you have the right to land under 10 hundred; but under another law, you don't have that right until we buy the master plan for 8 million. And it's massively across the country in Ukraine. And I have a question of course, how many years does it take to not eat, not drink, not repair this plan? And another task, this problem: how many years will it take to get the atolls of the Borispil region and other parts of Ukraine? Now today I went to the Supreme Council, and there's a guy in the hold, too, from the ATO, but from the Carpathian, and he says, "Sergey Grigorovich, I didn't understand that law a little bit yesterday. I explained to him that those people who were opposed to this being in the cities, I agreed. But there is a rural area, and you will not, until the law that regulates this issue is passed, receive this land. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues, today there are these bills that solve this issue in the Supreme Council. But we can't give it to the attachés with one hand, and we can't give it to them with another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u25	The right of reply is given to Sergey Leschchenko, whose last name was mentioned by the speakers, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u26	Good afternoon! I support the indignation of colleagues about the market in compressed gas. What's been going on for the last three months is the disgrace in the eyes of the entire state, when the Ukrainian Security Service, on the one hand, is the Department of K, it's catching, you know, the corruptionist Julia Marushevski, who wrote off 500 dollars of the premium and on the other hand, blocking the entire Ukrainian gas industry, the whole import is actually stopped. 15-16 traders have been on the border for three months now. On the other hand, this is done by the Department of Economic Crimes of the Attorney-General, who has also been glorified in all of the work that Sus has been known to all, and who has acted in the same way in the direction of the President's Administration. And the last decision was that the Ministry of Economics imposed further sanctions. And all of this is done for one purpose: to create a monopoly, but not to tell whose. I'm telling you, the Medvedchuk monopoly. And it's a shame when the BSO and the Henprosecutors help Medvedchuk become a big player in the crease gas import market, and then they'll pay for it all because they're Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u27	Let me finish, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u28	Because it's the Ukrainian communities that use the compressed gas, they use it as fuel, they use it in balloons in the villages, but they're not going to pay the Ukrainian traders, they're going to pay Medvedchuku, who's known for having a godmother in the Kremlin, the same godfather who turned military aggression against Ukraine. And it's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches by the national deputies have been completed, and I am now taking the floor to the chairman, and we are moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. We have a traditional first question on Wednesday: ratification. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now and prepare for a decision. The first is to vote on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. And I'm going to put to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please. And I'm voting on the motion for a brief procedure for the draft Law on Ratification 0128, and I ask everyone to support it, colleagues. Please support us so that we can give full consideration to all issues of today’s day. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[10:41:29]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Justice Minister of Petuhov Sergey Igorevich. Sergey Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u31	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. This agreement was signed on behalf of Ukraine during a visit by the President of Ukraine to Malaysia on 4 August last year and aimed at resolving cooperation between Ukraine and Malaysia in criminal matters. The ratification of this treaty will allow for the cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, which are both central bodies for the purpose of this convention and their respectiveities in Malaysia. What regulates this covenant? This treaty regulates the issue of obtaining evidence, hearing witnesses, handing over court documents and other procedural documents, reviewing local objects, providing information and evidence, and thus allowing for better cooperation between Malaysia and Ukraine in investigating cross-border international cases, cross-border crimes committed in one country. Accordingly, I ask you to support the prescribed draft of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u32	Please give the floor for the report to the representative of the Foreign Affairs Committee of Svetlana Zalitschuk. Mrs. Svetlana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u33	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 8 February 2017, reviewed the President's draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on the basis and, in general, the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the treaty. Ratification of the treaty will enable effective cooperation between the courts and other competent authorities of both States in the process of providing mutual legal assistance in criminal investigations and confiscation of proceeds obtained by criminal means According to an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Justice, the implementation of the provisions of the treaty will be provided within the limits of the funds allocated to the State budget. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the bill. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign affairs and ratify the agreed agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Svetlana. Now, please sign in. Is there a need to discuss this ratification? Yes, there is a need to discuss. Sign up for factions, please two in favor, two in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u35	Please record: two in, two in. Please, Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u36	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, it is clear that ratifying similar agreements, where we work with law enforcement agencies in other countries, taking into account the number of fugitives from Ukraine who are delinquents, must be done. But we do not catch wrongdoers in our country today. I asked the National Anti-Corruption Bureau in January that the Ukrispirt State Enterprise purchased gas for a year for 2,000 dollars more than it was in the market, instead of 6,000 500 to 9,000 700. I got an answer from the deputy of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau that it's not a violation, they don't see it as a violation, and they'll take it into account in further work. On the question of what was held in September to replace the vacant posts of directors of state councils, they did not appoint directors for six months. I understand that this is corruption, too, but these enterprises are being privatized. So today, I would like to take this into account with my deputy's appeal from the Supreme Council and to look into systemic corruption in the Agrarian Industry Department's offices regarding activities like the Ukrispirt purchase of state-owned companies, state-owned concert gas, as well as the appointment of persons on the basis of competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u37	Colleagues, there will be a closing statement now, so I very much ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. Please welcome to the floor of Brenzowich Vasil Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u38	Give the word to Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports the ratification of the treaty. Colleagues, this document will force criminals who are hiding abroad from Ukrainian legislation to delete Malaysia from their map. It is known that it is the countries of South East Asia that often become a place of laundering the funds stolen from Ukraine and attract a lot of fugitives. A mutual legal aid agreement with Malaysia provides new mechanisms for the search and prosecution of serious crimes. We go through the force of the law, where every crime is punished regardless of where it is hidden. I also remind you that there is currently an investigation into the MN-17 disaster, and this treaty can give our law enforcement authorities new cooperation mechanisms. For Ukrainians, the issue of truth and punishment for this terrible crime against humanity still remains relevant, as similar agreements deepen Ukraine's cooperation with other nations, reinforce the role of Ukrainian legislation in the international arena, thereby protecting our citizens in every corner of the world. That's why the faction of Peter Dustenk will support the ratification of the treaty. And we urge our colleagues to also give their votes in favour. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I was asked by the authors to put me on a rating vote. I'll do it, but we still have to move on to making a decision. Please enter the Chamber. Please take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making, colleagues, please. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. All speaking, all factions support this ratification. I ask you to participate in the rating vote. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please support, please vote, rating vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[10:49:34]] For 213 Colleagues, let's invite some more deputies to the hall. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues. I'm asking you, colleagues, to invite the deputies into the hall, prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite MPs. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? I see all the factions are voting. Thus, discipline is needed when making decisions. Colleagues, take up your jobs. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! I'd like your support, colleagues. Take up jobs. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:51:23]] For 221 Five votes. As soon as the colleagues left the hall. Why don't you come to the hall? I'll wait a minute. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And I'm asking you to take your seats during the vote. Colleagues, these are the international commitments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hope all will be aware of the responsibility of voting. Colleagues, they just left the hall. Ready to vote? Please take up jobs. I'll be back. Every voice has a weight. Please take up jobs. And I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. I urge everyone to vote carefully. We're voting back on the ratification. Please vote. [[10:53:25]] For 232 We're back. I am now introducing a draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (0128) as a whole. At the suggestion of the committee, as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. The total vote is 0128. Vote. [[10:53:57]] For 233 233-yes. The law is passed. Decision taken, colleagues. The next one we have is a passing bill. This is the 0129 draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the Extradition of Offenders. I'm asking you to support the discussion. Colleagues, that's it. Perhaps we should immediately vote on it? No, it's not. Let's go first. Short-term procedure, report and vote. First of all, colleagues, for a reduced procedure, please support. Please be supportive. [[10:54:42]] For-200 200 for. Decision taken. The report is Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. Please, very briefly. Very concise, please, Sergey Igorovich. Everyone, please come into the hall. We'll make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u41	Good afternoon! This bill concerns the ratification of the Ukrainian Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the Extradition of Offenders or the so-called extradition. It provides for the conditions and order in which this procedure is to be carried out. Most importantly, there are now two Ukrainian citizens in Malaysia who are being tried for drug trafficking. And even though this treaty does not directly apply to them, but the condition for further negotiations, the conclusion of a potential treaty to transfer them to Ukraine after a conviction is the ratification of this treaty. Without this, the Malaysian side was not ready to discuss the fate of our citizens. Therefore, the ratification of this treaty has a specific application objective that is needed right now, because trials are ongoing in Malaysia, there are very serious penalties for these articles for Ukrainian citizens who are currently under investigation and court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? There is no desire to share in the discussion. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote and I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please invite the deputies into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 0129) on the proposal of the Committee to accept it as a whole. Please vote. Please support 0129 as a whole. Please vote, colleagues, vote, please support. [[10:57:01]] For 218. We're not in yet. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, take up jobs, 6 votes, or 8. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I ask you to invite the heads of factions, deputies to the hall. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Take up jobs. I would like to take the proposal to go back to the draft Law 0129. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, every voice has weight, please vote back to 0129, vote, colleagues, please support. [[10:58:09]] For 223 Three votes. Please come into the hall, take your jobs, colleagues. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Colleagues, so I'm asking you to prepare for the vote right now, take your jobs, please. And I'm proposing a return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Malaysian Government on the Extradition of Offenders. Please vote for the return. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:59:30.]] For 224 Colleagues, these are our international obligations. There's a problem with the system, we can't solve it now, we can put it to the vote again. I see. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to the draft Ratification Act 0129. Please, everyone, take your seats. I'd like to vote in favour of the return to draft Law 0129. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support, vote. Please be supportive. [[11:00:42]] For 230 I now put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 0129) proposed by the Committee as a whole. Colleagues, we make decisions, please be in the workplace and please support 0129 as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:01:21]] For 235 235-yes. Decision taken. We turn to the next question in the section "Ratification" is the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the EU programme "Competitiveness of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises", 0130. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. Please support the reduced procedure. [[11:01:57]] For 197 197 – yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u43	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! You are presented with a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the EU programme "Competitiveness of Small and Medium Business Enterprises, Programme (COSME) (2014-2020)". The agreement is aimed at joining Ukraine in the COSME programme, which will speed up the entry of Ukrainian enterprises into the EU market. Strengthening trade ties with European companies and involving foreign investment in Ukraine COSME is a set of thematic projects and programmes from 2014 to 2020 with a total budget of 2.3 billion euros. Ukraine's accession to COSME gives Ukrainian enterprises access to three components of the programme: the first is to improve market access conditions for businesses; the second, to improve regulatory conditions for businesses; and the third, to develop a culture of business management. Ukraine's participation in the COSME programme will allow for three selected components of the programme: 21.5 per cent of the programme budget to improve market access, 11.5 per cent of the budget to improve the conditions for competitiveness and 2.5 per cent of the budget to shape a culture of business. Given that the adoption of the bill will allow small and medium-sized businesses to invest in the EU's material resources for better preparation of the Ukrainian business for free trade with the EU, it will also contribute to improving the business environment and the development of small businesses in Ukraine. Please accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u44	Mr. Michael, thank you. Please, the word for the report shall be given to the head of the question committee. No, we have a reduced procedure, Mrs. Alexandro, we're good to go. It's okay. And please, Oksana Jurinec, from the Euro Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u45	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the EU programme "Competitiveness of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (COSME) (2014-2020)’. In our view, the ratification of the Treaty will create the legal basis for Ukraine's participation in the EU's "Competitiveness of Small and Medium Business Enterprises" programme, which will help improve the business environment and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine. The implementation of the contract will contribute to the development of a culture of business, contribute to small and medium-sized enterprises to improve their competitiveness, and provide access to a range of instruments financed by the COSME program. In particular, the intellectual property support service of the Internationalization of Small and Medium Business Enterprises Portal, etc., will contribute to new markets. The Committee believes that it is appropriate to ratify the said agreement, a decision that is consistent with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. Oh, Mrs. Alexandra Kugel was asking questions. Ms. Alexandro, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure, including your vote, so there are no questions now. But we're writing down factions for discussion. Please, I'm asking the factions to sign up for a discussion. Yuri Chizmar Mosiychuku, a national deputy, gives the floor. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u47	Dear Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Of course, the Radical Party faction supports the ratification of this. This document. It is as important as any relationship between Ukraine and the European Union and other neighbours who do not commit aggression against us. But I would like to pay attention in the context of this very determination of what is happening in our country. There is a group in Parliament, a Comprador group of people. I don't even know what to call them: Europeans, Europeans, Eurobalabols, Europeans who want to sell our native Ukrainian land. They were here talking about Cossacks, and I want another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u48	I'm asking you to talk. Dear Mr. Igor, please discuss the bill - ratification. Please, I ask you to come back to the discussion. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Mr. Igor! Parliamentary colleagues have asked me as chairman to comply with the rules of the Rules, which require discussion of the bill. The bill sounds like this. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have a sound. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not interrupting, I'm leading! I love opposition, and the Radical Party is my very favorite opposition. I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues! I was asked by the Ukrainian national deputies to follow the rules. Mr. Igor, please go back to discussing a bill that sounds like the "competitive ability of small and medium-sized businesses", ratification. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk's microphone, he'll be speaking according to the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u49	..and in context, I want to remind you. In addition to Cossacks, another page of Ukrainian history is Koljivščina, namely, Fear Koljivščina, Honorary. Because when they start pandering to the earth, when people appear. [[Noise Nodes]] who trade the land as a mother, then raises the Ukrainian people with pitchforks, with hair, and carves them out, carves out those who sell the land as a mother. And to those who speak of communism and want to sell Ukrainian land to foreigners, I want to say that you, just like you, have brought Communists here. Because you were involved, your predecessors, in the 18th-year conflict in Ukraine, changed power, fought, and then were responsible for millions of victims of hunger. You are now engaged in the mutual conquest and destruction of the Ukrainian state and nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u50	I'm going to give the floor to Alexia Dusty. And only, colleagues, are we discussing important ratification laws. Why raise political debates in the hall on matters that do not apply to those laws at all? We lose the chance to accept them during the discussion. I encourage the people's deputies to discuss the subject of the bill. I now give the floor to Aleksy Petrovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, your Honourable Chairman, I would still like to go back to the Rules without populism to discuss the law. The Peter Prashenko faction will certainly vote in favour of the ratification of this agreement. I believe that this agreement is a real opportunity for Ukrainian society, an opportunity to join the European Small and Medium Business Development Programme. It is this segment of entrepreneurship, not big industry, that is key in developed countries. Small and medium-sized businesses provide more than half of GDP and create up to 90 percent of jobs. In doing so, COSME not only facilitates the access of domestic entrepreneurs to the European market, but also offers a chance to develop partnerships with foreign counterparts. I would like to point out that the overall budget of the programme is over 2 billion euros, some of which can be involved for the creation and development of their own businesses for our fellow countrymen. Also, the COSME program plans to spend some 60 million euros on shaping a modern business culture in Ukraine. I think it's a very important bill that we need to adopt and bring together a hall around it now, not around some other populist thing. Thank you. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u52	Thank you. Colleagues, in a few minutes, there will be a decision. And please invite the deputies to the hall. And now I'm inviting Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u53	I'm 100 percent and the Fatherland faction will support the ratification of this agreement. Because I want to remind everyone what democracy is considered to be in Europe and in civilized countries. The country is considered democratic under conditions where small and medium-sized businesses are more than 70 percent. I want to remind the government, because every time a new government comes, you start with a clean paper, forgetting what the previous governments did. In 2009, we signed a Memorandum with Europe called "Think Small." All European countries have set the challenge of creating them every day to develop small and medium-sized businesses. Unfortunately, I'm paying attention to the Ministry of Economics, you're going to have a lot of financial grants, bills to write, you're going to have a loan program now, but it's all under a dress, it's closed, and a business that's not big and it's not in your office, it doesn't have information about these programs. We demand that all the information on the grants that executes them, so that we know who's pushing lobby bills here, all the information on small business credit aid is open. And we're going to bring our voters where we can look at it, but we're going to control that they don't go to Ukrainian commercial banks that are going to put the same loan rate they have in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u54	Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Now we're moving on to making a decision. One more minute from the non-faction, Chumak. And, colleagues, one minute to make a decision. Please invite everyone into the hall and come to the decision-making room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u55	I, my honourable colleagues, surely propose to uphold this important European integration law. But I want to talk about something else. I'm a very nice person, I don't have words for mancurves, salesmen, Eurorobalabols or anything else. And when I hear those words in the Ukrainian Parliament, I don't like them very much. Don't you like it, you know what it's about? Dear citizens of Ukraine, please simply do so and register the declarations of the electronic people who use these words. You'll find very interesting that there's, besides the power of saints under the bed, a million cash, half a million cash in people who haven't worked in business for a day. In dollars, in dollars, I say, millions of cash. A bunch of real estate in people who haven't worked in business for days. Do you think where they took them? You think they're so serious, they're so worried about selling the land? Because it's being sold today in a shadowy way. And because it's these people that provide a shadowy sale of land and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u56	Thank you. So let's move on to the decision-making process. We had a full discussion of the ratification project. It's probably one of the most important projects today, so I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and get ready to vote. So, colleagues, we can vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the EU programme "Competitiveness of Small and Medium Business Enterprises" (number 0130) proposed by the Committee as a whole. Please vote, please support. In general. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:16:22]] For 224 We'll have to go back, I see. I see you take your seats. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Do not leave the hall, colleagues, or enter the hall. Colleagues, stand by, please. So please concentrate. I propose to return to 0130: ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Union. Please vote for the return to 0130. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Every voice matters. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, return. [[11:17:22]] For 230 Decision taken. And now I'm putting the bill's ratification of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Union (0130) as a whole. Please vote, please support the total 0130 ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Union. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be careful, each voice has a weight. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:18:00]] For 226 Decision taken. The bill was passed, colleagues. Oleg Valeriyovich, I have a statement. We have another ratification, can we take a quick look at it and then take a break? Another final ratification, colleagues. The next one is 0131, this is the draft law on the amendment to the Protocol on Permanent Tourism to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians. Next bill in the agenda. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:18:46]] For 190 190-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Mikhailo Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u57	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian law on the amendment of the Protocol on Permanent Tourism to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathian Republic. The bill is designed to join Ukraine in the Protocol on Permanent Tourism to implement the provisions of the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of the Carpathians. During the 2011 Carpathian Convention, the Protocol on Permanent Tourism was incorporated into the Carpathian Convention during the Conference of the Parties. The Parties to the Protocol shall be: Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Romania The protocol took effect in 2013. Recognizing the importance of the principles of sustainable development for the Carpathian region and for the purpose of improving Carpathian prospects, preserving the natural, cultural heritage and exploiting its tourist potential, the adoption of the law will strengthen international tourism market positions and consolidate the common interests of the Carpathian region in the development of tourism, as well as the implementation of international investment programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, considering that the adoption of the bill will allow Ukraine to join the Permanent Tourism Protocol to the Carpathian Convention, I would like to point out that this year the UN General Assembly has also recognized the year of permanent tourism, the Ukrainian Tourism Year Order, the President's decree is signed. And the third one, the main one. That one of the priorities of the Ministry of Economics is to support tourism. So please accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u58	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on foreign affairs of Svetlana Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u59	Mr. Chairman, my dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, in its February 8th meeting, reviewed the relevant bill and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Adherence to the protocol will contribute to the development of rural and environmental tourism in the Carpathian region, the implementation of international programmes, the participation of foreign investment, the increase in tourism in Ukraine and the corresponding financial revenues to all levels of budgets. I would like to point out that Carpathian transport infrastructure is now in a state far from satisfactory, and no one has taken this matter seriously for decades. By applying the protocol, we, along with other countries in the Carpathian region, will finally be able to develop permanent tourism here. The environmental orientation of this document should be noted separately. According to an explanatory note to the bill, implementation will not require additional financial costs. The main scientific office also supports the bill and notes that it will have a positive impact on the continued development of tourism infrastructure. So, your honors, I'd like you to support this as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u60	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Pinzenik Victor. Please turn on the microphone, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u61	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u62	He's handing over the Jurassic, isn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! It is vital to ratify such an agreement. In fact, when we're all talking about the forest, the export of the forest and other problems of the circle, I can tell you that the Cherniewecka, the Ivano-Frankivsky, the Lvivsky, the Zakarpatsk region are the areas where Carpathian today is the main factor in determining how we can continue to move and coexist with our neighbours. "Europe Carpathian" is a forum that has been going on for many years, and in fact, it's a natural phenomenon that can unite us. And today the ratification of such agreements makes it impossible to exploit Ukraine as such. So I ask all the deputies who represent these mountain regions in particular to pay attention and ratify this agreement, where we will be equal to our colleagues in the European Union to understand that we have one rule and we live by one law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u64	Thank you. The wolf Viktor Ivanovich gives the word of Halasyuk for the performance. Please, Victor Ivanovich. He's handing over Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u65	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! This is about the constant development of Carpathian and with this state policy, we will soon have no Carpathian, because the government has, in a disgraceful way, introduced to Parliament a bill to abolish the moratorium on the exports of roundwood. It's a completely anti-government, compradorist initiative aimed at destroying Ukrainian ecology, destroying the Ukrainian economy to make Ukrainians work in Europe, unable to feed in their own country, it's totally unacceptable. You can't say with one hand what we're going to do to ensure the continued development of Carpathian, and with another hand we're going to make these Carpathians bald and naked, for no price abroad, selling the forest round. The moratorium that Oleg Ljashk and I have chosen in this Parliament with you, with our fellow Members, today works in favour of the Ukrainian economy, for the benefit of the Ukrainian industry, creates new jobs, hundreds of millions of additional investments have come to the country, and 17 percent of US dollars have increased in revenue to the state budget. A positive effect for a country that today wants to destroy compadres. We're not going to let this happen just like we're not going to have to sell Ukrainian land, because we don't have to sell land, we don't have to sell people as immigrants abroad, but we have to make ready production here, we're going to sell it, and then we're going to get rich, because it's Europe, it's the United States of America, it's Japan, all the normal countries are developing their production, so we don't have to trade the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u66	Thank you. A word for Saul’s speech is given, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u67	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. First of all, I want to support my previous speaking colleague Victor Halasyuk and say that not only the MPs who have been elected from the mountain settlements, but all the deputies, I'm sure, with the state's position in the Ukrainian Parliament, will never allow the moratorium to be lifted on the roundwood. And the second is about the bill. Dear colleagues, Ukraine has pearls -- Ukrainian Carpathians. It is such pearls that allow countries such as Austria, such as Insbruk, Germany, Bavaria, Low Tatras in Slovakia, or Buried in Poland to develop the economy of these countries and these countries. And Ukrainian Carpathians is also God-given land that allows us to develop very seriously forward and make one of the best tourist infrastructures. Bills like, by the way, the bill that we've been looking at before.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u68	Let me finish, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u69	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u70	Oh, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u71	This bill, as the previous one, allows for the very development of small and medium-sized businesses, which are the basis for the development of tourism in the mountains. I urge everyone to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u72	We haven't been able to sign up for a few groups and factions, please, John Krulco of Fatherland, then Sergey Melniczuk. Are there no more? And Sergei Kiral, from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u73	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland will support the ratification of this convention, but what this Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians should be aimed at, so that we can keep this unique legacy of Carpathians out of the woods uncontrollably in the Carpathians. Therefore, not the requirement to remove the moratorium to cut out the Carpathians, but the moratorium must be extended, the forest must be kept under clear control. And let European companies open up their forest processing products in Ukraine, produce production here, and we'll export this product to the countries of the European Union and to all the other countries that need it. This is what Carpathian’s protection and steady development mean. So Fatherland is going to vote on this convention, but at the same time, we're trying to keep the moratorium on deforestation from the Ukrainian Carpathians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u74	Please, Sergey Melniczuk, turn on the microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u75	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." The development of tourism in Zakarpat is actually, if you're taking Europe and Ukraine, it's our visit. But what do we see? Now, it's not just the woods that are being robbed, people are taking property, they're taking land, they're not taking it from the firm, it's personal. One of the cases I'm going to tell you right now. There's, for example, the Radical Party, I specifically say, parties, I call people, there's an assistant. She has a national deputy, Yuzkov Tetjana Leonidivna, and she has an assistant, who is at Zakarpatta, Minichev Sergey Vasilovich. So these people took it from Ukrainian citizens, not from the company -- from the citizens -- they took the tourist complex in Dragobrata, they ran it all through a commission that's in the right department, they went in there and they waved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u76	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u77	Says Russia's going to be here, Russia's going to be here. That's why I'm going to the DA's office, the Ukrainian Security Service, because it's pro-Russian. Russian should investigate and investigate the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u78	Please, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u79	Colleagues, every such ratification should be followed by implementation. We ratified the COSME today. And I want to remind you that a year and a half ago, we also ratified such beautiful European programs, called Horizon 2020, Creative Europe, which have not yet been implemented because of the lack of institutional capacity of the government. So these tools are actually not available to Ukrainian public organizations today, not to businesses. So I would like to encourage the government, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work on implementation, practical implementation of these tools. And the second. For five years, discussions have been held within the framework of the Carpathian Convention on the location of the convention secretariat in Lviv. The city council and the district council even offered facilities for this. I ask the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to step up its efforts in this direction so that the convention secretariat is located in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u80	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u81	Did they all come out of this bill, or did any other faction want to join in the discussion, your esteemed colleagues? They all came forward to discuss the bill. We have been joined by colleagues who also wish to vote in favour of this ratification. Dear colleagues, we invite everyone to the session room, because there will now be a vote on an extremely important law, a bill that includes the protection of Carpathians. This is a draft law to accede to the Protocol on Permanent Tourism to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians. We ask all our colleagues to take up jobs and go to the session room, there will be a vote now, your honorary colleagues. Please return to the session room. And now we're going to vote for that bill that will help and support tourism in the Carpathians and protect the forests there. Hence, the bill that unites the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall, take your places of work to make your decision. Please come into the hall, take your places of work to make your decision. Please invite all the national deputies to the hall. I remind you that this is a draft law on the amendment of the Protocol on Permanent Tourism to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of Carpathian (0131). This is a question supported by all political factions. And they all expressed their support. I ask you to come into the hall now and prepare for the decision. Please. Colleagues — Are All Ready to Make Decisions? I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. And we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act to accede to the Protocol on Permanent Tourism to the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of Carpathian (0131) on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Colleagues, every voice has weight. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, come into the hall. So, are your colleagues ready to vote? 0131, total. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support, we vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote, please support, colleagues. [[11:34:26]] For 239. The decision is taken, and the bill is passed. Colleagues, we've been through the whole ratification block. Now we have a draft regulation coming from the regulatory committee that repeals the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22 December 16 on the adoption of the entire Amnesty Act of Ukraine in 2016, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. According to the law, I have to make this ruling immediately after consideration by the regulatory committee. This is 4255-2, this is the ruling we received from the Regulatory Committee. And I, not including it in the agenda, have to immediately put it on the table. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u83	The Honourable Head, Honorary Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules discussed the draft Decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22 December 2016 on the adoption of the entire Amnesty Act "On Amnesty in 2016" taking into account the President's proposals, registered 4255, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Papiev Mihail Mikolaiovich, confirmed the relevant conclusion. I recall that the relevant draft law was considered by the Supreme Council, taking into account the veto and the President's proposals, by 226 votes in favour of the Ukrainian people's deputies. The National MP Papiev, the author of the decree, argued that his draft decision needed to be supported by a decision to annul the Supreme Council decision by violating article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee proposes to determine whether the draft decision is supported or not by a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Bondar Mikhailo. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u85	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Short. Just to reject this decision, to be able to sign the amnesty bill for our boys. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Babak Alona Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u87	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u88	Requesting all to vote against this decree. Thank the speaker that we are considering this decision, which allows us to unlock an important law. I remind you that this includes amnesty for those who protected this state but who ended up in its prisons. This law we passed last year, it was a very good, symbolic decision, it needs to be signed by the speaker and the president as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u89	Thank you, colleagues. Who else would like to take the floor? From nonfractional to word, Andrew Bielecki is invited. Please, two minutes to make the speech. Andrew Bielecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u90	Everything? I speak on behalf of a working and warring Ukraine, one of which you are destroying now and the other you are betraying. A bunch of millionaires and billionaires, many of whom are here, have actually usurped all power in the country. The president, the government, the majority of parliament belong to the same call. You represent our country in the international arena, even though the people did not authorize you to do so. And the thing about your hands is privatization and the sale of the country, it's the hunger of Ukrainians through tariffs, unemployment and poverty, it's the crawling, capitalization and surrender of the Kremlin. We, Ukrainian nationalists, are uniting our efforts to counter the armed occupation in the east and the financial dictatorship in the west, but above all, to destroy this power, which is mistakenly called "Ukrainen." Ukrainian! As statesmen, we demand a new political course that should be based on national interests. We will not allow the privatization of strategic ones, we will not allow the privatization of strategic enterprises, the sale of agricultural land, the quarterly rise in municipal prices. We're demanding a break-up of diplomatic relations with the RF. And in the end, we demand a real, effective mechanism of the President's impeachment and the recall of the deputies. We Ukrainian nationalists are united and determined as never before. And I promise you, if you do, you won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u91	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u92	We have the courage, believe me, and the strength, the determination to dissolve this Supreme Council. Believe me, we'll do it! [[B in m in s a l in]] We're here to start the struggle for power, so it's not Ukrainian anymore, it's Ukrainian. Glory to Ukraine! And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u93	Are you done? "Glory to Ukraine" has already been said, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u94	And the last. Have at least a conscience, fail this amendment, and honor those who have no weapons, no possibilities, and no legal capacity at all at that time. And now you're throwing them away, you want to leave them as petty thefts and throw them away for a pack of bullets and stuff like that. This bill is going to fail.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u95	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion of this decision is over and we are moving on to making a decision. So I'm stressing to you that a decree, in the event of a rejection, opens the way for the signing of the law. And so I'm putting the motion to a vote, and the committee has suggested that we decide on the draft by voting. And I'm proposing the first person to support this draft decision, please vote. Whoever supports this draft decision, please vote. [[11:42:48]] For-22. The decision is not made. Draft Decree 4255 was rejected. So the draft decision is rejected. Dear colleagues, we have received a statement from two factions and a faction agreeing to replace the pause from the rostrum, this is a faction of the Radical Party, and the Self-Help faction, two factions, and from them will act. Who? Oleg Valeriovich Lyszko, 3 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, let us be honest with you, there are many of us in this room who have citizenship except for Ukrainian citizenship and other citizenship. That's because the Constitution prohibits dual citizenship and there is no sanction for it, we have deputies here who, apart from Ukrainian citizenship, have Russian citizenship, have citizenship in other countries. We think that under the conditions of reflection of Russian aggression, it's totally unacceptable, and it's actually an enemy's job. We ask the Ukrainian Security Service to publish data on which Ukrainian national MPs regularly travel to Moscow, and to inform the society for which these Ukrainian national deputies travel under Russian aggression to Moscow. We ask the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General’s Office to file criminal cases against persons with double, triple, five - day citizenship, and we propose that sanctions be imposed. Today or tomorrow, I'm with my colleagues from the Radical Party, and I'm inviting colleagues from other factions to join in signing a bill that will assume responsibility for the presence of another than Ukrainian citizenship. We offer Ukrainian national deputies who have a different status than Ukrainian citizenship to deprive the Ukrainian National MP of his mandate. You want Russian citizenship, go to Russia and get the mandate of the State Duma or a short FSB agent. They don't sit here "fifth column" with Russian passports, drive to Moscow every week, get assignments and assignments. Then they come to the Ukrainian Parliament and implement these fairytale, Kremlin plans. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to join us, to support our initiative and to immediately consider in Parliament a bill depriving the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputies of persons who have other than Ukrainian citizenship. The same applies to civil servants and representatives of the public service, when a person enters the public service, hides the fantasy of another citizen’s presence, is to be released immediately from the civil service in Ukraine and is brought to criminal responsibility. We have to clear out of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian authorities the fifth column that works for the aggressor today. I demand that Parliament, the head of Parliament immediately consider this bill, and all who have other than Ukrainian citizenship must be removed from this House and from the Ukrainian authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I have a request from you, colleagues. Yes. We talked to the head of the Committee on Youth Policy. At our last meeting, he urged that we be able to vote and support the decisions concerning children and young ones. We have a day-to-day draft of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Child Rights in Ukraine: Security, Compliance, Protection." I think the whole room supports this decision, and I think we need to listen to the head of the committee, Arthur Leonidovich. Let's take a look at it and support it so it can be done. No objections? So let's go to Project 5523. I'm asking you to support her consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:47:49]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports of Palatno Arthur Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u98	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, you know, political strife today is tearing our state apart. There are many populist statements, there are many business statements. But we should not forget our children. Today domestic violence and many cases of domestic violence, especially in our country last year. Our committee proposes to adopt regulation 5523 as a basis and as a whole and to support our children, not by talking, but by taking concrete steps. I very much ask you to settle down and support this decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u99	Thank you. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please, colleagues. Please, Solowy Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u101	I'll have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, as our committee chairman has said, we really should vote today because there is no policy here. This decree should unite the entire room. This is where the main things are: it's our job to respect the rights and protection of children. In addition, we know that one of the key points of discussion is ensuring the right of children to health care. This is the main thing that should unite us today, we should think for our children and reject all political ambitions and vote unanimously. I think all factions should unanimously support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u103	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u104	Please pass the word to colleague Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, let's support this decision and vote in favour of the parliamentary hearing resolution that we held in November 2016 because the results clearly define the preservation of pediatrics in our country. It is mandatory to create government programs to protect and preserve the health of our nation’s children. The resolution also clearly defines the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to set up programmes that may be initiatives for local authorities to protect children’s rights. And especially the issue of child health. So let us vote in favour of this decree, and in addition, I want to draw the attention of the Head of Parliament, all of us national MPs, which is important not only to have the day-to-day review of regulations and approval and parliamentary hearings, but to look directly at and adopt the laws of Ukraine relating to the protection of the health system and including the protection of the health of children. So I ask you one more time, I appeal to Parliament’s head that in the daytime, there have been bills that relate to the adoption and change of the health system, which applies to both adults and children directly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u106	Thank you, dear colleague, for taking this matter into account and asking the secretariat to take this into account. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, not all of them have signed up, and now Krulko's national deputy wants to speak from Fatherland. John, please have your word, we're turning on the microphone, please, John Krulko, on the parliamentary hearing decision on "The right of the child in Ukraine," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u107	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the parliamentary hearings that took place in the Supreme Council on this subject must have been very informative. But at the same time, most important, when we think about how best to protect children's rights in Ukraine, we need to create conditions so that our children can have all the opportunities in the Ukrainian State. To get a decent education, to get a decent job after school, so that they can be motivated to stay in the Ukrainian state. This is what's most important when we talk about child protection. And finally, let's look at the question again, and how long do we have today all the conditions for young mothers, parents to want to have children in Ukraine? That's why we're acting as "Fatherland" to raise the standards that are given to young families at the birth of a child, that's what's going to be the real protection of children's rights in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u108	Thank you. Colleagues — Are They Still Desirable? Then I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall and the heads of the factions I ask to invite the deputies to the Hall. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please, colleagues, please come into the hall, take up jobs, prepare for making a decision, please. Please invite anyone else in the towers to the decision room. And I'm betting on the vote. Colleagues, every voice weighs, don't come out. I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The rights of the child in Ukraine: security, compliance, protection", on the committee's proposal, on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:54:50]] For 213 I see they haven't made it. Please, I'll wait a minute, come into the hall. Please enter the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. Please invite a colleague into the hall. This question, which unites the entire room, was insisted on by the chairman of the committee on the Conciliation Council, and there is no political debate on it. It is only important that everyone stays in the workplace and votes. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm making an offer. Ready to vote? Is everyone in the room? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft regulation 5523. Wait a minute, let them take their seats. Ready, yes. So we're voting back on draft regulation 5523. Please vote, please support me, colleagues, carefully every voice. Vote, colleagues, return to consideration. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:56:26]] For 224 Two votes. Colleagues, please. Come into the hall, my colleagues, I say they're not there. Please come in and take your seats. So, colleagues, please enter the workplace. Please, colleagues, take up jobs I propose to return to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The rights of the child in Ukraine: security, enforcement, protection" 5523. Please vote, please support the return to draft regulation 5523. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:57:36]] For 231 And I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The rights of the child in Ukraine: security, compliance, protection" (room 5523) for the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:58:15.]] For 231 231-yes. It's been decided. Thank you to the committee for your professional work. Thanks for the discussion, for making the decision. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, there are now 30 waves for recess. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30 we will continue our work, and I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work at 12:30. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Please come into the hall and prepare to continue our work. Please, colleagues, come to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Thank you, colleagues. So let's continue our work. The next one is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the status and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine. There are two thoughts about whether to consider it as a complete procedure or to consider it as a shortcut. The hall is to be determined. And I'm voting on the motion for a short-term motion for regulation 5540. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[12:43:10]] For 101 101. The hall has a firm position that it should be considered in full procedure. I can't go against the hall, against the national MPs. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy - (beginning - committee) - the head of the committee's responsibility. First Deputy to the Committee on Science and Education of Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! On November 16, 2016, there were parliamentary hearings on "The state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine". There were so many national deputies who had the opportunity to participate in the discussions, because the need for hearings was primarily due to the critical state of financial security for Ukraine's science and education, which did not meet the requirements of the current laws of Ukraine in the scientific and educational sphere, the modern requirements of European legislation. I want to say that the failure to comply with Ukrainian legislation on the education sector, especially with regard to the vocational and technical education that you and I have passed on to the local budget, has led to the closure of educational institutions and their destruction, the deterioration of financial conditions and the quality of education. The Law on the provision of textbooks, food, and school buses is not properly implemented. Dear colleagues, this is a disgraceful attitude toward the future of our country. Now it's about science. A total of 0.18 percent of GDP in 2016 was budgeted for scientific research, which is nearly 10 times lower than that of the Ukrainian Science, Science and Technology Act, which we once again adopted with you in this room. What does that mean? This means that we are laying the groundwork for the aging of the National Academy of Sciences, of the National Academy of Sciences. And young people who do not see access to appropriate academic and administrative positions are sadly leaving the country. At the expense of the funds and grants given to our talented youth, she leaves the country forever, creating startups, creating new knowledge in other countries. Unfortunately, you and I, without having a clear, clear strategy for science and education, are creating a basis for our own efforts so that we do not have a future. The budgetary policy of the state does not ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Higher Education Act 2014-2015, which has also been adopted under the terms patriotic, and on Scientific and Technological Activities. There is simply a question of why adopt laws that are then re-examined in December by the relevant Budget and Budget Laws? Such a state of affairs creates irreversible destructive processes in education and science. And by the way, the number of national MPs who are listening to all of this today and who are voting now also corresponds to our view of what we want from Ukraine's future. In the situation that has arisen, the question is already raised about the preservation of national systems of education and science, schools of science. To talk about the conservation, maintenance and development of the education and science system without a clear vision of the financing of education at least 7 percent of GDP, and science at 1.7 percent of GDP is unrealistic. Dear colleagues, we cannot say that we have an inefficient system if we do not provide it with adequate financial resources. This is very important to understand: if you have a disease and, for example, have a problem with your hand, it does not mean that we should cut it off, we should make the right hand effective. And we're going the easy way: we're cutting off everything that's ineffective. All of this will be with you in 7-8 years, when all of Ukraine's young people will be looking for a beautiful fate abroad. As a result of the discussions at the hearings and on the financing of education and science, the Committee has generalised all proposals by participants and has worked out a number of concrete ways to address it in the context of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. The corresponding proposals have been reflected in that project that we are now proposing to accept. Unfortunately, by the number of national deputies, I think the decision will be broken, but it will be on the conscience of those who have not come to vote today. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on 6 December 2016 discussed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "On the Status and Problems of Financing for Education and Science of Ukraine" and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, despite some discussion points, to adopt a draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "On the Status and Problems of Financing for Education and Science of Ukraine" in the first reading and to adopt, as a basis and as a whole. Five deputies out of five voted for it. Dear colleagues, think about what Ukraine is about in the future. Ukraine's future is our children who are studying at school today, and they are our students who have to create a new innovation economy. And that's why this decision is actually a hub for society, which is what we want to do in our Ukraine for the development of educational space, for the purpose of ensuring the scientific and innovative development of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u111	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Alexander Volodymyrovich remains on the rostrum. Please hold the recording. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Ryabchin's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u113	The Fatherland faction, Alexei Rybchin, Doñecina. We were present at these hearings and, in fact, the atmosphere in the hall was fantastic, when in these places where so many fellow members of the national MPs are now sitting, there were educators, professors, assistants, that is, there was a lot of energy going on. And I want to express my gratitude to the committee for having these hearings, to acquit my colleagues for voting, but to stop at the question of moved higher education institutions. Last year we voted on two very important laws. The first permit for thousands of children from the occupied Donetsk and Luhansk are now studying in the Ukrainian universities. And this, really, when we fight for the hearts and minds of people, it's really our common victory. And the second is the status of transferred higher education institutions. We remember how the rectors and teachers of the transferred higher educational institutions were here in our rostrum when the law was passed. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u114	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u115	We've done a lot of useful things. However, we urge the committee to prepare a new bill that will help displaced higher education institutions in Donbas and Crimea and develop our Ukrainian education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u116	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Alexia, for asking. I also want to add the third law of Mustafa Nayem, Irina Heratchenko, which we have also adopted and which gives the proper powers to the Cabinet of Ministers to settle these issues. Today there will be another bill, a very important one, and we will ask him to support the establishment of a quota for thousands of people who complete the Crimean secondary educational institutions to enter the results of the examinations into the higher educational institutions of Zaporozky, Herson, Mikolai and Odessa. We have to return human capital to Ukraine. It's a powerful tool in fighting an aggressor. People and only humans will determine Ukraine’s victory in this war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Slippery Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u119	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to address you and say that I treat you with great respect as a well-meaning word of "lobby" for education and Ukrainian patriot in education. I'd like to ask you how do you think the Ministry of Education and Science today should do primarily to stop the terrible brain drain abroad? That's the first question. And the second question. When do you think the Ministry will finally decide that scientists and scientists will assign special councils to scientists at universities rather than wait for a decision to be made at the WAC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u120	Thank you. Thanks for asking. As far as the outflow is concerned, it's about migration. Today, by the way, on the Committee on Education and Science, where there will be 250 educated today, the second issue will be the question of managing the human capital in the example of the Herson district, where the head of the Herson State Administration of the Gordons will represent the situation. It's in the section of the Herson region that we're going to see the stagnation of human capital, we're going to see what goes first, and the basis for that is the situation of teaching specialities, where, for example, in the Herson region, we have 245 vacancies per teacher, and 1 thousand and 147 people working as teachers, already in retirement. And this is the first question that we have to solve in order to bring back the fundamental context of secondary education. As for the second question, is this? Acquisition of names. Dear colleagues, this question is resolved, it should appear and work for the National Agency with the quality of higher education just as it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u121	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u122	The appropriate proposals to the Ministry of Profiles and to the Cabinet to confirm this order and we resolve this issue. I'm also in favour of this, but the creation of specialized scientific councils has to go under very strict control in order for there to be no fairy-scientific specialized councils after that -- it's very important, then you can hand over the appropriate powers to these specialized scientific councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, Macola Roman Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Shinkovich Andrija Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear Ukrainians! In 2017, two budgets are used to pay workers in vocational schools – this is clear and well-known. Yeah? From education subsidies and from local budgets. But because of the lack of a clear list of pedagogical positions that can be financed by the cost of education subsidies, given the situation, there was a deficit in the Hmelnicki district of the area budget for the payment of wages of 27 million dollars and the surplus of the educational subsidy of 30 million dollars. It is therefore requested that teachers be included in the list of teaching positions financed by educational subsidies, not only by teachers of general education, but also by directors, substitutes, Methodists, educators, practical psychologists, social educators and others, to balance local funds and educational subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u126	Thank you. I want to answer this right now, this is the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. So the Ministry of Profiles can make these changes to the list and then settle this issue so that there's no imbalance between the state and the cost of the local budget. But what I'm saying right now is, I don't really understand how hybrid funding can happen when a part of the group receives funds from the state, and a part from the local budgets. I think it's going to create these kind of artificial conflicts, but the proposal is perfectly normal and, I think the Department of Profiles will be able to solve this issue at the next cabinet meeting of the Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u127	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Question time is complete. Thank you. Then there'll be a closing word. Now we have a section of factions and groups. Who are willing to share in discussions, factions, and groups? Please record the performance. Please record. Then there will be a record of the National Deputies and will be able to speak later from the National Deputies, please. Korchinska Oksana, turn on the microphone. Oh, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u128	Praise Jesus Christ! I have a big request on behalf of our families who died in the war. The second year, as is the conflict between the two laws, one of them is under the authority of our former colleague, currently Minister of Education, Mrs. Lilia Greenevich. And by article 15 of the Law on Social Legal Protection, Protection of Military Servants. The law, which is fundamental to social protection, the legal protection of military personnel, states that all the children of our dead heroes in the war who died in the protection of the Fatherland must enter the middle, special and higher schools for the competition, outside the competition, once again, outside the competition. Unfortunately, because of the law that was passed in early 2016, where there was an article on fostering children from occupied areas, displaced persons, and including the children of those who died fighting, there was only promotion. In manual mode, it takes a second year to fight for every child when entering higher education institutions and middle school institutions, the children of our heroes. It can't be, I'm asking the committee to do a separate hearing, a working group, to regulate legislation, of course, for the benefit of our children who died in the war. There can be no such thing as having to be accompanied every time by national deputies and volunteers. Please take this into account in parliamentary hearings, and this is a matter for consideration in the near future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u129	From Peter Prashenko's Block of Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please turn on the microphone. Shinkovic, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u130	I'm with your permission, Your Honor, I'd like to draw your attention, I think this is a matter of general concern to all education reforms. Sadly, though, today, as we do in health care, we see the need for these reforms, not once, but today. This is a very principled position, not to close schools, but to preserve them. It's a very principled position not to frighten people with hard schools, it's very wise, it's necessary. And we support the Ministry in support of the schools, but reform and any change must come for change, there must be inheritance. Three schools were closed in my district today. The children are now on September 1, and the school will no longer be opened. It's a very important thing. And the primary school is our basic position of many majors, especially the pilgrims, I know for a fact, the primary school should be in everyone. On each village council, how a six - year - old child can be driven 20 miles [20 km] to a neighboring village. Tell me, what roads do we have? Do we have a school bus that meets our standards, especially in winter? Do we have so - called dormitories if there is too much road and children can spend the night? Are we feeding these children? If the parents in their village have eaten their food and fed their children in their school, will they take them to the neighboring village, these foods? We didn't provide them with food for all the classes. Sadly, they were restricted. So, dear friends, let's start with the reform and think about the child, think about the teacher, think about how it's comfortable for them to get the knowledge, and then, of course, you can break it. But you can't break it, and then, unfortunately, you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u131	Thank you. From the will of the people, Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! The system of education and science is clear evidence of a huge gap between expectations, expectations, and reality. I have to tell you, when I hear the groanings here of my esteemed colleagues speaking out of the closing of schools. I have a question, and what decision have you made? Bill 5130, you've turned everything into local budgets, and now you're crying and you're talking about closing schools. And they're going to be shut down because they've put community service funding into the local budget, the salaries of the auxiliary and technical staff. There are areas that can withstand this load, and there are no other possibilities. And then they're just counting what they have to do to get enough money and they're closing not a lot of schools now, but they're choosing one where, let's say, 70-80-90 students and they don't want to talk to anyone. Clearly, this decision must be made. I don't see the potential right now to vote. But notice, the system of vocational education was destroyed, destroyed here in the session hall. They passed the Law on Science and Technology, it's not being implemented at all, the system of science in Ukraine is ultimately seeking, especially the decision to raise minimum wages. Now in scientific institutions, to raise the minimum wage to 3,000 200, you have to reduce a third, as a minimum, of scientific workers, and that's a huge problem. Next, the Higher Schools Act was passed; in fact, the matter was not further done. Because there is no adequate funding, but a huge number of upgrades have been declared. And now, in the Ministry of Education and Science system, there is a struggle for authorization. And one more moment, respectable colleagues, the system of colleges and technicians. Also, the decisions you voted before the budget was adopted, you actually transferred these institutions to the vocational education level. We need a separate subject to talk about what's going on in the education and science system. We should think and speak with responsibility about the future of Ukraine. In fact, the future of Ukraine has been destroyed. I'm going to say so vaguely about the branch of the Academy of Sciences. By the decisions you made, you killed them, including the Academy of Medical Sciences. Notice that they are virtually out of work. People are sent on forced vacations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u133	Thank you. From "Fatherland" Rybchin Alexei gives the word to John Kirilenko. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u134	Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland. Andry Volodymyrovich, Andry Volodymyrovich, I will have to address you personally, not the hall. You're meeting with many world leaders now as one of the leaders of the state. I am convinced that the conversation is about many of the issues that concern Ukraine today, society, Russia's aggression, the issues that concern our future times, future generations. Andrija Volodymyrovich, there is no doubt that the talk is about the leading European countries and not only European countries, but also the world as a whole, investing in the most expensive capital that is on the planet today: the human capital. This is thought to be the best investment. So according to the human development index of Ukraine's investment in this human capital is the lowest in the world. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I sign off on what my previous speaking colleague, Vladimir Litwin, said. We're at every committee meeting, the intelligence of the Supreme Council is working on how to fix this situation. We're introducing bills here, passing laws on science and science and technology, on the turn of the breakthrough reform laws on education. In the opposite room, everything is done exactly the opposite: they didn't get to adopt the law, where, standing there, the hall applauded, "About science and science and technology," the next day, the finance minister on the stand crossed everything out, multiplied by zero, what was voted here. And this practice continues. Andriy Volodymyrovich, not just the rest of the principle -- they cut it off together, but on the spot -- make a decision. What do you want to decide? What local budget can bring about today’s vocational education, municipal payments? Lithuania's right that the system of professional education has been destroyed. The secondary special education system, as it used to be called, is being destroyed. The people answer with their feet: young people leave the country, go to the countries of the European Union to get an education and stay there. What are we working on, for what future? I'm only asking you. Now there's a committee meeting, 400 people will come from places to tell about all the troubles in science, in education. A voice screaming in the desert! Andriy Volodymyrovich, as one of the leaders of the state, take this area personally, otherwise there will be no matter. Come to the committee today, listen to what people are saying. Let's take this room, which is capable of doing everything in order to make it a future, let's take it to a higher level, not just a discussion, but a decision-making and monitoring of implementation. I think you can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u135	Thank you. From "The People's Front" to "The People's Front" Maxim Burbak is invited to the floor. He's giving Taras the Kremen a word for the performance. Mr. Taras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u136	Taras Kremen, People's Front. We are our faction, probably the majority in this session hall, supporting the reform of the Ministry of Education and Science. But he needs our support more than ever, including in the form of financial support for the development of our education, the provision of scientific research activities, the activities of front-line education institutions, the decision to provide educational services to children who are about to enter higher education institutions. This is financial support for higher education institutions in the south, west, central Ukraine, and lack adequate funding and support. I want to say from my point of view that today’s level of education does not satisfy our needs. In fact, the 2017 budget lacks 3 billion dollars to go to financial support for higher education institutions. Local budgets lack the funding needed to provide financial resources for vocational education institutions. Today, there is a lack of funding to provide quality education services to specialized educational institutions. And in this sense, I would like to stress the exclusion of the importance of military educational institutions, and I would like to emphasize the importance of providing inclusive education or special needs. In this sense, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring the full scope of the National Academy of Sciences and Industry. They're all on the cutting edge, all of them helping all the resources available to rebuild, to build our economy. They are willing to endure today, but they are willing to receive words from us. Last year, you remember how many rallies there were, how many meetings there were, how many meetings there were with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of the National Academy of Sciences, the leaders of the sectoral academic communities, the representatives of Parliament. Last year, the financial security of education was probably the hottest. And that's what they talked about, including the trades. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support the draft decision on supporting parliamentary hearings on financial education in Ukraine and to make every effort, during the review of the 2017 budget, to increase the numbering of individual articles that will allow our education to help our ministry and Minister Lilia Grinevich reform one of the most important sectors of the Ukrainian state. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u137	Thank you. Colleagues, have all factions and groups been able to make decisions? I don't see the wanters anymore. Dear colleagues, we're going through a full procedure, so we're now recording a discussion from the Ukrainian national deputies. I'm asking you to sign up. Oleg Lazko, please give your speech. Please, Mrs. Kocheljeva. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't hear a colleague. Now Oleg Lazko and then Igor Mosiyczuk. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think there must be a very simple truth for everyone: we want to be competitive, modern, mobile in today's global world, the key is education and health. That's why government policy and government spending and all the possibilities should be focused on that. What do we have instead? The government, today’s Comprador authorities, is conducting so - called reforms that deny Ukrainians access to medicine and education. People, especially in the villages where the FAPs, the infirmary, the schools, they can't get to the center, they can't go to the district center to have a baby 200 kilometers away. Is that what the future holds for our country? No, it's not. This is a strategy aimed at the extermination of the Ukrainian nation. According to the United Nations, 30 million Ukrainians may remain in Ukraine by 2050 and others may die or die as we take our first place in the world today at the level of disease and death from cardiovascular diseases, or they will leave our blessed land. How do I change this trend? How can we stop this catastrophe? How Can I Save the Country? Which one of you, who's in power today, who of you can say what's going to happen to our country 50 years from now, 100 years from now, 200 years from now? Which one of you is this far away? Nobody. You are unable to appoint a health minister, and we are talking about medical reforms. All your reforms are about shutting down hospitals, schools, and everything else that should serve Ukrainian citizens and give them a future. You can't see tomorrow because you're only worried about today, staying in power and stuffing your pockets. You don't see, we see, our team sees, we know we need the country today and tomorrow, and 50 and 100 years later. Ukrainian land should be at the disposal of Ukrainians, all the resources of the states should be directed to education of Ukrainians, to science, to new technologies, to intelligence, to support a national producer instead of a "banana republic", to jobs and wages for Ukrainians instead of beggars. This policy is only capable of giving the country a future. That policy you're pursuing is a policy of failure!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u139	I remind you, we are discussing a draft decree, honourable colleagues, so far not about the land, but about the state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine. And now for the word, please, Igor Mosiychuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! An extremely important question raised at the hearings concerning the state of Ukrainian education and science is now being considered in the semi-empty room. I want the entire Ukrainian people to know that in the morning, the Kremlin opposition bloc probably fled to Firtash to Vienna, there is no man, no man, no education, no science, nothing. So when we talk about the future of Ukrainian education and Ukrainian science, we talk about the future of the Ukrainian nation, about our prospects in both Ukraine and the world. It is now observed that the authorities are involved in those who really want to shut down, destroy, reduce, squeeze both education and science. Let's look at the shortenings that are predicted, the exact sciences, what does that lead to? And that definitely leads to the debacle of the nation. It turns out that those who see our country now as a raw material need more than scientists, not intellectuals, but people who need to do physical work. As far as science is concerned, there is a much more tragic situation: Ukrainian science is being destroyed, it is being deliberately destroyed again for the sole purpose of having our country and our land as a raw supplement, where they will extract the nadra, where they will grow something, but will not process anything, there will be no advanced technology, there will be nothing. One example is that medical institutions, leading medical institutions in the country like Shalimov, Amos, are now on the verge of being destroyed, because funding for everything is between 40 and 50 percent. People are doing unique operations there, and unfortunately, the state is destroying these facilities. So if we want to talk and talk about the perspective of Ukrainian education and science, we have to say that this is a priority, a priority for the nation and the state. Unfortunately, seeing the number of colleagues in this room right now, I realize that their priorities are different and probably not within Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solovay, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u142	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. This is my colleague who spoke to me about priorities, and I want you to look, when we speak, at the performances of the leaders of all factions. And about the priorities that the leaders of these factions define, we'll hear about the blockade, about the tariffs, about the land, about corruption, but in any of the factions leaders here on this platform, there's never any emphasis on education. And to my deep conviction, education, my fellow students, that's number one priority. The fight for intelligence in today’s global and competitive world is a struggle for the future of every nation. When we speak, why do the United States develop, and why do they have the best indicators? But it's very simple because the concentration of the better people from around the world in the United States is the largest. And only those countries have a chance to develop that think about their education, about the intelligence of the nation, and, very little, think about how this intelligence of the nation can be preserved in this country. Please tell me whether it would be appropriate to maintain the mechanism for appointing foreigners as heads of state enterprises or ministries? What are we demonstrating? I want to point out, we're demonstrating that in the Ukrainian State, 45 million, there's no Ukrainian who could lead the Crucifixion, the Ukravutododor, or, as before, the State Department or the Ministry. I think this is where we have to start, if we want to leave the best Ukrainians in the state and develop the intelligence of the nation, we should, Parliament and Government, invite better Ukrainians from around the world. And this will be a better signal with the support of the Ukrainian nation and Ukrainian intelligence. We should not question blockades, tariffs, corruption, or land to look at and accuse each other. And we have to start and finish with the education issues of Ukraine. And this will be the path that will allow Ukraine to move forward. I support the recommendations of parliamentary hearings, but at the same time, I think we should, at least one day in the near future, give education status in Ukraine, starting with pre-school, secondary education and completing higher education. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u143	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u144	Moreover, I want to say that, unfortunately, all the reforms in our country tend to reduce funding, we also have to invest in something. And I think that the education sector should become the sector in which Ukraine will start investing, not all reforms will reduce expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u145	Thank you. And now the word is given to the people's representative of Lensky, please. Lensky, thank you, of course, has already presented his position. National deputy Yvchenko gives the word Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Do I want to get a few digits? What is the financing of academic, medical, educational, and medical institutions? This year’s Amos Institute is budgeted for staff, 27 percent. Communicating 25 percent of the previous year. Funding is six percent. Do you understand what you voted for in the budget? Do you understand how this will end for the country? On the other hand, yesterday a masterminister's office decides on hundreds of millions of dollars to create cardiocenters in every district center. They don't know that these cardiocenters exist in every district center that's been built on the basis of basically fourth-office hospitals that we can't do here for 25 years. Don't you know they exist? So you're taking into key institutions that treat tens of thousands of patients a year and they're actually saving the lives of tens of thousands of people by carrying out the most complex operations, you're funding them by 20 to 30 percent as much as possible, and you're transferring them to create new cardio centers. So you're creating a hospital district, a maximum of 2-5 districts in the largest area, and you're telling me that you're retraining the base hospitals. I think it is a conscious policy to destroy the health system. I was raised in a pediatrician's family, who worked 37 years as a part-time doctor, and in my eyes my mother took her home until 12 o'clock in the morning after changing dozens and dozens of patients. These were the family doctors who gave their lives for the crumbs. I'm not saying what kind of pension she has today after 47 years as a senior doctor. This is the answer to a question about where we went and who we give priority to funding. I think that these hearings are the answer to a question where we have a key priority in the state. And what happened with academic science, and especially with medical science: Shalimov, Amos and you can count dozens of institutions -- this is actually cleaning up the base of those institutions where the best equipment today is transferred from the United States and other countries. I think these hearings should answer the questions and the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u147	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u148	The relevant bills were introduced into the session hall, and yesterday they were included in the list of those to be considered. I'm calling on the profile committee to immediately send them to the session room to correct what I think is a terrible state of funding academic science and especially medical academic science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u149	Thank you. People's Deputy Chizmar. No, it's not. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please, Mrs. Sisoyenko, we invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u150	Colleagues, I would like to begin by reminding us of the leadership of our Parliament, and including all of us about article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine: "People, their lives and health, honour and dignity, integrity and security are the highest social value in Ukraine." I'm sure it's these values that I've chosen to protect Midan, and it's these values that have been a two-year struggle against the people of Ukraine, which is waging a terrible fight in a terrible war that we so shamefully call "ATO." And while our soldiers are protecting our nation while people are giving up their last fight against the aggressor, I want you to hear the terrible statistics of our work with you in the service of those who chose us here. For 2.5 years, we passed 206 law enforcement laws, 259 tax and customs laws, only 5 laws of education and science, and only 3, only three laws of Ukraine, and they are not relevant to health care. And now we're going to vote with you one more time for another parliamentary hearing, from which nothing is going to happen. There will be no improvement, no specific improvements in medical facilities, no educational facilities. And I have a big question for all of you: please tell me, what state are we building, a police state or a state that just thinks about how to collect taxes from its citizens, or a state that has to provide a decent level of health care and a decent level of education for its citizens? The state’s attitude toward its citizens is, in turn, determined by the level of health care. If we go to our public health facilities, there's a lot of problems. First, doctors leave medical facilities, their jobs, go to work either in private facilities or go abroad. Medical supplies, almost everyone, are bought by citizens at their own expense. If a person does not have such funds, no one needs them. Scientific research, profit, medical taxation has nothing to buy medical facilities for, it just doesn't cost. So the self-help faction and I once again demand the head of Parliament to put forth bills, not just parliamentary hearings, but bills that relate to health care. Let us keep in mind that there is nothing more valuable than the life and health of each one of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u151	My colleagues, thank you. There, colleagues then pass the word to the last speaker, the national deputy of Aresonkov, and we finish the speeches by the deputies. And we ask you to return to the session room, because in a few minutes there will be a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, MPs, everyone who's watching us right now! I also agree with the idea that it is unfortunate that in the session room, when discussing such an extremely important issue, the lack of members will probably be difficult for us to make a decision. But now I'd like to talk about the next one. There were so many of our distinguished colleagues, including members of the Committee on Education and Science. I would like to thank them all today, led by Alexander Spiowakovsky, because the committee, in fact, is doing an extremely large amount of work on what to introduce and reform education, and on how to accept the necessary and absolutely qualified documents, deep down in its content. But I understand them and their irritation that unfortunately there are no significant positive steps in addressing the issue of reform. And perhaps the thing is that the chronic disease of underfunding in the entire field of education and science, which has been all of the years of independence of the state, is that it comes from the ignorance or lack of understanding in the first person of the state in the understanding and understanding of the priority of the education and science system. Until we realize that it is necessary to invest money today in the development of innovative technologies, in the development of the education and science system of Ukraine, there will be no progressive development of the state. There's no such thing as an awareness. So unfortunately, we have a huge number of problems. This confirms today's reform of the decentralization of power. The newly created territorial communities, they're now creating administrations, mini-educational units, local sciences. Look who's being assigned. People who have zootechnics who have worked as guards, guards and so on, listen, it's terrible! Don't you realize that tomorrow these people are going to define strategies in places of education and science? I think it's time to think to everyone, to all the members of society, with what's really going on in the education and science system, to unite, to demand from the government today, that the President understands that all efforts should be directed at the development of this sector and this system. Then our country of Ukraine will flourish. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u153	Thank you. Colleagues, according to the Rules, the closing word for Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich. And I invite Alexander Volodymyrovich to the rostrum, please. After that, we'll vote, we'll make a decision. And I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u154	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, I want to say that a lot of people here are protecting education, saying nice words and so forth. And what I'm saying is, there are six national deputies left on the committee. That's the attitude to education, to science, because you realize it's the smallest committee at all. So, in addition to supporting this decision, I would like to refer once again to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to ask a question, we have good national deputies who want to work on this committee – Irina Miroslavovna Konstankević, for example. So I'm asking very much and to support the ideology of rotation, the presence of people who are really patriots who want to work together on this committee, and this is very important. This will be a positive response to the expectations we have from people. Once again, I ask for your support, realizing that very few of us are. So every voice at what is said to be the price of gold. Glory to Ukraine! And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-22-m0.u155	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I fully support the ideology so that the deputies will be on the committees. I've put it to the vote several times. If I could do that with my own orders, that question would have been resolved for a long time. Unfortunately, there were no voices in the hall. And I'm consulting so that we can sort this out more quickly. Colleagues, we're done here. We're moving on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote, please. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. I am voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine" (room 5540) proposed by the committee as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:36:07]] For a hundred and I'll put it back on if you feel like there's a voice. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll be with you in a minute. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to Project Order 5540. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:36:54]] For 193 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, we've spoken to the committee head that we can work on and we can move and put to the vote. Today, the 5540 Regulation is being rejected. We're going to work together and we're going to propose to the hall again so that we can make a decision. Colleagues, we have a cluster of issues that is important, but the chairman of the Grigory Nemira committee is asking us to move this cluster of questions so that we don't put at risk the extremely important issues that are on the order of the day. I think we all have respect for the head of the committee, for the work that was done by the committee, we'll move them, put them on another day for consideration. Thus, a block of issues that relates to the rights of internally displaced persons is passed on to another day. Henceforth, the order of the day is exhausted. I urge everyone to carry out an active and productive work on the committees, and tomorrow will be an important and responsible day. For us to be able to work actively tomorrow, please work as effectively as possible on the committees. And, dear colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We've adopted an important block of ratification bills today. The whole plan we had was supported and approved. And I hope that tomorrow will be the same productive and effective work for Parliament. Thank you. Good-bye. Nice work on the committees.
