ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. My colleagues, I want to remind you, we have a block of housing and construction after lunch. This block was long prepared by a committee. I am very much asking for systematic work, especially on those bills that were prepared by the committee. Please support the committee. And, colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare to work in Parliament. We have, I'll remind you, a day-to-day stand-up bill of 4550 on amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. I'm asking you to prepare for registration, go into the hall, get ready for registration. Please come into the hall. So, are the colleagues ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register to attend the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:06:32]] 352 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I remind you, we are now moving into a housing and utility block. It's a second reading, colleagues. I'm asking a lot of attention because there aren't many amendments here, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm betting on the first question of the block. Draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing (for the Implementation of State Housing Programmes) (No. 4550). And I invite you to a report by the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and HKG Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich. Please report to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Yeah, I'd say it's a big name. But it's a very simple law. That's the law we want to do two things. Right first. These are opportunities, access for ATO soldiers to youth housing programs and other building programs financed from the central budget and can be financed from local budgets. That's more than that. That the central budget, unfortunately, can be avoided this year. 500 million, that's not even funny. But there is already an example when local budgets, when they think of their people, provide resources. For example, the city of Energodar of Zaporozhye region this year has set aside 80 million dollars from the local budget under this program for ATO soldiers and youth construction. This law passed the committee. There were six proposals made by legal entities that included two complete or partial and four rejected. First of all, this is instead of 10 percent 7 percent reduction. That's to the rate of mortgage lending that's known in the world. And the second is taken into account, Mr. Nedava, what was the question of what to add to these people who have the right to access these are the programs of the Luhansk and Donetsk region. We've added a more extensive version. As well as internally displaced persons who will be subject to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons. So I ask you to vote in favour of this law in general. And these are also the recommendations of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u3	So, colleagues, I want to emphasize. There's a small number of rights in this bill. We are now moving on to their consideration, but at the same time please invite MPs to the Hall, the amendments are small, the law is simple, and the law that is supported by both the Committee and most factions. I'm going to read some of the changes that have been rejected. 1 fix, Levenchenko. Turn on Yuri Lewchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u4	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill is really very necessary, and it would really have to work to provide our heroes, our war veterans with housing. However, the 1 amendment, which was unfortunately considered by the committee, completely nullifies the bill because, in addition to war veterans, it adds internally displaced persons. I remind our hall that the internally displaced are now a million 600,000 persons. If this amendment is left behind and the bill is issued in this way, there will really be no money for veterans, because it will be all blurry eyes and so small costs, which will be completely insignificant in the vast sea of internally displaced persons. In addition, it is not clear, frankly, why an internally displaced young person should have, for example, greater privileges than that of a large family. That's not entirely clear. So I insist that this project work for war veterans, and I insist that this amendment be put in place for confirmation and I call for it not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u5	Please, Peter Pavlovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u6	I don't think that's right. First of all, I want to say that 3 percent, this is the day that this program didn't work, and no person has yet received 3 percent of a year's loan for the duration of the Youth Building Fund. This time. And secondly, we don't understand in the committee what there are, internally displaced persons, why they can't have the right to do so. They also have that right, and our decision to the committee was to accept this amendment in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u7	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? My colleagues, I would like to point out that this amendment is supported by a committee. After 1 amendment, this is the amendment of the Nestava as the author, and I give him the word, one minute, please, Nedda, the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u8	I'd like to change a little bit, because it's really a very large number of 800 displaced persons. And I understand that very much. It takes a lot of money. Me, too. The amendment, if approved, I understand that it may not go through. But I'm asking you, let's at least leave this amendment to the cut of those who have lost their homes. There I have isolated individuals who have lost their homes as a result. As a result of the fighting, the aggression of Russia. If only in this one. leave this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, Peter Pavlovich, and I vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u10	Well, you know, Mr. Neda, do you understand how you imagine a man who came out of Donetsk, where he'll get a hint that she lost her apartment or Lugansk? I'd like to see it. Who will give him the help? The DNR will be issued? I won't. So I think we should have one. displaced persons should have all the same rights that are registered and do not have housing and dot. Please put the amendment to the vote. The committee for this amendment to be accepted by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u11	Thank you. I'm betting on confirming the first amendment of this bill. The committee supports, I take it, her committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u13	The committee supports. So whoever supports the position of the committee, please vote. First amendment for confirmation. Please vote, colleagues. The committee supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u14	It's in the committee's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u15	Please vote. Vote. [[16:14:13]] For 155 The decision is not made. 2 repairs, Dovbenko. Does Doubenko insist on voting? Dowbenko? Don't insist. 3rd, Melnik. Correction rejected. Does he insist on performing? No, it's not. Five o'clock, walking. Is Golovajov insisting? No, it's not. 6th, Levenchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone to Lechchenkovi. And, colleagues, this is the last amendment, and I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u16	Levchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 223 District, the city of Kiev. The bill proposes to increase the interest rate, the annual rate of financing of loans for the construction (acquisition) of affordable housing, when loans are made to the budget of financial institutions by the executioner of the state-owned housing target programme. In view of the requirements of part two of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine that when new laws are adopted or changes are made to existing laws are not allowed to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms, I believe that this rule should specify that new terms of credit will not extend to already approved contracts for the construction and acquisition of affordable housing. In other cases, a change in credit conditions, namely an increase in the interest rate of more than three times, may result in a significant threat to the non-fulfilment of the participants in their credit commitments because such conditions would not meet their real income. So society is, obviously, that this bet is not real, but if the people at this rate have already entered into a deal, it needs to be preserved, rather than changing the existing agreements into a new bet, it's totally unacceptable and it's against the Constitution. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u17	Thank you. So it is. Please comment on the 6th amendment, please comment, Peter Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u18	Mr. Levchenko, I'd like to say two questions. First of all, according to the Constitution, we don't have the law back. This time. And secondly, it's funny that we have in Ukraine, unfortunately, no credit has been issued for this program at all times, unfortunately, less than 3 percent. So it can't work in any way, because it's just never worked before.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u19	They insist on voting, right? So I'm voting on the 6th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee did not support and reject it. Whoever supports the amendment of Lechchenk, please vote. A committee against her. Please vote. [[16:16:55]] For-81 Thank you. What's the next correction? Longenkov or Matvienkov? Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u20	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we have now voted on number one, which has not been recruited, so let us say the appropriate number of votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u21	What's the correction you're making?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u22	At the first amendment that we have made today, and this amendment has not obtained the required number of votes. In doing so, we have thrown away the number of people in need of housing, displaced persons, whom we simply do not see in our country today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u23	Excuse me, I'm asking, which way are you going?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u24	First of all, I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u25	It had already been voted on, and a decision had already been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u26	I'm telling you again, I'm on the first page.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u27	It had already been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u28	I say again, I ask you once again to put her on the stand, to dial the required number of votes. Why? Because these are the people who have been deprived of their homes, the people who have been in this territory today and the attitudes that are formed for this category of people, the few that, as a result of the bombings, they have been deprived of their housing, property, property, we do not resolve these issues, and here we throw them overboard. That's categorical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u29	Thank you. As a matter of fact, the decision was already made in the hall. And, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I ask you to prepare for the vote, I ask everyone to come into the hall, colleagues, and prepare for the vote. We have completed the discussion of all the rights and please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing on the Implementation of State Housing Programmes, Number 4550, second reading and generally, colleagues. Please vote, please support 4550 in second reading and in general, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:19:42]] For 211 Colleagues, I'll put you back in the hall, please. I'll put you back in, but please invite the factions of the factions to the hall, and please, especially the members of the committee. Please, one minute, Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich, one minute. And please come into the hall. Head of the committee, deputy chairman of the committee. Please, Peter Pavlovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u30	Mr. Head! Colleagues! I ask you to go back to the first amendment if we want to have in this law a non-political understanding of everyone: both opposition, not opposition, and coalition. So I'm asking you to go back to those people who are internally displaced today and put them to the vote again. Very, don't listen to Mr. Levchenk, put the matter to the vote, and I ask the coalition. Accept, because there is no hope for a central budget, but in local budgets, the local authority that finances the fund has the right to determine how these costs go: how much for displaced persons, how much for ATOs, how much for young people. An example that we worked with the fund, on Energodar. So I ask you, coalition, to vote, this is a normal law, human. And I don't think we're going to have any problems voting like that if we accept this first amendment, please. Please, colleagues, vote for her. And please return to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u31	Colleagues, first of all, I'm going to put the vote back to the draft Law 4550. Colleagues, please take up jobs now. And I ask you to vote now, Peter Pavlovich, did you take the card? Can you vote? I propose to return to consideration of 4550 and please vote, please support the return to the vote of 4550. Please vote [[16:22:15]] For 226 Back to the hearing, colleagues. The chairman of the committee will now make his proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u32	I'll have some gentlemen. I ask you to return to the first amendment of the committee, which says not only the Lugansk and Donetsk region, but for all internally displaced persons who will be distributed to all the people who are, and not to look at the populism of ours. I don't know what to do. All of us have Ukrainians, especially those who are now in Ukraine and who have come to this territory and want the state to help them. What is more, once again, I say that they will be helped more than by the state, but by the local authorities who want jobs and the ability to keep them in their seats. Please vote for the amendment first only in the committee. Please, she will answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u33	Colleagues, I'll put it back on the table for the first amendment, if there are any votes, we'll discuss it again. I'm going to go back to the debate, if there are no votes, I'm going to put the law in the paper that's been discussed. Therefore, who supports the return to the first amendment, please vote. [[16:23:46]] For 254 We're back to the hearing. My colleagues, I'm once again proposing a first amendment to confirm Lechchenk's proposal. If the first amendment is supported, please vote. [[16:24:20]] For the 250. Confirmed, 250 bucks. And now I'm putting a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis, on the Development of Construction and Housing (number 4550) in the second reading and in general, in the Committee's edition, in the second reading and in general, in the Committee's edition. Please vote. Please support the committee. Please vote. [[16:25:04]] For 265 The law is passed. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next one, this is the draft Act (5240) of the Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[Noise Nodes]] Wait a second. Excuse me, the next one is 3696, I apologize, 3696 is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the extension of the period of acceptance of construction objects built without permission to carry out construction works (3696). And the report invites the head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Development, and ZHK Kodola, Alexander Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u34	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Construction Regulation Act on the extension of the period of acceptance into operation of construction works built without permission to carry out construction works (registration number 3696) considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of 18 October 2016 and adopted on the basis. The bill proposes to continue by 31 December 2018 the possibility of establishing a document on acceptance into operation of construction works without permission to carry out construction work on certain buildings without payment of fines. This is first of all about individual residential buildings, garden buildings, farm buildings, suburban buildings, and buildings, built between August 5, 1992 and March 12, 2011. The second is the construction of public buildings and buildings and the construction of the agricultural assignment of the first and second categories of complexity by 12 March 2011. In accordance with Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 1685 of 18 October 2016, our committee has been working on the draft law for the second reading. During the time spent preparing the bill for second reading, seven proposals were made to the committee from the right of legislative initiative. At its meeting on November 2, 2016, the Committee decided to approve the comparative table of the bill for second reading and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of its consideration of adopting it in the second reading and generally as a law. Taking into account the warnings of some colleagues about the ambiguity of applying the content of building amnestys and building objects to which they spread, as proposed by the committee, and with a view to removing any misunderstandings, I would like to read the final text of the committee under the transcript. Paragraph 9 of section V of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "On the regulation of construction activities" reads as follows: "The State Architectural Authority, by 31 December 2018, free of charge for 10 days from the date of submission of the application by owners, users of land plots where construction objects are located, built without permission to carry out construction works, except for multi-story, multi-room dwellings and buildings, built with significant violations of legislation and building regulations, is accepted for operation by technical testing." The following are the provisions of the current law: "Individual Garden Housing, Garden Buildings, Farming Buildings and Buildings, built between 5 August 1992 and 12 March 2011; Public Buildings of the first and second categories of complexity, construction and construction of the first and second categories of complexity." And so on by the text of the law in force. The bill is accepted by the Chief Legal Authority without any notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u35	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u36	This bill awaits thousands of citizens who cannot resolve the issue of the design of ownership of individual residential dwellings, garden buildings, farm buildings, and buildings built between August 5, 1992 and March 12, 2011. It is therefore proposed that citizens be given the opportunity to determine their property rights and to adopt Bill 3696 as a whole in second reading as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u37	Thank you. Colleagues, very few amendments, so I'm asking you to stay put. Let's move on to the lines that have been deflected. Two o'clock, Capplin. Don't insist. 3rd Antonistak. Don't insist. Five o'clock, Yvchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u38	Confirming 7th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u39	Five, no insistence. 6th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please. Turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u40	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This bill is a draft law in the chain of work of the construction mafia in this Supreme Council, where instead of protecting public space, instead of protecting the interests of the vast majority of Ukrainians, the interests of the building mafia are protected, in fact, and it is allowed to introduce completely illegal objects into operation. This bill suggests, it's done under such an explanation that it's supposed to be for small houses, for villages and so forth, that, you see, people couldn't build with documents, and that's why people need to be able to get into use right now. So my point is that if you're honest, if you really think about the village, about the small houses, then make an amendment to what this has to do with the areas that are in the villages, villages and villages of the urban type, then you'll be telling the truth, and so this bill applies absolutely everything, the whole country and the big cities will be the result of what they're going to continue to introduce completely illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u41	You're done, aren't you? Okay. Please comment, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u42	My dear colleague may not have made much of a deal because my colleague Dmitry Andreyevsky's amendment is aimed at removing your comments. In particular, your amendment is not supported by the committee, because the entire area within the population is excluded from the amnesty, so citizens who have built their own individual or residential building, the garden house, within the population, will not be able to use the building amnesty. The next line of 7, it is, I would like to stress again, is that apart from housing, except for multi-story, multi-room housing and buildings, which are built with substantial violations of legislation and building regulations. That's exactly what I read under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u43	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the 6th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports the 6th amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:32:30.]] For 114 The decision is not taken. At 7 Yvchenk’s correction, turn on the microphone. Ivchenko had already signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Here, think about it, please. I want everyone to take 7 of the amendments into account. A subjective criterion is introduced to refuse legalization of self - construction. I mean, that's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. So if you built a multistory, and it's basically in line with the DBN, the SNIP, it can be legally legitimized according to this amendment. Because there are no significant violations. In principle, it stands, it meets all the building standards. So, colleagues, I propose that we reject this amendment. Because the introduction of the term "substantial violation" will be very subjective and will depend on the central authority of the executive branch that regulates these issues. I want us to be clear about where the truth is and where lobbyism is. And I'd like you and I to set up this clearance for confirmation and fail. Thank you. We didn't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u45	Thank you. I'll put a 7 on confirmation. Is that an identical offer? All right, another Levchenko, a minute, please. By the 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u46	No, well, with all due respect to the previous speaker. This law is so terrible. This amendment will at least make it a little better. Because after this amendment, even if these exceptions do not apply to multistory buildings. If you're "falling down" right now, then these exceptions also apply to multi-story buildings. Then you make this law even worse than it is now with this amendment. On the contrary, I would now like to turn to the author of this amendment, Mr. Andreyevsky, and suggest that he put not only on the multi-story floor but also on the middle-floor barrier to at least correct this law after you have not adopted my amendment. And in this option, well, I'm going to go to Mr. Vadim Yvchenk right now, and I urge him to clear out his proposal to start this amendment, because if you knock it down, it's going to be a total horror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u47	So you're subtracting the amendment, the proposal, right, colleagues? It's coming off. So we're done talking. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was an offer to ask for confirmation. It was taken. Please comment on Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that with the aim of avoiding the possibility of introducing a multi-story residential building and a facility built with substantial violations of legislation and building regulations, the Committee has taken into account the amendment of Dmitry Andriewsky, which has been noted, I repeat: apart from multi-story apartment buildings and buildings built with substantial violations of legislation and building rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u49	So can I put it to a vote? Is there a confirmation requirement or is it off? There is no such requirement. So, colleagues, this requirement is being removed. Excuse me, look, while we're having a discussion, if there's a compromise proposal, come to the head of the committee, let him hear it, and I'll make a proposal to the head of the committee. I can't do it five times at a time. Sir, is it your suggestion to put to the vote or to make a compromise of the 7th amendment? As it is. The committee insists on putting, as is, a vote. We're done, colleagues, talking. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm betting. Please take up jobs, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm betting on the vote. The discussion is over. Colleagues, I'll put it that way, I'll put it that way. Let the committee head make the correct sound, and I'll tell you what the committee head did. All right, we got a deal, right? Please, now, the committee head, the deputy chairman of the committee, Alexander Mikhailovich, will make a statement in which I will put the vote to the vote. Alexander Mikhailovich, please make sure we get a positive vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u50	Colleagues, then the compromise is offered. Dmitry Andriyewski's edit will read as follows: "The State Architectural Authority, by 31 December 2018, will be free of charge for 10 working days from the date of submission of the application to owners, users of the land plots on which construction works are located, built without permission to carry out construction works, except for apartment buildings and buildings, built with substantial violations of legislation and building rules and regulations, as a result of technical testing I accept in operation." Is that accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u51	All of it. Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the Extension of the Term of Enactment in the Exploitation of Construction Objects, built without permission to carry out construction work (No. 3696) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:39:00]] For 206 206 – yes. Was this amendment not supported by what he said? That's the amendment, colleagues, I'll set it up. Let me put the second reading back on the committee. Can you hold it? On the second, will it be supported? So, colleagues, I'm going to put the next motion to vote -- to send the draft of Law 3696 to the committee for a second reading. Please support me, colleagues, for re-reading so we don't lose the bill. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, for re-reading. Please vote. [[16:39:54]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's go to the next chapter, this is the first reading. And in the first reading, we have a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving construction conditions (5587). Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:40:34]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, a moment of attention! I would like to say that we are now proposing a very important bill for consideration by the Supreme Council. On the one hand, it is very simple, but it makes several changes to Ukrainian legislation in order to improve construction and building business in Ukraine. Directly, Law 5587 allows for the abolition of additional technical conditions from the State Emergency Service. Practically, given that architectural and building requirements will be met for projects, there will be no need for further recourse to the State Emergency Service on additional requirements. When the designers meet all the requirements of state-building regulations, they may reduce the number of permit procedures and the deadlines for their implementation. This bill also provides for a regulation of the laws of architectural activity of a situation involving the licensing of certified engineers. If architectures were allowed to be certified before, they didn't have higher education, they could only have an internship. We think it's an extremely important specialty and an architect has to have a higher education, and that's why this change is being made. And also in relation to decentralisation and transfer of authority to the site of the State Architecture and Building Inspection, we need to address the question of how to report information to the state statistical authorities from newly created bodies. Please support and allow this project to be considered in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u53	Thank you. The co-report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction and Urban Affairs and Housing of Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Please, Dmitri Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u54	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, Committee of 22 February 2017 reviewed the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the conduct of urban activities, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In view of the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 January 2017 of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Improvement of Urban Activity No. 1817, some of the provisions of the bill are already included in the adopted law. The Committee proposes, as a result of the first reading, to adopt a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the conditions for building activities on the basis and generally as a law with such a proposal in mind. Subparagraph 1, paragraph 2, sub-paragraphs 1, 3, 4 of section 3 and draft delete. Once again, I would like to say that this is related to the fact that we have adopted another law, where all these rules are regulated. Also, my fellow dignitaries, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it will be greatly simplified to obtain appropriate permits and approve the project documentation, according to state building standards approved by the relevant agreement, and the expertise will be carried out by independent experts who will be personally responsible for the authenticity of the materials that they will approve and inspect in the project documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u55	Thank you. So, colleagues, please record: two in, two in, two in, against. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u56	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I think it's a really important bill, but the article 17 that was before this, she suggested that the designs be people who had the education skills of a specialist and a master. Now we're reducing the educational qualifications directly for the projects, so they could be smaller. I think we do have the quality of these people to step up -- that's the first. The other one. I understand that we're not going to propose today, more specifically, to take technical conditions in the State Fire Service, because we clearly understand that they're still doing their legal acts and they're proposing that the builders pay 3 percent for the development of fire protection there and so on. I think between the first and the second we're going to work out this bill and make it one that's actually going to match both the Doing Business, and it's going to correspond to a reduction in the cost of housing or real estate that's going to be built. In the first reading, we invite you to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u57	From the Radical Party, from the rostrum of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u58	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. From this high parliamentary rostrum, I want to address the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko. Dear Peter Alexiovich! Parliament passed a law long ago to ensure that grandchildren have their grandparents so that their siblings can make an inheritance without paying 5 percent of the time. It's a lot of money in the village. When people built the house, her grandmother dragged her all her life to her hillside, raised her in a miserable way, and today her grandchildren need to pay money to live in their relatives ’ home. Unfortunately, you still haven't signed that law. I am addressing you on behalf of millions of Ukrainian grandmothers and grandparents and their grandchildren, please sign this law. Give us an opportunity to form an inheritance and not pay the government's tax. You say you can't cancel an inheritance because there's no money in the budget. Cover up the smuggling, stop the corruption, support the national producer, remove the head office of the National Bank of Gontarevo, give cheap loans to farmers, industrial producers, and you'll have the money in the budget. And you don't have to take the stupid money out of our dear grandparents and their grandchildren and grandchildren. So I'm asking you to sign this law, cancel the duty that they're forced to pay today, those houses in the villages don't cost anything anyway. But to change the house, you have to pay the stupid money. I am confident that the entire Parliament will support me. And the last. Address to Prime Minister Groysman. People pay dragon tariffs because of you. We demand a reduction in the price of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u59	Gusak Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u60	Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow MPs! The Opposition Block will not vote in favour of this bill. And I'd like to explain again why. By the way, our faction was ready to vote in favour of the previous bill on the settlement of urban activity, which has just been directed at re-reading. But yesterday, five bills were finally put into the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which could at least make life easier for nearly two million Ukrainians who lost their homes, their jobs, and many others as a result of the war. and many are forced to start life at first. But I would like to remind you what happened yesterday in Parliament. At first, unknown people in camouflage are not known how they got into the parliamentary room, and then a broken vice-speaker instead of regulating the situation in a parliamentary way, they just got confused and closed the meetings and these bills weren't discussed. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, you have responded very painfully to the fact that the leader of our faction indicated that more than 90 percent of the Ukrainians are not satisfied with the work of the Supreme Council because of the disorder and the inability to organize its work effectively. So is this bill more important than those five bills that were not considered yesterday? Traditionally, they were to be transferred to the next day, today. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u61	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u62	Please pass it on to Andrew's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an extremely simple and vital law. I urge all deputies to focus. What do we do with this law? We're making it much easier to obtain arbitrary documentation, to agree on projects. Those fears that we've heard from colleagues right now, they don't apply in any way to this bill. And I also want to remind you of such a very important rating, including our country, which is very important as Doing Business. The adoption of this and the next law will provide an opportunity to significantly improve the status of Ukraine in this rating. And only one point of increase in this rating gives you tens, hundreds of millions of additional investments. So, my dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support the Cabinet of Ministers, to support a properly qualified committee, to vote in favour of this law -- and to allow builders to significantly increase the volume of construction, to get quality housing for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u64	Thank you. Alona Babak. Olena Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u65	We think that this bill is extremely important. And really, the concerns that are being talked about in the hall today are unnecessary, because Ukraine is now going through deregulation, but there is no way to make the quality and requirements of urban documentation and architecture worse. Thus, the technical conditions and restrictions imposed by an entity that builds an object require that certain requirements of fire safety be met and so on. And when a project is made, according to these conditions and limitations it has to be prepared and tested. By a law that was recently adopted: on urban documentation and preparation, and on quality control, we see that the archbud control authorities will control the development of projects, taking into account the constraints that are being made at the planning documentation stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u66	Thank you. From the Kodol People's Front, turn on the microphone. One minute will be enough7
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. It's the deregulation of economic activity in construction, the simplification of procedures for engineering provision of construction facilities for physical and legal persons that is now a requirement of time. And it's this bill that makes it possible. This is support for the construction sector, the economy of Ukraine as a whole. And of course, today, the Supreme Council can make twice as much progress as it did in the last two years together. The People's Front votes in favour, we support, we urge the entire Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall right now and take your jobs. A vote will take place in a minute. From the non-fractional moment of Yuri Lewchenko, there will be a vote in a minute. Please, Lechchenko microphone, and please take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u69	Levchenko, Freedom, Kiev, 223, one-manage majority constituency. Every week, in Kiev and in every big city, there are illegal forgetfuls, every week people take parks into people, they build skyscrapers instead of sports courses, people will even have TRCs on top of subway stations, just like now above the Hero's Dnipra subway in Kiev, absolutely illegal things. And this project, instead of making the lives of the outsiders more difficult, suggests that the requirements for getting the output and the technical conditions of the DSS should be abolished, that the standards for getting the output of the technical conditions for fire and technology security should be excluded. I'm asking. What, do construction workers now find it difficult to live? What, they're not destroying the city right now? Do you want to make it even easier for them to destroy cities? So I'm talking to all majors right now, and I'm addressing the so-called opposition little factions that the previous construction project, instead of burying them, pushed them into the second reading. Under no circumstances should you vote for this if you are loved by Ukrainians, not by Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u70	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion is over. Deputy Prime Minister, one minute and we vote. Take up jobs. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make it a little bit more clear, either to those who haven't figured it out or to those who just want to figure it out. First of all, this rule cancels, not the condition, but the requirement, but the additional approach to the DSS to show them once again what needs to be done. Directly, each projector must adhere to state building standards, including fire safety. He's still getting these demands, but now he's going to get these requirements along with architectural and building requirements, and it's just reducing additional approaches to officials to put corruption risks at risk again. And so now that I hear that there is no need to cancel such campaigns, I realize that maybe someone has already been asked to back it up and not cancel it. Once again, it doesn't affect security, DBNI both functioned and functioned, but we'll make it simpler, more transparent and faster to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u72	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. The discussion is over. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I, my colleagues, am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the conditions for building work No. 5587 on the basis of a committee proposal, a colleague, a foundation. Please vote, please support base 5587. Please vote, vote, colleagues. [[16:57:42]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I was approached by a letter from two factions of Parliament -- "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front" -- calling for a break. But they're ready to replace the break with a speech. Who will act? Ivan Melniczuk. Please, three minutes, please, before Melniczuk's performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! For about a month now, in our society, as in Parliament, an era is continuing with the election of an independent candidate for the independent audit of the NAB. This epepoch has abandoned anything but the truth. I will remind everyone once again that it was the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, who founded the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on 16 April 2015. And who, if not, is the guarantor along with the parliamentary faction, with all the adequate people in Parliament, to make it work and work, and to be independent, is the very idea of creation. But what happened this month? Anything they didn't do, they were watering the dirt and the President, watering the dirt and the members of the Anti-Corruption Committee, those who didn't want to do "hotels," as it were, youth with corruption in our country. And look what happened. One candidature, one candidature, one candidature, Parliament requests the committee to consider these nominations. As soon as the wish of the majority in the committee to convene meetings of the committee and to vote on the request of the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Speaker to speed up the consideration of the candidature, there is a situation immediately where the head of the Committee on Anti-Corruption of Corruption says: no, we will not do so, because I do not want to, because there are very many reasons not to do so. There is one reason for doing this is the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committees Act, which states in article 43 in a second paragraph that the committee head is obliged to convene committee meetings if at least one third of the committee members insist on it. If the chairman of the committee does not convene a meeting at the request of its members, they may meet on their own and, if there is a quorum, choose an ad hoc chairman to chair the meeting. What are we left with? In accordance with the law and democratic principles, we have done so. For two days we talked about gathering the chairman of the committee. Two of us were talking about, let's share our thoughts. The two of us were talking about what we're going to do in a democratic way. No, no, that didn't happen! Today, the majority of the Anti-Corruption Committee was convened by a committee, and by ad hoc procedure, a chairman was appointed to hold this meeting, and on which we are sitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u74	Please, 30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u75	And that's where we decided. Now tell me that we have decided in a non-democratic manner and have made the wrong decision. And we made that decision that you didn't want us to hear on the committee. And we're giving Parliament the opportunity to consider these two candidates and to make a decision, one by one, and one by one. What are we wrong about? Why have we been muddled for a month? We need to hear each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u76	Okay, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u77	And that's why. I can tell you a lot about this whole case. But we demand of the Head of the Supreme Council today, and I very much ask you to put into order the day-to-day question of this matter. Thank you very much for your support. And I hope you will choose a worthy candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u78	Thank you. The second statement from two factions: A radical party and Self-Help. Who will act? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u79	We ask you, Mr. Head, because there are big things going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u80	Colleagues, now, according to the statements that have been made. Now. There's a written statement. There's a written statement. My colleagues, I'm going to call it a break and tell you that there's a lot of intrigue going on. I want to report that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has sent the matter to the committee, the committee has taken a decision and is meeting. If there's a committee requirement, I'll put it to a vote. At 5:30. At 5:34 a.m., please be in the hall. At 5:30 p.m., we will continue our session. Please be in the voting room. At 5:30, everyone please be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u81	Colleagues, in one and a half minutes, will be completed. So I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Colleagues, break is over, 17.34. So the break time is over. Please, two minutes of statement from two factions, Egor Sobolev, and we move on to the vote. Two minutes, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u82	I want to tell my fellow Members in Parliament that the speaker of Parliament, unfortunately, is already bringing us into an affair for the second time. Everyone here knows very well that I have never violated any of the committee's rules as soon as I received from a group of national deputies a request for an extraordinary committee meeting, I immediately assigned it. Only the law requires the committee head to report at least 24 hours each member of the committee of such a meeting, as I have done. I am waiting for all the members of the committee to meet tomorrow, Friday, at 2:15, after the completion of the plenary work of the Supreme Council. The other one. Everyone understands that this fraud, these manipulations, documents and procedures are behind fear. There are people here who are afraid that Nasirov will be followed by the NABA Special Forces along with the NABU detectives, along with the prosecutors of the anticorruption prosecutor’s office. But do not translate your fear into others. Don't ruin the last legitimate way of putting top-corruptioners before the law. Because you, you push people into the street, you push people into illegal, in your opinion, but the only available methods in society are those that remain if the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office are destroyed. Our committee has created revolutionary legislation, and I propose that every member remember that. We have to move on, we need an anti-corruption court now. I ask the members of the committee, Sergei Leschchenka, Borislav Berezu, Dmitri Dobrodomov, Yuri Derevyanka to give their own assessment of what is going on in this room and what is going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u83	Thank you, colleagues. No, there were no insulting remarks. Replica is given when offensive statements are made. Colleagues, pay attention! I'd like a moment of your attention. I want to make a point, and I've studied this question over and over again, and I want to inform you. Indeed, the last time the Supreme Council of Ukraine sent this question to the committee. And I submitted the relevant document to the committee. I mean, the head of the committee was told a lie and manipulated that there was no committee insufficient to deal with. I specifically asked yesterday to have a recommissioned application, and I wrote it again, and yesterday I placed the head of the legal department, which would prove that the application was correct, colleagues. You can't manipulate the hall and you can't manipulate the committee. It's the same if I just went out of here and said I wouldn't drive. The deputies met, the deputies held meetings, and I asked myself, "This meeting is legal and lawful." I'm in a session of moderators. I have a request from the two largest factions of Parliament, I have a decision from a committee prepared by the committee secretariat and presented to me. And according to those procedures, I'm now putting the question to the vote to put in the agenda on demand right now for consideration of the agenda. I remind you, there was a replication when there were abusive remarks. There were no offensive words. And so, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am putting to the vote a proposal to now include in today's agenda the agenda of the session now to consider selecting a candidate from the Commission from external control for conducting an independent evaluation (audit) of the effectiveness of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, there's a requirement of two factions, two major factions of Parliament, and I can't ignore it as the lead session. And so I ask everyone to calm down and act in accordance with democratic procedures, to be determined by voting. The committee, by the way, I read the committee's decision, proposes two candidates, and the board will determine which one to choose. Please vote on the inclusion, now to consider selecting a candidate for the External Oversight Commission from an independent evaluation. Please vote, please identify yourself. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:39:59]] For 205 The decision did not get the required number of votes. The decision is not included in the order of the day’s session. [[Noise Nodes]] And I, my colleagues, move on to the next question of the agenda. This is a question, I think, of housing and utilities. And the next issue in the agenda is question 3610 – the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (as regards the cancellation of the fuel share in the development of the infrastructure of the inhabited area). Colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:41:07]] For-161 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Sabashuk Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u84	Your Honor, I'm going to step away from this situation a little bit. You have a builder who's been in construction for 30 years, a builder who's been building nuclear stations, a builder who's been working for 20 years at a Chernobyl station, a builder who's building housing today. I'm asking young deputies, when the question is for builders, we builders, we build the future of the country, we're not a barrier, we're a barrier. Yes, the organs have to deal with the barriers. We're builders. And I'm vice president of the Building Chamber once again, young people, we can build anything you want, including a wall, bring a hundred cubes of concrete and fill it all up, we can bring the shit to you, noble. Now to the law. The law is very simple. I'm not going to talk about what a pie is. It's not a tax, it's not a congregation, it's a meal. A meal established by the Supreme to raise money in the pockets, in the pockets of officials, and no more. I'm not going to talk about 10 percent of the investment tax today stopping the flow of investment into the country. I'm not going to talk about any investor going to the country when you have to pay 10 percent of the investment. I'm not going to talk about today, I'm going to bring up this example, the city of Zaporozhye, my family. Gentlemen, the Opposition Block, listen to me, I know you're not going to vote. An example. Mr. Shurma, your son did a reconstruction of the cleaners, paid Zaporoztal 3 billion dollars. And our clean, dirty prosecutor's office got excited. They made me pay 10 percent, they said we had to pay for it. People have invested in cleaners, but according to our laws, they have to pay 10 percent of taxes. That is why there is a question today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u85	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u86	We, Ukraine, are moving forward, doing everything we can to make investment project, doing everything we can to get the builders who work honestly to work honestly, and to give the barriers to their hands, or we, the degenerates, stop here. Today, the Supreme Council is going to show who is the national deputy who wants to develop the country and who wants to go through the old stuff. Today this vote will show. Thank you. I've told you everything, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u87	Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Now you're going to sign up, and you're going to come out of factions. Abdullin, please turn on the microphone. Yvchenko. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u88	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want to draw attention to some figures. These funds, which go as a pie, go directly into the form of money. I'm the one who wants to make up for what they're saying is that someone's cheating. Here we are, colleagues, in the cities. Kiev: 95 percent of the development budget Odessa: 42 per cent of the development budget, Zaporozhye – 70, Vinnica – 99, South Odessa Region – 92, Black Sea – 75 per cent of the development budget. So you and I want to take out more of this money? I told you yesterday that we even overburdened the budgets of the local councils by giving them powers of state, which were essentially agreed upon at the time when cities of regional importance and district centres had 75 percent of the VAT, and with them they made such an agreement that we would have, you would have 60, but the state functions of medical, municipal, educational, would go from the state budget. Dear colleagues, this is an untimely bill, I understand European practice, but believe me, let's think first of all about development. Let the communities rebuild, let the communities build their roads, asphalt cover, and then we'll go back to the things that are being treated differently in European practice today. And I'll tell you one last thing. When you and I took the tax, the excise tax, you know, from the auto-fuelling stations, today it's starting to come back in bulk. Splintered excise duty, wholesale excise duty, more specifically. He's coming back today. So call your communities, if you don't come, in many communities, only 20 percent of what happened last year comes back. Fellows, let the communities develop, and this law is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u89	Andryevsky Dmitry Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also begin my performance with the figures. We've just heard about the percentages that make up this tax in the development budget. This figure, which is collected in general throughout the country, amounts to 1 billion 340 million dollars. That's a relatively large figure, but half of that money is being collected in Kiev, and again, compared to the 32 billion budget, it's a relatively small number. Dear colleagues, we hold many round tables on the committee with the participation of our international partners and a clear conclusion, and builders, and representatives of local self-government bodies, which is an additional fiscal burden on construction. The stake is an additional fiscal burden on the builders. Local self - government authorities have many ways to compensate for conditional losses. Although, again, I want to say that they are relatively small. It's also a real estate tax, and it's a direct investment contest where you can invest in financing and building social, transport, engineering infrastructure. Once again, this is one of the laws that will enable a significant increase in the investment attractiveness of our state, to significantly improve Ukraine's position in the "doing business" rating. And this is, again, one point, this is tens, hundreds of millions of additional investments. This is also the creation of new jobs. This, again, we go back to local taxes, taxes on the income of individuals, increased investments and other positive things. Dear colleagues! I suggest that this law may support the first reading? In order for us to be able to work on second readings, we take into account suggestions, including local self - government. Believe me, you can find and we will definitely find additional possibilities to make these conditional, I repeat, conditional losses compensate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u91	From Self-Help, Markevich. Turn on the microphone, please. Jaroslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Mrs. Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u93	Dear National Deputies! Last year local authorities collected 1 billion 400 million of the property tax. We actually introduced this tax so that cities could develop. And you just heard the figure from our colleague, that's a billion 350 million. This is what a pie is all about. In fact, we double - counting people who are now self - financing new housing. Friends, the person who buys an apartment in downtown Kiev, the old people who, any city in the center, already have all the infrastructure. And everything is beautiful, and the gardens are standing, and the engineering infrastructure is. Why is it that a person in a new building today needs to build new engineering networks and gardens, and so forth, if he still has to pay the real estate tax after creating this object that will generate the community’s income on this tax? Dear colleagues, indeed, you can always say that something is not in time. But we need to change our approach by introducing new taxes, somewhere we need to give people new incentives for development and not pick them up with such things as an extra contribution as a pie stake. So our faction has divided thoughts, but my position is to support clearly in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u94	Galchenko sends Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u95	Igor Šurma. "The Opposition Block." In discussing this question today, we have heard an entirely new sobering view of what is happening in Ukraine. On the one hand, we're talking about tax pressure on companies that are now able to pay taxes, and it's like they're being invested in the development of the city. But look what's happening now. There's been a kind of metallurgical combination like Zaporoztal. Today, this combination suffers from the blockade, and as one of the largest budget fillers today, instead of benefiting, giving work to tens of thousands of people, it may have a problem with paying wages, producing its own produce. But today it is not, even political opponents today, that this structure, which currently operates and has tens of thousands of people working there, puts 300 million dollars into the cleaning plant. It's ecology. Then the question is: Why are political opponents holding a rally against this? Today the question of a new domain stove is being asked, it is a clean building, an ecological one. Why are propaganda and attacks on this enterprise being carried out in connection with the failure to modernize technology today? Today, this enterprise invests billions of dollars of its own income to make the air and ecology cleaner. I thank the political opponents who have noted from the rostrum today the contribution of this company to the development of the city and the environment in Ukraine. And they are one pillar of the Ukrainian economy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u96	Colleagues, I'll give you my word. Colleagues, pay attention! Also, I was talking to me before lunch, and a huge number of deputies also called for us to consider 5240. A huge number of deputies, right? If after that, colleagues. So I'm asking you to limit the discussion as much as possible right now, if there's any support, I'll put it in afterwards, right? Insect Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u97	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u98	Colleagues, that's it. Jacenka, one minute. Jacenka, one minute and we'll move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, well, this law is still designed to enrich these construction companies. And in fact, you all know that today local budgets are forced to pay 3,200 for budgeters the same as other expenditure they didn't have before. So I don't think there's a way to vote for this law, and it's going to put all the settlements and the district centers and the small towns on its knees. Personally, I will vote against it, and I urge everyone who loves their city, their village, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u100	Thank you, colleagues. There's going to be a vote now, and I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, please come in. As long as the colleagues come in. Yeah, 30 seconds from the Lechchenkos and a minute from Zubko. Please, 30 seconds, not longer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u101	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is the third bill today that has been proposed to make life easier for the builders, for the constructionists who have a profitability of up to 100 percent, and sometimes up to 120-130 percent of the income from profitability. What the building mafia is offering today in this session hall. I call upon all majors, I call upon all opposition factions so-called not to vote for it. This will reduce the availability of local budgets, and this prolongs the building vacchanal in large cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u102	Please, Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I would like to address all those who today support a simple Ukrainian family that pays for the square meters that pays for the construction of investment objects and that pays this corrupt tax. Why? Because after fiscal decentralization, local budgets now put 175 billion dollars into their development. And when we talk about this pie share, which is opaque, which gives one green light, and the other makes one walk around the offices and arrange, we're saying that it's also paid directly by the Ukrainian family that wants to get or buy a place to live today. And I'd like to call everyone and look at it from the point of view, not from the local self-government that was passed on to you today in budgetary decentralization, and the extra funds, and who's paying for this money that's in the market share. Nowhere in the world today is there such an opaque situation where everyone has to arrange to include both engineering networks and other things that do not directly apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u104	Please add a minute. Finish, please, Mr. Gennady.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u105	Not directly related to construction. And I'd like to say again, today we have to look at a little bit in the past, when we entered earlier, this pie part, then there was nothing in the budgets at all, everything came out of the state budget, through government subsidies, the mayors walked with an outstretched hand. In the last year alone, an additional 50 billion added to local budgets, besides real estate taxes, to develop. How much can we tax our citizens with these taxes? Please take a step toward a civilized approach to improving the construction sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u106	Thank you, colleagues. So please, colleagues, come into the hall, we're done talking, we're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, distinguished national deputies, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, colleagues. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? No, it's not. Colleagues, so I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (regarding the cancellation of the fuel share in the development of the infrastructure of the inhabited site) (No. 3610). The bill is based only on the basis, colleagues, all the adjustments and suggestions we can correct for the second reading, we can correct for the second reading. Now I'm asking you to take up your jobs and I'm asking you to support draft Law 3610 on a basis, colleagues. Please vote, please support 3610 as a basis. Wait a minute, don't stop, now. So please 3610 on a base, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please vote. [[17:58:31]] For-138 The decision is not made. Colleagues, the committee's recommissioning, colleagues, to the committee, to the committee for work. I would like to make the next proposal that the Rules provide for a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. So, colleagues, I'm putting draft Law 3610 on the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support the committee for re-reading. [[17:59:17]] For-163 And the final proposal is to get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative for pre-production, colleagues. So I'm voting on draft Law 3610 and I'm proposing that we get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative to work so that we don't lose the bill, colleagues. Please vote, please support, please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:59:53]] For 172 The decision is not made. No votes, no colleagues, unfortunately, are exhausted. I want to report that tomorrow at 12:30 there will be a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, tomorrow it will be equal to 100 years since the creation of the Central Council, 100 years of the Ukrainian National Revolution, 100 years ago. I very much ask all my colleagues to attend tomorrow’s meeting. We'll go to the government in the morning, read the questions, speak to the MPs, and from 12:30 to 2 p.m., it's a formal meeting. The invited distinguished people, the historians who will report, and I ask everyone to come to the meeting tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. and 10 p.m. for the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Irina Heratchenko is available to announce the information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing those national MPs whose property is these announcements that are hanging in the rostrum of the Supreme Council right now. We're all temporary here, and the Supreme Council's premises, you know, have to have respect for him. I'm asking these deputies, the owners, to take these posters and not use the Supreme Council rostrum as a board of their own. Please, the more important it is now before tomorrow's meeting. And let's learn from European institutions, where no national MP allows himself to be treated like this in Parliament. Please take it. If this does not happen, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the apparatus, to remove, please, and to deposit with the Committee of Speakers or the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m1.u108	Colleagues, I want to support this position. The campaign posters should not be on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or even more so when the ceremony is held. So I ask the poster authors to fold it now and tomorrow before the meeting, if the authors don't do so, it will actually have to be done by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. My colleagues, thank you for your work today. It was a difficult day, difficult responsible decisions. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to continue our work, tomorrow's "hour of questioning to the government." At this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. Thank you very much.
