ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Take up jobs. Please come into the hall. So I'd like you to run the registration. Please register. [[10:04:36]] 322 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues, Mikhail Leontoyovich Bondar, a self-defense fighter, a National Guard fighter. Welcome, Michael. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] In Olena Constantine's Condratuk. Helen's not here, but we welcome her. I'm sure she'll join us. And also Michael Ivanovich Lanja. Let's welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! The U.S. Senate approved and referred to the President's draft U.S. Budget Act 2018, which calls for national defence, which provides $350 million to provide security assistance to Ukraine. And on behalf of all the people's deputies, I thank the American colleagues for their support. You remember we signed an agreement between the United States Congress and the Ukrainian Parliament. And I'm convinced that U.S. President Donald Trump will sign the defense budget, and this will be an important step in our cooperation and victory over the Russian aggressor. Thank our colleagues. Also today is the International Student Day, and I sincerely welcome all the former and present students with this holiday. Welcome to the students! And today, traditionally, Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman and members of the government are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome them. And we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. I will remind you that we have two speeches: today it will be Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Grigorovich Zubko, as well as the first Deputy Minister of Education and Science Vladimir Vitaliyovich Kovtunec, and then 30 minutes questions to the members of the government. And I'm announcing the beginning of an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to speak with the Minister of Regional Development, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Hennady Grigorovich Zubka. Please, Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! I would like first of all to start my speech by thanking this composition of the Supreme Council for the decisive breakthrough in the reform of housing and utilities. You know, this week we've practically completed the adoption of those laws that today really need to do two simple tasks. First of all, it's to create the direct capacity of the owners of housing and utilities to be able to manage their property, to account for their services, and the main thing is to pay only for what they really consume. The second step is to reform housing and utilities as far as utilities are concerned and to directly increase energy efficiency in the housing sector. I'd like to show you a little slide where you can see all the normative acts adopted today by the Supreme Council that were developed in the government and that are needed today with the Supreme Council, with experts, with associations directly to implement in order that directly legislative changes and normative acts of the government can benefit our Ukrainian families. I would like to point out once again that the Energy Efficiency Fund Act, the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act, the Housing and Utilities Act, 417 the Common Property Act is the same package of laws that allows for direct movement and towards the creation of a joint owner, and towards the reform of housing and utilities. A very important law adopted by the Supreme Council is also the Commercial Accounting Act, which gives clear direction and responsibility to supply companies to set up house counters and allow our citizens to pay directly for energy consumption rather than a statutory one that was 25 years old and did not directly give us the quality of services. What I'd like to say is that you can see the next slide, where virtually five basic laws solve these issues and what we need to do next. And then the situation is very simple. Implementation of normative acts that are practically interlinked. It's also a question of setting up counters, it's a question of the relationship between suppliers and consumers, it's a possibility of ownership management, it's a possibility of hiring a manager who will directly provide services to his residents and establish relationships with service providers. This is about energy efficiency, because today we're launching a huge market that we think has 30 billion euros in potential over the next 30. 10 years. What is important to us? That the state today, by creating an energy efficiency fund that has to achieve a very simple goal, provides financial and technical support, both through "heat credits", and through the creation of an energy efficiency fund, which has to achieve a very simple goal: to enable the owner to analyse the condition of the house, to give recommendations, to give a route map, to launch an energy market, to launch an energy service market, to provide financial support to both the OSBB and the joint owners, and by carrying out such very difficult tasks, we will be able to go over to save the direct amount of energy consumed in the houses up to 50 percent. It's a very difficult problem, but it's completely understood, it's completely simple, and this is the path that all European countries that are now consuming twice, three times and four times less energy to ensure quality living directly in European families. And we hope that you and I will go through this very level of consumption, and that this quality of service is in our Ukrainians. What else have we done to strengthen the ability, on the one hand, of supply companies, on the other hand, to protect our inhabitants? We have adopted with you this year Law 7030, which allows you to restructure the debt that has accumulated over 25 years, and these struggles to restructure for 5 years, thus enabling you to support local self-government to account for its debts, to secure the current payment of consumption energy, and, most importantly, to allow you to write down fines and pennies that have been accrued all these years, and to impose a great financial burden not only on utilities, not only on local budgets, but also directly on the services and services of our residents. I'd like to point out that right now you're going to look at the slide, where you clearly see the numbers, what the law is. Next, please give me a slide. Which is what Law 1730 opens the way to practically paying off 14.7 billion dollars in debt, which have been burdened all these years practically on our shoulders, I wouldn't say utilities, they've been burdened on our citizens, on our consumers. And today, practically when we move on restructuring, we have the ability of 8.7 billion to restructure by 5 years, and with the execution of restructuring graphs, it's practical to write off 6 billion debt from utilities that were accounted for, but the corresponding source of repayment was not directly in this direction in enterprises. Once again, I would like to point out that perhaps the national MPs have gone undetected, but a very important decision made by the government on the first stage of the monetaryisation of subsidies. For the first time in 25 years, we're moving away from clearing calculations between the Naftogaz supply company and the state budget. We're cleaning up that cash gap, when the utilities are directly providing services, we should harmonize protocols, run through government agencies, and prove that they should receive subsidies in the form of debt dependency subsidies for Naftogazu on tax debts and all the other debts that they have to pay. They were created. This step not only provides the opportunity to clean up cash accounts and to raise living costs for businesses, it enables the energy market to run both gas and electricity because it applies to both water and heat-generating enterprises. This market can be accessed directly by other gas suppliers, other electricity suppliers, thus launching the gas market, thus launching the electricity market and creating competition for the consumer. This is the point where once again I emphasize that market relations are not only between consumers and monopolies, but also between energy suppliers and the state. This is a very important first step for us because the next step we see directly monetaryization at the level of households, and this is a question that will allow us to solve the first priority problem. That amount of subsidies that the state spends on a yearly basis, which is practically 70 billion this year, will allow some of the saved subsidies to be channelled as investments in energy efficiency. This will allow us not to lose money every year, but to return them to modernization, to energy-efficient measures, directly for our citizens. What's very important is what I'd like to point out and what's different about this hot season than the last 25. Three years later, the Supreme Council, the President, the government, the Prime Minister, pursued a policy of decentralization. It started in 2015 with the issue of financial decentralization. An unprecedented increase in local budgets. This year we're already seeing the implementation of local budgets at 170 billion, that's already plus 35 billion, compared to last year, this year. This means that today local self-government is strengthened by the ability to provide quality services, including housing for its residents. And it is very important for us to have responsibility with money, with authority. Because it is very important for us to implement, directly, local self-government, primarily, the quality, stability of life-support systems and then to implement those strategies that the community adopts, infrastructure development, social building, cultural and tourism projects that are in every area. And so once again, I stress that adopted laws, they're very important, they can clearly show how to move the owner, how to modernize the utilities directly, and, most importantly, how do local governments, with opportunities and budgets, enhance the quality of services directly at their own level. Another bill that we're waiting for in the Supreme Council is to protect the investment capacity of direct utilities. We've already introduced it to Parliament, a law that allows you to change the supply of heat and protect the investment components from the international financial organizations that are being implemented today by the projects and the World Bank and the European and Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development by our enterprises. And also a very important decision that was made in the government is the idea of reforming the delivery of urban areas and communities. We understand that technology is developing today, and we realize that today local self-government can further introduce not only the modernization of existing thermal and water-supply companies, but also maybe by introducing new technologies, to make a new system of providing quality services to residents. So we and the local authorities offered to look again at the heating system, the water supply system. Maybe we can go to another system where we can partially give up using gas to produce energy where we need to, install boiler roofs where we need to, install district and quarterly heating, and thus move on to a new, modern, quality service delivery. And for us, it's also very important that right in this direction we already have the first examples, where there are whole cities that are giving up centralized heating, replacing it with alternative energy sources, and district heating. This was last year in the Dnipropetrovsk region and Marganese, and Pochrovsk, and Nicopol. This year we have examples of the city of Kamyanec-Podilski moving completely from the supply of thermal energy to alternative sources of energy. You and I have adopted amendments to the Heat Act, which enables us to provide and produce heat not only from gas but also from alternative sources of energy. And to make it clear that the cost of providing such a service depends not only on gas, but on the use of alternative energy sources that are in every area. So, directly, as we go in this direction again and again, we emphasize the responsibilities, directly, of local self-government after delivery, first and foremost, of quality service. I wanted cities and communities to have zoos, dolphinariums, fountains, but first of all, I wanted to point out that the funds the State provides should be directed to the constant provision of life - support systems. What is important to us? What's direct when we have 100 percent population accounts today, 110 percent, 120 percent of the services consumed, sending 70 billion to subsidies and benefits, allowing for a difference in tariffs, allowing debt restructuring, is that we want people to receive timely quality services, including heat. At the same time, I would like to point out that when we see cases where the temperature regime is being broken, when the heating systems are inoperable, I would like to point out that this will be followed by direct responsibility as managers of enterprises that should provide this service in time, as well as the heads of local self-government bodies that should be required under the Law on. Article 13 on local self - government bodies that, according to the Law on Heat, should not only coordinate, but also be responsible for the timely provision of quality services. We have just seen that the Cherkas region (City of Smila), the Hmelnitsk region (City of Shepetovka), the Kyiv region (Yagotin, and Cotsubinsk), with a population of 110, 120 percent, with the funds they received in their accounts through financial decentralization, did not, unfortunately, in time for such inflammation. Appropriate appeals to the district attorneys were made by local authorities, local authorities. And we want to see who and how he failed to fulfill his responsibilities in time to provide quality service to his people. Once again, it is very important for us not to be hostages directly or indirectly in political opposition or ineffective use.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u3	Please, one minute, because the MPs are still trying to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u4	And for us, it's very important that directly when we see 22 million in the accounts directly in the city, when we see that there's no ignition just for in-time gas calculations, and the state together with the district council is looking for 700 000, and it's alloting 1 million 700 to start this heating, I think that directly with the law enforcement agencies we're going to get to the specific responsibility, the personal responsibility of each manager or enterprise, or directly the local self-government body that's inopportunistically started to do this and put our residents at risk of direct health first. Once again, I would like to point out that we now have a very important reform of decentralization, a reform of thermal supply, a reform of housing and utilities, and here a joint work to be done at all levels. But first of all, we want our Ukrainians to get them in good time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, for your report. And now I now invite you, my distinguished colleagues, the first Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Vladimir Kovtuntz, to report. And then we'll move on to government questions. Mr. Kovtunec.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u6	Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! Taking advantage of the opportunity, the Ministry of Education and Science from this rostrum welcomes our students with a holiday and wishes everyone the highest achievements – scientific, educational, sporting, artistic in the glory of our Ukraine. Excuse me. In view of the fact that the government has increased academic and social scholarships by 18 percent since November 1, let me report on the quantitative and qualitative changes that have taken place during this year in the scholarship system of our students. Here's the next slide. So in the following diagrams you can see scholarships, the size of scholarships in 2016, the size of scholarships until 1 November of this year and after 1 November of this year and what will continue next. So the scholarship, of course, is now worth 1,000 300 dollars, which is the scholarship that students get, as we used to call it, the VZI II-IV level of accreditation -- universities and academics. Next slide. For highly deficient specialties, where there was a low competition, young people with low secondary education, the scholarship is elevated, and now it exceeds 1,000,600 bracelets in such specialties. Next slide. The increased academic capacity for such highly deficient specialties amounts to nearly 2.5 thousand dollars. I'm going to remind you that this includes scholarships for students who are studying in science and physics sciences, as well as a series of natural and technical specialties. Next slide. Social scholarships, I'll show you, for example, different degrees. I'll show you how the orphans' scholarships have changed. Now the orphan children's scholarship is over two thousand and 300 dollars. And it's not the only payment for orphans, it's still getting extra money for getting textbooks. Here's the next slide. And the highest category are the participants and winners of the international substantive Olympics, who receive the President's scholarships. This year, the winners of the international Olympics receive a scholarship of up to 3,000 dollars. All of it. Let's see the next slide. In general, today's coverage of academic scholarships is 45 percent of the total number of students who study at the expense of the state budget -- more than 310,000 students who study under the programmes of a junior specialist, a bachelor and a master. The academic increase in this number is more than 12 percent, it's not just the difference, it's the ones who are in the lead position by the success rating, it's much more than they had in 2016. Social scholarships are given to 49.5,000 students, spending more than 60 million dollars a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u7	Excuse me for a second. Honorary colleagues, according to the Rules, are prohibited from placing posters in the Supreme Council. [[Noise Nodes]] I would like to reiterate, under the current Rules, the placement of any banners and posters in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is prohibited. That's why I'm asking you to remove the poster. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u8	Thank you. So I want to report that the new scholarship policy has led to some results. In 16 years, we all resented the fact that the minimum passing point on individual courses, especially teaching specialties, was very low, which did not guarantee the quality of teacher training, especially natural disciplines, mathematics and information. Thanks to the increase in these scholarships, the next slide, please show you that in all of the classrooms we have a significant increase in this minimum pass point. If you look at the average ball of those who qualify for these specialties, it's going to be even higher. So the fellowship encouragement that we've put in place will improve the quality of teacher training, and it'll work very well for the introduction of the ideas of the new Ukrainian school. Next slide. Now, a brief summary that has changed over 16 years. The scholarship security that worked for 16 years, first of all, stimulated overestimation. Because that university where there were more good guys, students who didn't have threes, he got more money for scholarships. And each rector was interested in raising those grades. Scholarships are now assigned separately by each course, by every specialty, and regardless of the rating scale, 45 percent receive scholarships. Of these, 12 percent are raised, the better learners. The old system was unfair about the quality of the educational process. We've had a lot of examples where, in high-quality education, it's about math schools, it's about a lot of engineering schools, because of the high-sensitivity of teachers, these students got a much lower percentage of scholarships than they get now. And finally, if, over the past few years, the cost of academic scholarships was included in the total cost of education and counted as the cost of educational services, then academic scholarships are now being followed by a separate budget programme, and we are thus dividing the costs of obtaining educational services and supporting our better students. Next slide. What do we plan to do next fiscal year? Prepared draft regulations to expand the list of specialties that will be followed by higher scholarships, including plans to include chemistry. And the second is to extend the rights of higher education institutions in the assignment of scholarships. We really have small groups that have up to 10 students, these are usually master education programs where the best students come to, and they actually all deserve to get scholarships. And so this percentage of 45, it's going to extend to the entire education facility, but not to separate faculties, not to separate specialties. And finally, let me parallelly remind you of one problem that the ministry has quite a moment. Over the years, we can't start the full work of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. Without such an independent agency, we are in the gray area of the Bologna Process. And if we don't run this agency, we risk falling out of the Bologna process, it'll put a stop to our European integration into higher education. We had an agreed position with the committee. Unfortunately, when the Education Act was passed, the Supreme Council did not support our agreed position, and now we have a new agency-forming procedure. We've done everything that's been laid down, all the powers that are placed on the Ministry. We have to form a competition commission, with 5 representatives of Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens and 4 representatives of international organisations, European organisations. We're ready for any dialogue, for constructive cooperation, but we've asked very much to keep this process from being blocked so that Ukraine doesn't lose its European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Guys, I'm asking you to take off the poster again. I hope that there will be no posters in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to understand and comply with all the general rules. So I ask again. And now I'm asking everyone to prepare for an interview with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Everybody ready? Please record and log in. Please. So the question is given by Boyko Oleni Petrovni. Please, Mrs. Helena, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Burbaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u11	Mr. Prime Minister, this week we voted in favour of the budget for the following year, which provides for funding and national security and defence, financing all the reforms that have been implemented in this Parliament this fall, is foreseen for financing the renovation of capital road construction and many more. But we have heard some allegations from political forces that have never voted or voted in favour of the budget, with the unforeseeable support of local self - government, united territorial communities, and support for the decentralization process. Please tell us how the 2018 budget provides support for decentralization and the creation of united territorial communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u12	First of all, I would like to thank all the 260 national deputies who supported the first reading of the draft budget for 2018. I think it's a testimony to the very quality of our cooperation. For several months we worked on the bill itself. And it's very convincing that we're going to take all the constructive proposals of the people's deputies for the second reading, and in the first decade, by December 10, we have a chance to have the budget in common with you for the first time in order for everyone to get absolutely predictable into the new fiscal year. Now, with regard to the questions that have been heard in this room, I call them soft — unconstructive or false. Let's start with decentralization. Decentralization in this draft law is completely preserved and developed and no one is going to stop it. I would like to point out that in 2014, as Prime Minister of Ukraine in the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk, I began to engage in substantive decentralization. Arsenius Yatsenuk, when prime minister, fully supported decentralization and provided the necessary and political and practical support. Then, after the election of the President, the President has also set this extremely important priority for himself, which is the priority of decentralization. So all that happened in the decentralization is our acquisition with you: the acquisition of the Peter Poshenko faction, the People's Front, the radical faction of Oleg Layashka, the Rebirth Group, the will of the people, who supported the non-fractional people's MPs, and that's an absolutely clear fact. So all we have in decentralization is our work, which we haven't done in the first year. And no one will give anyone the right and the opportunity to destroy decentralization. And what I hear in this room is sometimes that decentralization stops, that decentralization will not, in principle, speak to most of them the same people who in 2015 were definitely against decentralization, and today they're trying to impose fairy thoughts on us. That is why we supported and will support local self - government, decentralization. This is reflected in the budget for the following year. And I want to assure all authorities of local self-government that 100 percent as Prime Minister is committed to continuing the process of decentralization and strengthening the position of local self-government in Ukraine. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u13	Thank you. Now two of the next national deputies, Sobolev and Krulko, pass the word for Rybchin's question. And please give me two minutes to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u14	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. First of all, I welcome all the students to the student's day and I want to inform the hall that we have students from the displaced higher education institutions of Donetskina, Luhanskina and Crimea on the balcony. Let's give them a round of applause.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u15	Let's say hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u16	They are learning under very difficult conditions, but they are studying in Ukraine and will have a Ukrainian future with Ukrainian diplomas. A question to the distinguished Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question about how your government will survive the winter in energy when the de facto energy regulator loses its mandate in a week. A lot of companies can't get a solution because Mr. Wolf can't get a quorum. Mr. Gypsyenko, who is called Grigorisin, who is to be rotated, suddenly became ill, and his week is no longer at work. The green investment and the green tariffs of Canadians, Swedes, EBRD, are very many big problems. And I'm asking you to influence this, to influence the President, who has to assign two people to the rotational commission. The Supreme Council did it, the government did it, the President didn't do it, and he put on all the energy that's going on in winter without a functioning regulator. That's the first question. The second question I have to ask is, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Zubk, the question is about energy efficiency. You know that the government has allocated only 600 million dollars for energy efficiency this year and last year, subsidies are 60 billion. Now there's a movement in Ukraine, 1 percent of the subsidies, 1 percent of the GDP has to go not to subsidies, but to energy efficiency in order to increase the level of protection of people, in order to increase the rate of economic development, in order to create jobs, so that people can lower their payments. And now there's a climate summit in Bonn, from what's been introduced, there are government officials, and national deputies, I just came back from it. Green Development is taking big steps around the world. The development of electric cars, and we have large deposits of lithium, we have to develop the green sector of the economy, and energy efficiency is that. But in an out-of-work regulator all our doing business, they just crash.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I just want to say that you're right about the fact that actually the regulator's work, which is independent of the government, is that his independence doesn't give me the ability to organize their work in any way at all. It is no longer effective for a variety of reasons, including the imperfections of the regulator’s own procedures. You know that the government has decided to delegate its candidate to a competition commission. I will certainly ask the President to consider this issue and to take the necessary steps to stabilize the work of the commission, and I think it is in the power of the President. What about the heating season? I want to tell you that I'm used to it, and our team is used to working in force majeure, and in extreme situations. And I want to assure all of the Ukrainians that we are going to go through a perfectly normal winter, the country is ready, the energy supply at the right level, including natural gas, and there are, of course, problems in providing the necessary solutions by the regulator. But I think that we will find a solution, if necessary, to appeal to the Ukrainian Parliament to make the necessary changes to legislation that will enable me to influence this process. And what about energy conservation? You're absolutely right, on the first reading, we only put 400 million on the State Energy Efficiency Fund that we created with you, and 400 million plus on warm loans. I think that's not enough, and we basically predicted that in the first reading, but it was a discussion. Now we think we're going to increase funding according to the budget and the figures that will allow us to balance it up to the second reading. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u18	Thank you. The question is given by Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. And Zubko, yes, I'm sorry, there were two more questions, Zubko will answer, and then I'll give the word to Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! I thank you so much for supporting energy efficiency, energy conservation. I would also like to add to the Prime Minister's words what we need, except that we also have support in the state budget for the next year and the "warm" loans, and the fund financing of the Energy Efficiency Fund, and the support of the European Union. You know that this week there was a visit by European Commissioner Johannes Khan to the country. And directly with his team, we worked out the route map, how we keep moving. Because at the beginning of December a decision should be taken by the European Union on the five-year support of the Energy Efficiency Fund and the first financial assistance directly to the Fund. To do this, we need to meet several conditions: firstly, the adoption of the statute, the adoption of the financial activity directions of the fund and the manner in which funds are used from the State budget. But I would like to point out that the constant funding of the fund is our joint work. And you know, I'm against, for example, one percent of the funding from subsidies to the fund. Why not two, not three, not five, not ten percent? I think we need directly to introduce further monetaryization of subsidies that will allow saved amounts of subsidies of 70 billion, directly, in those buildings where modernization is carried out, to channel the return to the Energy Efficiency Fund and to convert them from investment spending. And so directly this is our joint work, and I invite the people's deputies to implement the normative acts. And that's the main thing, supported by the constant funding of the fund, so that our citizens can see the route map not by one, not by two years, but by five, 10 years, how our country will change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u20	Thank you. So the answer is complete. And, please, instead of Timoshenko, Igor Lapin, turn on the microphone for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u21	Good afternoon! I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, look, we're all statesmen with you, and we need to think that for all citizens of Ukraine there are the same rules. I'm in favour of all citizens using the same rules, and I'm definitely against the notion of introduction, of moving goods to separate areas. Now I want to draw your attention to the Zakarpatsk region, and we have this Mr. Hennaday Moskal who allows himself to issue decrees on the Carpathians who live there. We have Gennady Moskal looking at how we have flags of other states hanging in the state institutions of Ukraine. I don't understand. Do we have or don't we? Of course, it's the President's creation, the appointment of the head of the district government, and yet we have the first results of secession. Today we know that already the Hungarian vice-premier has declared the Hungarians' right to autonomy. We're going to join the Zacarpathian People's Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u22	Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. We are a democratic unitary country, and no one should allow himself to go beyond existing legislation, as if the position of one or another person had a name. I now address your address to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Policy to find out more about this. If you need to ask the President to settle this matter, I will. And now, honourable colleagues, about turning different governments of different countries to Ukraine. In particular, when we heard about the language law, the Education Act, where there's a language aspect, I talked about it, and repeatedly, we're a tolerant democratic country, we fully support and ensure the rights of national minorities. But it should be remembered that it is Ukraine and our native language is Ukrainian, and it needs the respect and respect of all Ukrainian citizens. [[Applause]] And we're not going to let anyone talk to us like a big European 45 million countries in a ton of blackmail. This should be our common position: both to Parliament, to the President, and to the government. I'm stressing that, and we're going to stand up for that. [[Applause]] We are friendly, democratic, but respect us because we respect all our other friends, partners and neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u24	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich, for your firm stand. And now the question is given to Alexandre Vasilovich Revega, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u25	Good afternoon. Vladimir Borisovich, a question to you. In September, there was a large hailstorm in the town of Berdichev in the region. There's a positive decision today, a government committee order, and I'm asking you to speed up the allocation of funds for Burditchev and the Burditch region, because there are hospitals, gardens, schools -- ceilings, rain -- so that we can, by New Year's time, repair. A big request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. I know. Thank you for asking. I know your personal position on this matter, I know that you have made a great effort to have this problem resolved in your district, for which you are grateful. We do. First Deputy Prime Minister Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba has taken care of this issue, and at the next government meeting, he will make proposals to resolve this situation. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u27	The question is given to Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister! Our team meets people both in villages and in cities, and the first key question that comes from Ukrainian citizens: how can we survive on a copier's salary, on a copier's pension, on how to feed our family, on how to feed our children, on how to heal? That's what concerns Ukrainian citizens, which means we're concerned because we stand here in Parliament and all the interests of Ukrainian citizens. That's why I'm telling people what we're trying to do, and we're having lengthy consultations with you about increasing the minimum wage. The 3700 budget for the following year is not enough, it is an unfair salary, because it does not allow people to meet their needs. Two days ago, you and I had a long discussion during the night about raising the minimum wage. The requirement of the Radical Party team is 5,000 dollars a month's minimum wage. I ask you to tell the government's plans on how you're going to raise Ukrainian incomes: wages, pensions, living standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Thank you for asking. You know, I really appreciate that you have such a very stable position in terms of the development of the national economy, and in principle, we don't have to do anything about it, because, in large accounts, we don't have big differences in that. Because Parliament, you personally consider it a priority for the development of the national economy, and for me it is also an extremely important priority for the economy to develop, to grow, to have people pay, to have budgets, as a result of financing the pension system, and so on. If we're talking over a year and a half, we've managed to take a number of important steps that have become possible, because the last few years have been a lot of tough measures to stabilize the situation in the economy. We had a 17 percent drop just recently. These fairy tales can tell, there's been a fall by the nominal one, now the growth by the other. Listen, everybody knows that Ukraine's economy has started to grow, but that's not enough. It's not enough for people to feel in themselves, well, faster changes in the quality of their lives. That's why we have to make timely decisions with you. The central budget, the necessary economic laws to enable us to make not 3.2 percent of the increase in the national economy next year, but more than 5 percent, I think it's absolutely real because of sectoral support, through reforms, through changes. And this will enable us to raise and pay, including the average wage, and pensions, and to stabilize prices in the middle of the country, to ensure health and other health reforms that affect the quality of life of people. And I am deeply convinced that we are completely united here. And so, let me stress, the development of the national economy, we need to achieve a growth of more than 5 percent next year. All the success we can achieve in economic growth, we have to convert or reinvest in the new medical system, in the new education system. We have to invest in raising living standards for Ukrainian citizens and modernizing the country, including its capital repairs. So we're going to need your support in adopting the necessary laws for the development of the national economy. And believe me, every possibility we have, we're implementing it with you to make people live better in Ukraine. The only goal, the only ambition, is for people to live better, and that, dear friends, in our power with you, we must do so. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u30	Thank you. The question is given to Saul. Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u31	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, a forced, respected Vladimir Borisovich, is forced to address you personally because, unfortunately, previous appeals to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance have been ignored. I had a critical salary in the district, a critical pay situation for medical workers. In particular, only the advance was paid for September in the Svetienne region, and in the Kosovo region the salary was paid only for September, and in the Upper Province yesterday only the advance was paid for October. The situation is similar to that of a technologist. That's why, Vladimir Borisovich, I'm asking your personal attention to correct the situation with immediate funding for budget workers. And the second question she asked my colleague, Oksana Jurinec, is about registering tax notes and problems that business is facing in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u32	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u33	Oksana Jurinec asked for questions about the registration of tax receipts and the registration of these tax notes, since today the budget owed to enterprises amounts to over 10 billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u34	I can tell you what the Minister of Finance heard. As a minister of health, she heard. You will be instructed to settle this matter immediately. And avoid such problems. Because, in principle, there is no objective basis for doing so. And you know, I talk about it all the time. What you have to do is get to every area completely, see where the problems are, and these problems help solve them. So please, Your Honor, it is your direct responsibility to do and report to me and to inform the Ukrainian National Deputy. Thank you. As far as VAT is concerned. Guys, this is a very delicate question. You and I broke the system, broke a corrupt system that existed in the country for over 20 years. Reimbursement of VAT for bribes. All the business in the country was getting VAT back for bribes. We broke it. And today the whole business says, 99 percent of what they get in time, in quality, in full volume and without any bribe requirements. As far as blocking is concerned. Blocks the automatic system. And Minfin and the DFS are constantly correcting this system to lead her work to automation. But I want to warn everyone, dear colleagues, that we don't use these technical, maybe the problems that are 0.1 percent, to give someone a chance to break the existing system and restore the old system. We won't return the old system. We've destroyed the old system and we'll come to every such scheme in the country and we'll destroy it to make business flourish, revive and develop. If there are specific cases, please allow me to assign a mandate to the Minister of Finance, together with the management of the DFS, to consider them. If there are methodical recommendations, let's count. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Danieline gives the floor to Kodola. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u36	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, today that we are considering the state budget, when we have adopted medical reform, I would like to raise an important question regarding the payment of medical workers. And today, there is a situation that, as a result of the increase in minimum wage (we welcome any increase in wages), but there has been a difference in actuality, there is no difference in the salaries of younger health workers, middle health workers and doctors. In fact, doctors today receive the same minimum wage as nurses. Of course, it reflects any desire of young doctors to work in medical institutions. And today we have a risk of losing a whole generation of our young educated doctors. So I'd like to ask the government today and the Ministry of Finance to review the size of the tariff grid to the side of the increase in the pay-as-you-go rate of our medical institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u37	Thank you so much for asking, it's very important. You know, the step we've taken to raise the minimum wage -- unprecedentedly twice -- is unprecedented for our country. It wasn't a step to make someone's salary work out, it was a step to combat poverty and a step towards detining their wages. With regard to wage increases for health workers. We are really planning such an increase, but a more effective increase can be made when we have already launched a health reform that has been approved by the Ukrainian Parliament, for which I am very grateful. This means the only thing that's already on the ground floor, at the level of family medicine, we'll be able to introduce system changes in 2018 that will prove and allow you to increase wages. Of course, a Ukrainian doctor is to receive a decent salary. But I'm always saying that we've had a lot of lost opportunities. In 2004, Ukrainian President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma handed over more than 10 percent to the government in 2004-2005. This should have been the case in 2014 that we were so weak that we didn't have anything to pay, we didn't have anything to supply military equipment. And now our task is to change this situation, to develop the economy, to make Ukraine successful and strong. That's our job. In one day we can't solve this, we need time and perseverance, and unity in this room, including what we're showing, look at how much we've made up our minds for this fall. Now we have two more years together before the next parliamentary election. We have to bring the country to the next parliamentary elections with a steady growth in the economy, with rising social standards, with higher wages, with normal roads, with energy efficiency, with our independence. These are our tasks. So believe me, we're going to be touched by you, including the quality of life of citizens, which is going to change to a better side and to a higher social standard. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone, please. It's a goblin instead of a goblin. Instead? Yeah, her next. Please, Jolobecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u39	Deputy Zholobecki, city of Mikolayev, 129th district Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I address you on behalf of the four hundred employees of the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant. It's a former factory of 61 commies. The people were forced to cover the route three days ago. People are desperate. For the past three years, they have not been paid. Payables for today have reached nearly 60 million. I'll tell you what happened today at 61 factories hasn't been in years. All of our references to the Ucroborprom concert do not produce any results. So, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, I want your personal intervention to give these people an answer to shipbuilders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u40	Please, 30 seconds. Give it a chance to finish Jolobecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u41	Vladimir Borisovich, and there's a situation with the Ukrainian cruiser. Over the past few years, these shipbuilders have been serving our cruiser, Ukraine. They don't get paid for it. So I ask you to solve the question of the future fate of this cruiser, as well as the wages of the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. Part one is people's wages. The company belongs to the concert "Ucrobronprom". I think there's got to be some resources in the Ucroborprom to solve this problem and pay off the debt. I'm going to go to Ucroborprom myself to get them to settle this issue. They make money, and they forget how to pay people. I'll remind them of that. That's the first one. Second position: the corvette. Excuse me, cruiser, excuse me. Sorry, it's a cruiser built by Ukrainians. And we were forced to make decisions under various sauces to allow this cruiser to be sold. Guys, I'm next door. Close to this topic, I think it's a corrupt scheme, trying to sell this cruiser for scrap metal. We don't know where they're going to sell it, where the middlemen are going, where it's going to be, where it's going to be, where it's going to be. I'll never give up on these adventures. So we went to the National Security and Defence Council, this is military technology, which means that the issue should be examined in detail with the appropriate services and made a decision for the Ukrainian government, and we will consider how to proceed with this warship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u43	Thank you. Maxim Burbak gives the floor to Sergey Visock. Sergey High, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u44	Good afternoon. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your efforts to combat corruption in the Dergeocadastre. But I'd like to draw attention to this fact, and we've all seen how the Dergeocadaster leadership has been effectively addressed. But what I'm saying is that this is where Ludmila Schemelinec still works, she's a member of the Party of Regions, she represented Yanukovitch in court, she worked with Mr. Timchenko, who's sitting in Moscow right now, and in fact, she's following all of the corruption schemes that were developed back in Janukovich's day. In particular, I have a warrant number, number 328 from 15.10.2014, which makes it impossible for the attachés to get land because the Dergeocadastr requires additional documents from them, it's a big problem, and I want you to get rid of it. And one more question from my colleague, Vadim Podobrazjak, was not able, unfortunately, to get the word. This is the case with the First-Majian City Hospital, where the debt for the salary amounted to 3 million 400.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u45	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u46	Thank you. According to my colleague, 8 million of you divided the local budget to pay off these debts, and the central budget was only 600,000 dollars. So I understand that the request is that you pay attention to this, and yet it was an adequate response to the payments to our doctors in Pervomaysk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u47	Thank you very much. As far as the geocadastrom is concerned, I want everyone to hear me. Covering up inefficiencies, corruption, abuse, pressure on people or entrepreneurs, I will not, on the contrary, fight this phenomenon. Unfortunately, I don't have a lot of authority, but I will find the means to bring every such leader to justice, if there's any need for Parliament, I will turn to you with this. We're now working to find a high-quality leader for such a serious structure that he has a high degree of trust, this leader, to provide him with all the support and let him release those you said and others. This is going to be a question for the manager, this is question number one, including changing the system itself, the manager has to deal with it. And now, as far as the land is concerned, for the participants in the ATO. I support both hands to give land to ATO participants. In the summer, the government decided to restrict and make it impossible to simply issue land under cover, including this direction. Now all the land is offered exclusively at auctions, it's a very important element that needs to be kept, that needs to be maintained. If there are specific cases, tell them that we are publicizing them so that we are not ashamed to look into people’s eyes. As far as wages are concerned. Normatively, it is one for all around the country, and this is how the standard is calculated, including the subsidy. And I understand when it comes to high-rise or mountain areas where there's a problem of accessibility and so on, I get it, and we'll support it, we'll fix it. But when it comes to cities where there are opportunities in principle, there is only one answer, probably the very structure of the health organization is neither adequate nor objective, and it needs more money than it even needs. That is why it is primarily a matter of creating a new health system where such problems arise. Because thousands of Ukrainian cities have no such problems at all, they properly organize the system, they properly allocate their expenses. I've already said this once, which came into existence in one institution of debt, debt on salary, and started to look at why. But because the highest management has set itself a cloudy wage, and they have given people a penny. That's not acceptable. And so, I'd say, the twisting in places or the twist in places, that's what we have to deal with. Of course, your questions, your questions, your colleagues ’ questions, will be taken for consideration, and we will find out what the real problem is. There may be other problems that need to be solved, and we are always ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is up. But now I have received a statement from two factions: the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction. And they're willing to replace it not even for a full performance, but for a question, one minute. Irina Sisoyenko. And that will be the last question, Mr. Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Last Friday at a government meeting, you promised to solve the problem of health workers, health - care section 14, in the city of Smilly, and to pay off the debt that exists at the health care facility under the pay-for-work fund for 11 months. I thank you for your active position and ask the government to inform you what has been done during this week, how this problem will be resolved, when it will be resolved, and when funds from the state budget will arrive at the Smile Medical Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. In fact, on Wednesday we took orders to further finance this facility, and now all formal procedures are under way. I am obliged by the Ministry of Health to simply inform you at specific times when all these wires will be paid. But my point is that this is directly the fault of the local authorities in Smila. They had to prevent it, they had to prevent it, they didn't have to make the decentralization decision they made. So actually, I think I've turned to the law enforcement system, I'll count on the answer to be adequate. And, of course, we won't leave people in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u51	Thank you. And I invite the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u52	Thank you. Mr. President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, for your questions. We always openly come to participate in Parliament's work and give answers, and get your attention on some of the issues that we then take into account in our work. Thank you for your cooperation and for your support. I also want to thank you for the decision we made yesterday, 312 votes, constitutional majority, which will protect the Ukrainian business. I travel in regions, meet people, and meet business representatives. The first question they have is the press release of the law enforcement system. We talked law enforcement personnel into saying that we shouldn't do that, that we should do something different. They nod one of my heads, and then they do something completely different. The law will put a dot in this regard. I am deeply convinced that soon his President will sign. I felt it was my duty to have this law worked, Minjust worked, Paul Petrenko, the Ministry of Internal Affairs worked, Arsen Avakov, worked as a businessman, and his Office of Investments, which we created under the government. We worked with you, and so did associations. It is the right law that restores respect for Ukrainian entrepreneurs. So, here's what I'm saying. First of all, thank you very much for your support and thank you to the Head of the Supreme Council, who did everything yesterday to ensure that this law is considered and passed, to Andrew Cosemykin, and to the committee that adopted it very quickly and gave no one the opportunity to make any adjustments that would make it worthless. And I would now like to address all the law enforcement officers of the country in your presence. Friends, all those who protect Ukrainian citizens, we respect, support and protect. All those who defend our independence in the east of the country, too. All those who, at night, I mean operas, investigators, solve serious, serious crimes, we respect you and we will raise wages, we will do everything we can to ensure that you are properly secured, quality so that they have respect for society. But this will depend only on your actions and your attitude toward Ukrainian citizens. But I emphasize, and I want to be heard in every corner of Ukraine. Dear law enforcement officers, those who carry the drive and have business control, I urge you to speak with business today on "you" and with respect. That's the first one. And if you don't understand this and you're going to press business, we're going to go to every corner of the country and we're going to bring you to responsibility, public responsibility. Business, entrepreneurs eventually have to get due respect from the state and, most importantly, from the law enforcement system. So I wanted everyone to hear this, and I would ask you to bring it to every corner of Ukraine. Economics, entrepreneurs have respect for the state. That's how it's gonna be from now on. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u53	Thank you very much. The year of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the Government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine for participating in our meeting, and wish them success and new victories for Ukraine. Thank you, guys! And the girls. Happy birthday! Colleagues, therefore, we also have a large number of questions, and there is also an examination of the answers to the requests of Ukrainian national deputies. And in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations on Friday, we have to read the questions, the announcement of the questions. Questions will first be announced, and then answers will be considered to the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the most responsible part of today's meeting. And I'm starting to read the questions. So Victor Razwadsa to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Žitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the House of Culture of the village of Hivlovy Lubarsky district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of an ambulance to the Roma community in the region of Rome. But we have two more questions to ask the President of Ukraine at the outset and, with your permission, I give the floor to Irina Heratchenko, First Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, there is disturbing information that the minister has entered the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is that true or not? If the minister is in the hall, he has to leave the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, where? None. Disinformation, anxiety is being removed and we're going to read the queries. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, now, as the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has informed us, when we consider requests to the President, we have to give a name vote in support of the question. Thus, Victoria’s request to the President of Ukraine for delay in signing the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on corporate agreements (register. No.4470), adopted on 23 March 2017 and addressed to the President of Ukraine on 3 April 2017. I ask you to vote in favour of this request. Colleagues, please. [[11:17:24]] For-49 He doesn't get the support he needs. According to the Rules, they approach the end of the session until they have the potential of 150 and then 226. Next is a request from Yuri Pavlenko to the President of Ukraine for the accumulation of negative trends in adoption and the development of family forms of education for orphans and children deprived of parental care; the initiation of the All-U.S. Council on the Protection of the Rights of the Child in situations of armed conflict and complex socio-economic transformations. Please vote. [[11:18:10]] For-51 There is no way to support these requests to the President. And I'm still reading, and I'm continuing to make inquiries. As I understand it, the head of the Supreme Council announced two of Victor Razwadowski, correct? Who's been tracking. Sergio Rybalka to Henprocuror of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice on Corruption and the abolition of representatives of the State Executive Service of the First-Military Ministry of Justice and the First-Maj Department of the HUNP Police in Mikolaiivsk Region. Victor Ostapchuk to the Minister of Social Affairs of Ukraine on pension issues. Sergio Melnika to Henprocuror for the introduction of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office on the side of the Prosecutor's Office (the Quarterly and Exploitation Department of the City of Hmelnicky) during the hearing of the case before the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. Sergey Melnika to the head of the Hmelnice City Council on the technical condition of asphalt concrete covering the road from the Knjižkowitsa microregion to the Hmelnicki Road. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Justice on violations of the work of Arbitral Governor Tarasenko. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv oblivion, head of the Lviv oblivion for the listing of roads to be repaired at the expense of the State Road Fund in 2018, roads within the Busky, Radehivska Kamyanka-Buzki, Brodiv region of the Lviv region. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the unsatisfactory condition of the renovation of the Kyiv Public Education Institute and the "Study-Children's Garden of the Name of Sofia Rusovova". Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister on the threatening level of debt burden on Ukraine's economy as a result of an increase in government debt. Andrija Pomazanova to the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures aimed at repairs within the road by Tykuri Novosilica in the Plain region. Groups of National Deputies (Frees, Ricks, and others) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for activities in the territory of Ukraine of the Russian Centres of Science and Culture. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the provision of legal assistance to Ukrainian citizens who are illegally held hostage in separate areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine (the Autonomy Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol), to citizens who are political prisoners in the territory of the Russian Federation, as well as to members of their families. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate for the risk of the population living in the area of observation of the Prilisn OTG of the Volin region. Anatolia Kuzmenka to head the National Bank of Ukraine for the preservation of the branch of the Kirovograd district office AT "Restoration" in the village of Red Stone of Alexandria in the region of Kirovograd. John Baloga to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the Vilok checkpoint of the Provincial region of Zakarpat. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Road Service in Kiev for the capital repair of the N-02 national road (city of Bila Church – city of Uzin) Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district Vitalia Gudzenka to the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Kyiv region for the allocation of land to the permanent use of the Kyiv Regional Council of the Kiev Olympic Training Centre. Igor Goose before the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the need to improve the government programme "Affordable medicines. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister on the need to amend specific articles of the Ukrainian Budget Code and the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2018. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister for the unskilled decision of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, which endangers the functioning of the emergency health care system, will significantly improve the quality of emergency medical care and will lead to the reduction of health workers. Igor Shurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate lifting of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade order from 26. Ten. In 17th year, No. 1542, "On the Approval of Amendment No. 6 to the National Classifier of Ukraine DK 003-2010", part of which eliminates the post of Fieldsher from medical emergency." Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister, temporarily acting Minister of Health of Ukraine for the prevention of the reduction of medical personnel in the therapeutic department of the Fastian Centre for Primary Health Care. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister, head of the Pension Fund for the protection of the rights to recalculate previously assigned pensions for pensioners who worked in the public service. Groups of Nardeps (Jurinec, Veličkovića, Bondar) to the head of the Regional Office of the Court of Auditors in Lviv, Volinsky, Ivano-Frankovsky and Zakarpatski oblast, the head of the Department of Economic Protection in the Lviv region of the Department of Economics of the National Police of Ukraine for the verification of the use of budgetary resources during the construction of an artificial sports course in the specialized general education school of the I-II district of Brody Lviv. Groups of National Deputies (Jorinec, Veličković, Bondar) to the head of the Regional Office of the Court of Auditors in the Lviv, Volinsky, Ivano-Frankovsky and Zakarpatski areas, the Chief of Economic Protection in the Lviv region of the Department of Economic Protection of the National Police of Ukraine for the verification of the use of district budget funds during the implementation of projects under the Microprojects Regional Competition Programme. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to account for 2018 in the National Budget of Ukraine for the purpose of improving the material and technical base of the Suma District Clinical Hospital of War veterans. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the need for accounting in Ukraine's State Budget for 2018 for a targeted medical subsidy for the Suma region in the total amount of 710 million dollars. Igor Lapin to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Service Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the head of the Zacarpathian ODA, Gennady Moskal and abuse of office. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy on the need to bring legislation into line with the provision of pensions to pensioners in the internal affairs of Ukraine and the military. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the improvement of the pension system of Ukraine, by combining some types of pension payments. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, Head of the Hmelnicka observatija, Director of the State Institute of Otolaringology of Professor Colomaychenk NAMN Ukraine, for the immediate provision of hearing aid to the disabled child. Romana Macola to the head of the Hmelnicka oblasta, the head of the Hmelnicka district council for improving the effectiveness of support and for defining strategic prospects for small business development in the region of Polonski, Shepety, Slavutski. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for organizing Salina's ceremony in the Old Sambir district of Lviv. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of psychological rehabilitation services to participants in hostilities, to disabled persons and to war participants. Constantine Jarinič to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the recalculation of pensions for civil servants and officials of local self - government. Constantine Jarinić to the Prime Minister for inclusion in the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018, expenditure for socio-economic development of the Poznańka Kyrovograd region. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Finance for the allocation of 3 million dollars for the capital repair of the therapeutic and surgical department of the Ljubljana City Hospital in the city of Ljubotin Kharkiv district. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the award in 2018 to the Lubotin City Council of the Kharkiv Region of funds totaling 7 million 200 000 dollars for subsidies from the State budget for the capital repair of the house of culture on the street of Shevchenk, 92 a, in the city of Ljubotin Kharkiv district. Andrija Vadaturski to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for Unwarranted Benefits for Ukrainian Workers in the Seaports. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the immediate conduct of operational interventions, treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of budgetary resources, and the provision of material assistance. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Zitomir district government for the support of a low-income family, the granting of a social scholarship and the provision of housing for an orphan student. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of the rights of the participant in the hostilities of Igor Nelin. Ljubomir Zubak to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Henprocurator, on the inaction of law enforcement agencies. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Zaporozhye District Branch of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on possible facts of violations of antimonopoly legislation and legislation to protect the economic competition of the Pat Zaporozhyeblanergo. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for possible signs of violation of the rights of the BIOTEXCOM and its illegal capture. Jury Levchenka is headed by the Ukrainian State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate on the inactivity of the DABK KMDA and the need to take steps to stop illegal construction work in the territory of the former Nivka cinema in Kiev. Jury Levchenka to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority, the head of the Dnipropetrovsk District Council of the Dnipropetrovsk Region, the temporarily acting Chief of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Dnipropetrovsk Region, the Chief of the National Police Directorate in the Dnipropetrovsk Region, the Prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovsk Region for the use of urgent measures to respond to the facts of the likely intentional arson of the Jury Village Council of the Dnipropetrovsk Region and the kidnapping of the strict reporting documentation, causing significant losses to the united community and creating obstacles to the formation of the newly elected local government body. Eugene Balitsky to the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Henprocuror, Head of the Pat Supervisory Board of Security, on the urgent solution to the problem of late payment of salaries to PAT employees. Gregory Times to the executive responsibility of the Head of State for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the provision of information on the interest rate on rent paid by farmers in the Chernobyl area for the use of land outside the population. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister about the appeal of a citizen of Dascaluk and the actions of the Dergeokadastre, which are contrary to the Government's policies in support of small farming. Alexander Suprunka to the Minister of Finance, who is temporarily responsible for the Ukrainian Minister of Health’s responsibility to resolve the issues that arise in the course of the implementation of medical reform. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister, Director-General of the Ucrobonprom State Concert, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the activities of the State Enterprise Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the provision of local guarantees to ensure the full or partial fulfilment of the debt obligations of Ukrainian resident owners belonging to the municipal sector of the economy and located in rural and rural areas. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Social Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv government for the settlement of individual issues of transfer to persons with disabilities of cars recognized as humanitarian aid, the latter of which were provided through social protection agencies and used for more than 10 years. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Fiscal Service, the Ministry of Finance for the Enforcement of Tax Law. Ruslana Demczak to the Managing Director of the Fund for the Guarantee of the Investments of Natural Persons in Court Decisions, which have gained legal power. Mr. Alexander Gerega and Mr. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Social Policy on specific legal aspects of the provision of citizens' property rights to receive subsidies. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Ravenna government for the creation of additional hospital districts and intensive care hospitals in Dubrovnik, Volodymyrecki, Engagemental, Rocinniv district and Varas region. Vassil Janicka to the head of the Plains Authority, Director-General of the flat-line nuclear power plant, on the need to reconstruct the heat grids of the village of Zabość Wołodymirecki district of the Plains region. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on national industrial policy. Igor Alekseyev to the Rector of the Academy of the State Penitentiary Service for the Strategy for the Development of the National Probation Model. Sergey Chlana to the Prime Minister on possible corruption by the leadership of the U.S. U.S. U.S.F. in the Hersonian region. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to take measures to treat God’s Vani, who suffers from Volman’s disease. Sergey Rudika to the head of the Cerkas Observatories for the construction of internal sanitation units at the Stepankov Public Education School I-III graduated from the Cherkas District Council of the Cherkas region. Andrea Illenka, head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Socio-Economic Development, acting as Head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, Director of the Kiev City Council Housing and Utilities Infrastructure Department for Projection of Expenditures in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for 2018 for Capital Repairs of Housing in the Right-wing Region. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv Ministry of State, Director of the Kyiv Town Council Housing Infrastructure Department, Director of the Municipal Company, Managing Company for the Housing Fund of the Desnian District of Kiev, acting as Head of the Right District in Kiev of the State Administration for inclusion in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for 2018 of the capital repair of asphalt cover on Bratislava Street 6, 8, 18b, Milutenka Street, 7, 16, Kyoto Street, 3, 11-15 in the Right-wing Region of the capital. Dmitry Steczenka to Henprocuror to prevent the economic activity of Prat "Truskaveckurt". Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to bring the minimum wage of the employees of the 1st tariff level of the single tariff grid of discharges and the coefficients paid by the employees of the institutions, institutions and organizations of separate areas of the budget area into line with the minimum wage. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a historical and architectural reserve in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv. Igor Kotwiecki to the Prime Minister on proposals for preparing for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act "The State Budget for 2018". Oleg Kulinić is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to conduct a free liver transplant operation. Jury Bublika to Henprocuror, Minister of Interior, acting as Head of State Property Fund for Ukraine, on the existence of abuses by the Regional Office of the National Property Fund of Ukraine in the Poltav region under the administration of state property, on the holding of separate leases to tenants and on the violation of the housing rights of its residents. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the massive violation of the rights of pensioners of the Poltava region in the implementation of the pension reform and the envisaged modernisation of pensions, imperfection and opacity of their calculation. Oleg Osuhovsky to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Head of the President’s Administration, Head of the Plains Regional Government for the Restoration of Historical Monuments. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the State Archives of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna obrada, Head of the Ravenna observatories for the organization of the proper protection of the district archives. Sergey Matvienkova to the Prime Minister for the allocation of the funds of the shells in the villages of Sartan and Talakovka. I think it's up to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to allocate funds for gunmen in the villages of Sartan and Talakovka. Alexander Dubinin to the head of the Czernigow District Administration to address the issue of the work of modernizing the streets of Polina Osipenko, Bogdan Hmelnicki and Aviation in Priluka. Groups of National Deputies (Batenka, Kupriya, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation to the inhabitants of Mariinka Donetsk Region for the loss of their homes, which was on the line of conflict as a result of the fighting and the use of their military forces by the U.S.S.S.A. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, on the allocation of funds for the implementation of the project entitled "Capital repair of the Corps 2 and 3 of the secondary school of boarding schools of I-III degrees of the town of Rava-Rusca". Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister on bringing Ukraine's Pension Insurance Act into line with the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 16.07.2008 No. 654 "To increase the level of pensions of citizens". Irina Suslowa to the Minister of Social Policy, the head of the Ternopil district administration, the Head of the Ternopil Authority on the wrong actions of employees and the management of the Terebovlovian psycho-neural boarding house, which leads to violations of the rights of the underprivileged. Irina Souslowy, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror of Ukraine, for the improper performance by medical personnel of their functions, resulting in a severe impact on the newborn, Hondwerker Leonid Leonidovich. Alexander Nechayeva is acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Sumi Observatories, on the urgent resolution of the question of how to organize the traffic in Sumi district. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Infrastructure, head of the Suma District State Administration, on the impeccability of shutting down the Pat "Krupposta" offices in Suma County. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for the resolution of shortcomings in the mechanism for the modernisation of pensions for Ukrainian citizens, in particular former civil servants. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, to meet the budgetary needs of the authorities of Ukraine's local self-government. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Finance for the Increase in Educational and Medical Subventions for the Ternopil region. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Prime Minister, head of the Donetsk District Military and Civil Administration, head of the Military and Civil Administration of the city of Avdivka Donetsk Region to find ways of resolving the issue of gas recovery or alternative heating option for residents of the front city of Avdivka Donetsk Region. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Regional Administration of the Zitomir District on the urgent settlement of the issue of payment of compensation to residents of the city of Ovrók Zitomir Region for the loss of property resulting from the Chernobyl disaster, which remained in radioactively polluted territory. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the shortcomings of fiscal policy in Ukraine. Borislav Bereza to the minister of culture for the preservation of the monument to the archaeology of the national significance of the City of Sand. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the illegal activity of gaming establishments in the Righteous District of Kiev. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the possible construction of the "Castan City" in the residential area of the Winegrower in the Blue Lake area. Sergey Leshchenka to head the National Police of Ukraine on allegedly unauthorized street trade, 31/7 in Kiev. Julia Ioffe to the head of the Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration on the need for urgent measures to restore gas to the village of Krimské Novoejdar district, town-type village Toshkovka and town-type village Lower, Pásnjan district Lugansk region, in particular through the construction of a high-pressure gas pipeline from the GRS "Peace Valley" (the village Podlisne) to the SSR in the village of the town-type Toshkovka of the Pásnjan district of Lugansk. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to restore government regulation of food prices. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine, on the systemic problem of improperly investigating and unlawfully refusing to register criminal claims. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the elimination of violations of legislation when issuing biometric passports. Roman Semenha to Prime Minister of Ukraine for a copy of the project "New construction of a complex of solid household wastes with a collection system, recycling, local gas and electricity production in Dergachi region". Roman Semenha to the temporary duty of head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of environmental legislation during the construction and operation of sewage treatment facilities in the land area at the foot of the Sands 13, the village of Utkivuk of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv. Sergey Rybalka to Prime Minister, temporarily acting Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of emergency medical care for the treatment of Sudak Nelly’s child abroad. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on funding of flood control programmes for the Cherniewec region in 2018. Maxim Burbak to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the unsatisfactory work of the head of the Sokirian District State Administration of the Cherniewec Region. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin Oblast Administration, Head of the Department of State in the Volinsky area, for insurance against health threats and the lives of citizens as a result of the improper operation of the ventilation system in the school premises in the village of Cherce Kamin-Kashire district of Volinsk. Aunts of Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the absence of vaccines in Odessa region medical institutions. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the Local People's Landing Investment Project. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelnicka oblžadje on the need for the provision of funds in the State and District Budgets for 2018 for the capital repair of roads in the Hmelnicki district. Victor Vuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inaction of the police in the Cherkas region as part of an inappropriate response to violations of electoral legislation and the commission of electoral crimes. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister for the verification of the activities of the Zaporozhye ODA management in the reconstruction of water networks in the village of Vilnius, Orikhiv region, Zaporezki region. John Rybak to the head of the Chernobyl District Administration, the head of the Chernobyl Arch, the head of the Putil District State Administration of the Chernobyl Region on the use of debt relief measures in front of officials of the Putil Public Education School I-III. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the distribution of the stabilization grant to the local budgets of the Cherniveck region to provide budget workers with a salary allocation. Groups of National Deputies (Romanov, Jury, only 19) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the increase in the tourism flow between the PRC and Ukraine. Mr. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the initiation of the amendment of the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 08.06. In 2016 (number 365). Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Culture, Science and Education. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Medical and Drug Control on the proper state control of the detection and prevention of the production and distribution of counterfeit and falsified drugs, and on the prevention of drug smuggling. Mikoli Palamarczuk to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for bringing disciplinary responsibility to the judge of the Odessa District Court of Justice in connection with the deliberate substantial violation of procedural law during the execution of justice. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Security Service in Poltavska oblast, the Poltava District Administration, the General Directorate of the State Fiscal Service in Poltavska region, the Prosecutor's Office of the Poltav region on the basis of the charges of the BO Foundation "International Anti-Corruption Courts" to the address of the SVG PLUS. Oksana Bilozer and Alexander Dehtirczuk headed by the Ukrainian State Security Service for transport on the adoption of measures to prevent violations of the right to payment by participants in an anti-terror operation and members of their families. Victor Vuka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine, on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Cherkas region in criminalizing the use of the land within the village of Konelska Popovka. Sergei Vlasenka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, on the possible corrupt influence of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Andrija Galchenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ukrainian Henprocuratorate. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of health care services for IMF pensioners. Anna Romanova to the Authorized President of the Rights of the Child, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Education, and Science of Ukraine on issues of inclusive education for children with autism. Oksana Biloz to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the verification of the status of the preservation of the entire property complex of the Lviv National Art Gallery of Woznitsky. Yuri Solova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of new modern - day police cars to Kosovo, Verkhovina, and Sveti district. Yurya Solovya to head the State Service of Ukraine with extraordinary situations regarding the provision of the state fire rescue section No. 14 of the city of Kosovo of Ivano-Frankiv district with a new modern fire engine. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the UkrSibbank Board on the restructuring of the debt under a credit agreement caused by the undervaluation of the national currency. Jury Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to preserve and restore useful logging. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of proper response to the issue of combating illegal gambling in Ukraine. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine on Food Safety and Consumer Protection, the Odessa District Government, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the collective appeal of residents of House 34 on the Odessa River to ensure consumers' rights and to prevent excessive tariffs on electricity, as well as the question of preventing direct contracts with residents of the building. Yurya Derevyanka to the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine on the need for an immediate investigation into illegal activities resulting in the loss of Ukrainian state ownership to part of Samara - West and Grozny - Armavir - Labor oil pipelines by 1,433 kilometers [1,433 km] through Ukraine and their ownership by companies controlled by the pro-Russian oligarchs, as well as the facts of uncalculated and uncontrollable transport of petroleum products through these oil products without paying taxes and collections to Ukraine’s State Budget. Irina Heratschenko and Maria Ionov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on matters of European and Euro-Atlantic integration, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the promotion of prostheticism and rehabilitation abroad of the soldier of the 72nd OMB Alexander Morozov. Paul Djublik and Vadim Krivenk to the Prime Minister on the need for immediate provision of medical supplies and medical supplies to citizens. Oleg Petrenk is under the responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Service for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the provision of land for antiterrorists and families of dead participants. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the increase in expenditure under the budget programme of KPCK 2404020, "Development of the mineral and raw materials base". Dear colleagues, here I have completed the announcement of 232 questions that have come to this day and are registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now, according to our order of day, we have a few laws, but I see that there is no potential in the hall to go into anyway. So, with your permission, I'm calling it a break. And we're meeting exactly 12:30 for the "Victory" section. Please don't be late for all those who want to join the "Variance" section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u55	Very timely, dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. I'm asking you to sign up for a statement from now on. I ask you to return to the session room of all. Now, just a minute. I'm asking you to go back to the session room, come in and join everyone who wants to join the performances under the heading "Rizzle." Please. Now, don't push for the presidency, don't push for the presidency, don't interrupt the presidency. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a recording under the heading "Rizzna," please. Did everyone sign up? There's a record, please give me a list. Dear colleagues, and we have, I'm the only one who wants to announce right now, we have, we have, very much, an unsatisfying response to the requests of the Ukrainian national MPs. And I promised that for the first nine minutes, now I'm going to give three people on this list. And then, we go, we work for an hour and a half on the list of those who are going to join the "Rizzle" section. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, so what difference does it make? Then you'd say someone was coming. Dear colleagues, look, you're not going to agree with the Radical Party, and you're going to be better on Friday, closer to lunch, and love each other, and I'm going to sit down. Please, first Alexei Rybchin, please, three minutes straight. I'm saying that now we have nine minutes, and then Illenko the first, absolutely fair. Andrew, you go first. You're the first, Your Honor, Mr. Andrew, you're always the first. Three minutes, please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u56	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm drawing your attention to the environmental issue and the issue of government governance on the ground, this example. Recently, I was approached by local deputies and local activists from Hmielnicina with information that the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources has been eliminated in the Hmmel district administration and that its functions have been transferred to another department of agro-industrial development. And I want to draw your attention to this problem because it is very important. The Ukrainian Parliament ratified the Paris Climate Agreement as one of the first in the world, a global agreement that relates to global things. And if we want the whole world to help us fight the aggressor country, we also have to worry about the things that bother the world. And so many bills and laws have already been passed by the Ukrainian Supreme Council to increase the environmental protection of the population and the environmental responsibility of the business. And what do we see? That the trend of increasing energy efficiency, restoring energy sources, ecology, environmental trends in the world, they're increasing, and at the local level, it doesn't correspond to reality. And we can see that that destroyed department in Hmielnickin has transferred functions to agro-industrial development, people have been released. Moreover, Minister of Ecology Ostap Semerak, who now, as we know, is in Bonn at the climate conference, spoke publicly about the situation in Hmelnick. He pointed out, on the contrary, that the Ministry is proposing that the Cabinet of Ministers increase the number in the departments of ecology in connection with preparations for the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, which we have adopted by the Supreme Council. In October, I sent my parliamentary request to the head of the Hmélních Oblast to report the reasons and purpose of such a decision and to consider the possibility of cancelling my order. And the interesting point, by referring to our legally prescribed authority, in response, we didn't state the reason for that decision, they said: the administrative decision that was taken. And why it was accepted, nobody noticed. So I want to point out that all state administrations in Ukraine, except Winnick and now Hmelnicki, have separate departments in their structure, or the management of ecology and natural resources, only in Winnitzkin and Hmelnicki they are united with agro-industrial departments. I don't know if we have these agrarian lobbyes, agrarian holdings that are so powerful that because of the new environmental legislation being put into operation, they decided to lobby and not make more environmental standards, and pollute the environment, and pollute more rivers. I don't know why the district government does this: there's no money in decentralization or priority -- I don't know. But for example, today, when he met a Norwegian investor who wanted to invest, to restore energy sources in Kamyanec-Podilski, he noted that there was a problem. Because he does not know about the disposal of the environmental department that dealt with these things, he does not know where to turn. War in the East is not a reason to forget about ecology and reform. Ecology should become a priority for the Ukrainian State.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u57	Please, next Glacier. Then Storm, and we're going to start with "Victory" after this. But I gave all the debts to Parliament, to all the dissatisfied, not happy and all that. Anything, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u58	Good afternoon, Ukraine! I'm dissatisfied with the answers to the requests I get from law enforcement authorities about the persecution of business in Ukraine, that is, those legal persons who produce gross domestic product, foreign investors and so on. I don't actually have one today, but I don't have three disgruntled people to ask, but I'm not going to stop at them in detail, because there's a bunch of examples if everyone writes, not enough of my three minutes. In particular, this fight against the business of the Department of Security of Ukraine and the Department of Economic Affairs of the Attorney General is very active. And, for example, Tacrom, a Romanian company that has German founders who are involved in hydro-slutting the layer in order to increase the production of gas in Ukraine. She also suffers from this, and are German investors, a company called DVA Agro Ukraine, who has also been persecuted by the Ukrainian Security Service? And so on. Why is this happening? Because there is a rematch of corruptionists in the country, people who have actually come under the terms of the fight against corruption? They themselves are profiting from corruption flows, they don't want to change the system that is satisfied with the status quo that is, because every day it guarantees them to fill their pockets at the expense of corruption money, flows from state enterprises and so on. And in particular, this week, the whole country saw the discovery of one person from the National Anti-Corruption Agency? Hanni Salamathinou, who directly explained how the Bank’s Office of the President has a special viewer who calls and instructs whom to persecute, who not to touch. What is more, it even gives the task of preparing two draft decisions: one draft decision -- justifiable, the other draft decision -- the judge -- to keep the disobedient on the hook. And with whom they deal either for money or for political loyalty to give them the opportunity to be unpunished, and so on. This is a direct result of the lack of political will in the country to fight corruption, and it is absent because we have not changed generations in politics. Because our Ukrainian leaders, the leaders -- they represent the exact same values that Janukovitch6 represented -- use politics for their own wealth. And I'll tell you frankly, it's already coming to completely unacceptable things when right here, in the session room, I'm approached by one of the deputies who's part of the faction who's made up the majority, and he's the person who's in charge of registering French investors, that's who's in charge of the investigation at the Anti-Corruption Bureau, and he's, without hiding, right here in the session room, started blackmailing me, telling me that he's going to throw some pretty cool papers at me, that he's going to be doing my discreditment, if I don't stop demanding to bring him into criminal responsibility. I say I'm not afraid of your fairies, I've been through all this, and I know the truth is on my side, because I do what I tell Ukrainian citizens. If you don't choose honest authority, there are thefts and corruptionists, which then your money, your pensions, your scholarships, your hospitals, your schools -- all of this goes into their offshore accounts for their personal cash flows to get rich in politics. I'm not afraid of that. Thank you for your attention, and I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u59	I'm sorry, lots of people. I'm on my way. Shurma, please. And that's where the disgruntled end. Then the performances of the contented begin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u60	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I want to show you today how false the information that comes from the Ministry of Health is. We are deeply concerned that, in our time, we find ourselves in a situation far different from that of international organizations who will buy what is needed for Ukrainian patients. In 2016, the money was listed, in 2016, 4 billion dollars per bank abroad. As of today, think about it, for 2016, 55 percent of the drugs in the region have gone into the region for which the money was counted as early as November 2016. Forgive me for cynicism, and let me be forgiven by all souls, all who needed to die have already died because of the lack of medicine; all who had not healed have also come out of the hospital. And for 2017, today, not even tender purchases have been made, which is 6 billion dollars. If the Ministry of Health, the MOH, which has become the "ministery of special threats", listed the money at the right time, our medical facilities would be filled with drugs today. Let it not be in 100% volume, but at least in the necessary volume for patients. What do we receive in response to unsatisfying work? In August, the minister's temporary duty is to sign a letter, a copy of which goes to the Prime Minister, and if he doesn't put an end to it, he's just like her. So they're going to write that as early as August, there was a register, a working group formed a register, and there's a need for that register, and we can go to the purchases today. There's no register, there's no tenders, there's absolutely no understanding of what they're doing. And why you don't understand, I'll explain to you that we're entering eight countries with the lowest vaccination and the world at the level of African states. So this calculation shows that they don't even know how to count the basics, because today we're running out of more than 700 doses. And during this period of time, a year and a half, the Cabinet of Ministers does not introduce a candidate into the Hall for approval. Bring whoever you want. We need to know who is responsible for the inaction in providing drugs to Ukrainian citizens. A person's absence tells us that there's no one to answer, that the burden falls on the Prime Minister. He's waiting for the minister's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u61	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the performances under the heading "Rizzne", distinguished colleagues. And the first word is given to Jehor Sobolev. Please, there's a complicated replacement, but I'm on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u62	I want to inform the national MPs who are present in the hall, as well as the community, that a half an hour ago on the street of the Institute Unknown, who were presented with a criminal investigation, Lieutenant Colonel Vano Nadiradze of the Georgian Army was detained. I want to say right away that this is not a new-force movement or Michael Saakashvili, although in Ukraine it seems that being a Georgian means already being a criminal from the point of view of the leadership of the state and the leadership of the law enforcement authorities. Vano was a volunteer who came to protect Ukraine in 2015, in 2016, fought on the front, then joined the inner corps of Donbas, he was one of the organizers of the camp near the Supreme Council. I want to say to my colleagues that you've all seen that veterans, who stand under Parliament for the fourth week, do not commit any illegal acts against us, nor with respect to law enforcement, nor with regard to anyone. They maintain order, they stand with clear requirements for the adoption of laws that were promised in this room, and the President of Ukraine promised, and society promised, the same Anti-Corruption Court Act. If the nation's leadership has chosen a path to repression, none of the veterans will be intimidated, none of the supporters will stop it. I think it will only speed up the end of state leadership. I'm going to the Minister of Internal Affairs as Ukraine's national MP for immediate admission, and I want information that's from Vano, where he's being held, on what grounds. Similarly, during the time of the boys standing at the Supreme Council, six searches were conducted in their families. According to a ruling by the Court of Mariupol, according to the order of the investigator of the Donetsk Police with the name Plague, they come to the house as the boys come here, knock the doors out, talk to their wives, talk to their children, talk to their mothers. No man is even suspicious, everything is done in a criminal case that is not war veterans, but bandits and robbers. I want to tell all the police officers, all the judges: all the names of the participants in the repression are recorded. And you will be the first to face the law after the change in power in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u63	Next address, please, People's Deputy Krivohatko. Please. You enjoyed speaking after yesterday, and we are very happy to do so, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u64	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! My questions to those officials who are involved in the personnel policy of the President's Administration. And it follows when the experiment with the Governor of Zaporozhye District, Brilem Costin Ivanovich, ends? Is it not clear that no revolution, even if it is the Dignity Revolution, will make a decent man out of a barrier, will make him a romantic and a man who will work for the benefit of Ukraine? In the last five and a half years, while Brill was in office, there was no corruption scandal in the Zaporozhye region, where he was either directly a figure, or a person involved. I want to warn you, Brill, Zaporozhye has also supported the Dignity Revolution, and in general, the change in the country. You know it's a complex region. Because that's what he used to do. And one reason that's serious is to dominate such a watchful Ansimus. Why did you change Ansimov to Brill, tell me? Then Brill collected the money. Then I picked Anisymov -- now he's picking up Brill. Brill explains it's some kind of party project. They've already gotten to the party so much that they're rating power within the statistical error in Zaporozhye, who's interested. What is this threat to the front? Terrible social tension. No socially important objects are being built today — watersheds, kindergartens. I was inspecting a kindergarten in my district, where it was completely documented, 95 percent of the work was done, and in fact 100,000 were not done there! Five million dollars went nowhere. Waterworks. The village of Lukasheve, where five million people were kicked out and a piece of pipe rolled out of a ditch. Is that okay? Five million, too. Six million people — Kirpotin — and the mass of such objects. I want to prove to you, colleagues, that 100 million dollars, 104 million dollars, or 16 years, have not been used for the past 16 years! These are objects that have to be built, objects that have to remove the social tension that should have worked for people, for the benefit of people, all of this is done, because the fallouts in the Zaporozhye region are already down to 30 percent. Entrepreneurs can't pay for that. They say, well, there was a normal governor, well, 10 percent we can pay, but 20-30 is already higher. You will no longer be trained for this money and facility, nor will you go to prison. The roads are unrepaired. I mean, I don't know what's the profit? There are people who do. You're cheating on the President, you understand? What is more important to you, the bags that Brill carries for you every Friday or the authority of Dust? You need to get a good look at this situation for yourself and make a decision because it will end badly in the Zaporozhye region.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u65	Thank you for the talk. Next Deputy Krivoshia, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. We all remember that literally a few weeks ago in Ukraine there was another election to separate territorially united communities. At the same time, in the Boguslav region of the Kyiv region, one of the Medwinska community communities was also formed, where the elections took place. And then the next election to the next community should be the Boguslav City Territorial Society. By now, in principle, all documents are agreed upon by the head of the district administration assigned to the CLTC. I expect that for the month of April in the city of Boguslav and in the separate villages of the Boguslav region there will be elections to the Boguslav community. But there are certain facts, and I would like to be asked not only by the national MPs, but by all the officials in place. The representatives of district administrations, and this does not apply only to Boguslav, realizing that two months later, six months after the creation of a united territorial community, they lose their authority, their ability to manage the budget, their property, their costs, their delineation, their theft. And in such a cut, they try to push all kinds of small and medium-sized businesses, especially in places. This is also true of the Boguslav region. I would like to say that the local officials were referring to the idea of creating a union of territorial communities, not as a process that they want to steal money from their pockets, which they are thus trying to deduct from their budget money, but to help them not to interfere. And again, I want to say, I encourage you to do this in the Boguslav region. Today, there are a number of enterprises in the Boguslav region that pay tens of millions of dollars to the district budget. I also want these funds to reach the Boguslav district. I want this road to not go to Gitomira or Borispol or Boyarka, and I want the road to Bogoslav region to be made, and I want to make sure that, for the money that the people in the Boguslav region pay, the people in the region are lighting up, and I want them to repair the houses of culture, gardens, schools. And that is why I strongly support the idea of uniting the territorial communities, because I realize that there will be no posters such as the district council and the district council that will delineate the funds in their interests. And in the end, I would like to say that I would like to thank every deputy in this room who has voted and supported all the ideas that relate to the question of the united communities, whether it's opposition or coalition, we do the right thing, we do what people have to understand, they can direct their lives and do the good to themselves, not to anyone, but to themselves, firstly, to ourselves in the territories. As the Supreme Council, as the legislative body, we need to help and support them. Thank you. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u67	Thank you, People's Front. Please, National Deputy Illenko. Mr. Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u68	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, in recent weeks there have been extremely disturbing events in our foreign policy. There was a statement yesterday by Deputy Prime Minister Hungary that Hungary's national autonomy on Zakarpatta should be created and that it is perfectly normal that there are huge numbers of Ukrainian citizens of Hungarian origin who also have Hungarian passports and Hungary will continue to pursue such policies. The same was said recently by the president of the Czech Republic, Zeman, in which he said that Crimea should be recognized as part of Russia, and he said to accept it. We have recently seen a complete series of historical statements by some Polish high-holders. We can see that even in nearby Belarus there are very disturbing trends, including the detention of a Ukrainian journalist, and it turns out that this happened again on October 25th, but it wasn't known at all all this time, it wasn't even given a proper lawyer, and the Ukrainian Embassy in Minsk has not done so yet. And we understand that this is actually happening today in all directions. Of course, Russia's war against Ukraine continues, Russian aggression continues, which is still unrecognized by Ukraine, still unexplored diplomatic relations with the country's aggressor, still ongoing trade, still Russian business and business of Russian oligarchs flourishing in Ukraine. And all of this suggests that, clearly, we are not going to give a detailed analysis of each of these cases right now, but in general, this is the result, including the totally spineless, contractual policy of today's leadership of a state that's used to getting on its knees every time, rather than being hard to defend the Ukrainian national interests of offshore, self-sufficient, self-sustaining, corrupt equipment, but absolutely not defending Ukrainian national interests. And seeing this weakness in the leadership of Ukraine, many nations are starting to behave and expose Ukraine to various claims. It is necessary to stop this situation; it is necessary to pursue a policy of strict protection of national interests. And we see today that this position of power is leading to this. Because the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian nation, demonstrated their courage, demonstrated their ability to defend themselves both on the front and in the back. At the same time, however, this position of leadership leads to such an external political situation and such a weakness of the Ukrainian state. In world politics, unfortunately, it will always be weak to receive claims from all the neighbors. We need to be strong and protect our national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Now, your honor colleague Ivan Sporish. He's got six minutes because our colleague Demczak gives him the word. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u70	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! First of all, I want to turn to you, because I have an agricultural district, and we have a beautiful holiday, the Day of the Farmer, today is celebrated throughout Ukraine, but at the same time, we know that it will all be on Sunday. And that's why I'd like to welcome all the agrarians, and welcome them, because we know that the country's economy depends on our agrarians, the country's economy depends on the milk supply, on the large crops. And so I would very much like our agrarians to really do everything they can in our country to develop and develop normally. But to do that, I would very much like our government to pay attention, and once again, I'm going to say again and again, and I'm going to say that now in the 2018 budget, we've done everything we can to pay the added cost of livestock to be for our agrarians. We know very well that only then does it count when there is VAT debt, and if there is no VAT, there is no payment. So I'd very much like us to include in the new budget, so that we don't have any debt, on any account, on any account, on any claim, on that tax, and so that we don't have to pay those animal percentages directly. Otherwise, we know perfectly well that it will be very difficult to keep that cow in the village and it will be very difficult to produce. Well, unlike, of course, we can see that you're predominant in chickens, but I'd really like them to be animalized, milked, in our cows. I also want to say that we're celebrating Student Day. All the young people in Ukraine, the prospect of Ukraine’s development, wanted to welcome them. And it was Wednesday that we had, in our Hall, our committee held parliamentary hearings on the role of young Ukraine in the conditions of decentralization. And we've heard a lot of speeches from the young generation's hall that really should take the levers into their own hands and do everything we can to develop our Ukraine. But in conditions of decentralization, I'd like to go to the united territorial communities, to the heads, to the sessions, because they have to do everything they can to give young people and the facilities to put the funds into the budget so that young people can develop, and that's going to be a pretty big contribution to our young people. But I wanted to turn to the soul's scream, to the soul's scream, is that today is really the day before Labor Day, but there's no way we can solve the problem so that the heads of the territorial communities can manage the village heads of the session to land outside the population. I have already spoken from this rostrum and, unfortunately, we are Bill 1159, which was in our hall, we have not been able to accept it, the following bill has not been adopted, and in the meantime the ground is decomposing and we know it, and we know it, and we know that it has been removed from the responsibilities of the head or the responsibilities of the head of the State Department, but, at the same time, we still have to look in the areas, in the areas. Let me give you a simple example. We have, in my district, the village of Lipiwak Tomaspil district, where 30 hectares of gardens are produced. Who do you think? Just strangers, these people themselves don't know what they got there on a hectare or a half an hour and a half, they don't know it themselves, they've written statements for them. Only from this village, maybe two, three, four, have received land and 30 hectares of gardens, where people could trap cows, unfortunately, have already been released, and not isolated cases, and we know that these incidents are all over Ukraine. And so I really wanted us to adopt this law, so that we could still have this land run by the sessions, the heads of the territorial communities. Sadly, many of our national deputies failed to vote in favour of the bill. Perhaps they and the State Department want to do everything they can to make more use of this land because of bribes and to obtain it illegally. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we accepted the weekend of December 25 is a big plus, because even in my circle there's a lot of villages where 90 percent of the population are Roman Catholics. And that's why, in the end, there's some kind of justice that even 25 Roman Catholic numbers can already have a weekend. And if they were always in the image, so I also want to welcome them, this is our joint work, our Parliament. And that's why it's such a big, big step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u71	Thank you for this summary of the positive week of Parliament's work. And now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like a word with the People's Deputies of Martovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u72	Dear citizens of Ukraine! This week began with the first reading of the draft of another disgraceful state budget. Like the budgets of the past four years, it will work to reduce the social protection of Ukrainians and lead to their total poverty. And that's not a metaphor, because the cost of living at least in the budget project is roughly equal to the absolute poverty rate set by the UN, which is $2 per day. The documents proposed by the government prior to the first reading of the text do not have the right to exist. I'm sure that's because I've been discussing his risks with the authorities of my district's local self-government. And I can argue that the draft budget poses a direct threat to the institution of local self-government. After all, by passing on unsecured social articles, the government is increasing the pressure on local budgets and, in fact, making it impossible to implement both the articles themselves and the planned local development programs. Local government officials actually become hostages when they are legally required to create appropriate conditions for education, health care, and the livelihood of the population, adding new costs to existing articles and not providing resources or opportunities to attract them. Tell us, who will be blamed if light or heat is lost in their homes because suppliers are chronically unaccounted for for by-products? Of course, the City Authority. Because the draft budget provides for people's housing and utility benefits to be paid at the expense of local budgets without public funding for this article. For example, the additional pressure on Pavlovgrad’s budget to do so amounted to 17.5 million dollars, which was my statement last Friday. Medicine is the same thing. The Shakhtar city of Prvotrovensk needs medical subsidies of 41 million dollars. And the budget provides only 18 million 800,000 dollars, or 45 percent of the estimated need. In the Pavlovgrad region, 39 million dollars are needed, and only 17 million are foreseen. I have a question, do budget developers really consider it to be a real guarantee of an adequate level of health and life for the population in such a sustainable environment? In my statement, I would like to stress that if these errors are not corrected during the second reading of the draft budget, the responsibility to the people for possible socio-economic collapses in the regions will be borne not by local leaders, but by those who have submitted an anti-national budget to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Please make the next statement. Passes the word to Lesyuk People's Demchak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, let me read a letter to you from the nurses in Lipovec of Vinnitsky County on pension reform. Please give us an answer to why we've received such a small pension allowance. You promised not to include in the pension formula our former low-income salaries, and now at 40 years of age, we've received an extra 130-160 dollars. We call upon you, Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich, and to you, the national deputies, to review these unfortunate allowances for us. Nurses of Lipové Vynicka District: Helen Kuznyarska, Lydia Jablonska, Lilia Netey and others -- and we wish you health so you never get sick. Indeed, with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to increase pensions) after recalculating the employment pension of a certain category of people who, with even more than 40 years of employment but who retired in the 1990s, the amount went even lower than before the estimate and grew only by raising the minimum pension from October 1, 2017. This is primarily related, as of this time, to the inadequate size of wages in the 1990s in connection with rising inflation in the last 20 years. For example, the minimum wage in 1996 was only 15 dollars per month, the Nurse’s salary of 38 years was 85 dollars per month, and the average salary in 1996 was 130. I believe that this is a omission of pension reform, so it will be fair for this category of people who retired in the 1990s in the formula for the individual wage coefficient to apply the wage size no less than the average monthly salary in Ukraine, which was used during the assignment of pensions in accordance with Cabinet of Ministers regulation 1783 of 20.11.2003. Considering that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the main initiator and developer of pension reform, it is he who has to carry out the calculations and exit the legislative initiative, amending the Pension Insurance Act of Ukraine. Please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u75	Thank you. Please make a statement as a parliamentary address. And now for your word, please, Oleg Lachka. I've been waiting a long time today. Dear Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u76	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, this Sunday, all the progressive parts of the Ukrainian society will celebrate the Day of Farmers. The village is a cradle of Ukraine, and everyone who talks about the development of the country, about the future of our country in today's global world must understand one very simple thing: without the village, there will be no Ukraine. Not only because more than 12 million Ukrainian citizens live there, but also because the village can be a locomotive for the development of the Ukrainian economy, when we trade not raw materials, not grains, but ready products, when there are jobs in the village, there will be agro-processing, restored livestock, the social sphere and jobs in the village. Taking advantage of this great opportunity for our team of the Radical Party of the Festival, the Day of Agricultural Workers, I want to thank sincerely the people of work — mechanics, milkers, tractors, everyone who works in the country, everyone who lives through Ukraine. I want to address from this high rostrum the words of gratitude and respect for the veterans of work, the agricultural workers who have worked hard all their lives and, unfortunately, earned a penny pension, made huge diseases, huge problems, and unfortunately, meager pensions. The Radical Party team, thanks to the support of the people of the village, is in parliament, and here we stand for laws that will allow people in the village to live. First of all, the ancient question of who does the Ukrainian land belong to? Today's authorities want to tear this land apart under the market of the land they want to bring in transnational corporations, latifundists, who are draining the land in pursuit of a long ruble, they have no regard for rural jobs, they don't care about the fate of rural children, they don't care about them, and we don't care. Therefore, the Radical Party team initiated changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in order to record in article 41 that agriculture is the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine. We suggest that we develop in the villages of the mononomials, farm farms, small farms, so that people can have maximum national support and attention. A huge problem in the village, besides the small pensions for peasants, which we are fighting for and getting again for farmers in the new year 2018, is an equally important problem: gas prices are high because milk prices are low and gas prices have to be paid. We're trying to lower gas prices, we're suing the government's decision to set an unfair price on gas so as not to rob Ukrainian peasants. And the key is the question of milk prices, of agricultural production. We will do our utmost to ensure that the work of the peasants, the work of our dear villagers, is valued at a dignified level.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko of the opposition. Yuri Miroshnichenko, then Bereza. Colleagues are already confused. And then the national deputy Buglak, is it? You don't? If not, then Yemen. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u78	Thank you, Irina. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. Today, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of budgetary financing of an important sector for the state, such as the pension system of Ukraine, which includes the institution of execution of penalties of various types and regimes, the insulators, the law enforcement authorities, and the medical institutions, state enterprises, etc. In recent years, the penitentiary system has been chronically underfunded. Yes, the security of the needs of the sector in the general budget expenditure in 2017 was only 42.8 percent. And as a result of this chronic underfunding, despite the reform of the penitentiary system, the state of affairs in the field remains complex. Yes, the penitentiary system has remained the last place among all Ukrainian law enforcement agencies for many years. Accordingly, the quality of the staff leaves us with a desire for a better one. In addition, considerable understaffing has worsened the already tense situation, especially in places where punishments are carried out. Corruption in the penitentiary system is largely related to the low level of pay for staff and the underfunding of prisoners in places of deprivation. Under such difficult conditions, the Ministry of Justice, whose administration today belongs to the penitentiary system, supports the Penitentiary Reform Committee and introduces European standards. Dear colleagues, I'll add. I'm actually speaking out because I have the honour of working with the Committee on Law Enforcement, and I'm in the process of reforming the penitentiary system. And I want to say that the attitude toward children, older people, people with mental disabilities, people with disabilities, including prisons depends on how civilized the state is. In our country, where the penitentiary system has remained Karan for many years, we are trying to make and implement a rehabilitation approach. This is a challenging task that many of us need to bring together, which is primarily to enable a person who has made a mistake in prison to realize his mistake, to want to change, and, in fact, to ensure a return to full social life. I'd like to invite and encourage all of our colleagues who are now working on the budget to consider those amendments, namely.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u79	Ten seconds. It's just me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u80	Take those adjustments into account and increase funding so that the system is fully operational. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Please give the next speech from Borislav Bereza. Mr. Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u82	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. As good as he is, you'll say it yourself. That's what I want to pay attention to. I want to say that Kiev is in very great danger right now. Why? Because in future sessions they want to adopt the so-called 2025 plan. This is a plan that should indicate how the Kiev will develop, but this is the plan that will try to resolve any illegal developments in Kiev. What's more, I can tell you that this is the plan that will try to build your squares, gardens, and parks. That is how Kiev’s builders, who are also members of Kievrada, will now continue to make their decisions. And that's why I want to go to all the really opposition MPs, from Self-Help, from Fatherland, and I want to go to those MPs from Freedom who are now in Kievrad to block and not give a vote for that illegal decision that makes all of Kiev's illegal buildings legal. I don't know who they promised, who, what areas, what avenues to call, what names, I don't know who was promised jobs and opportunities in Kiev. But I understand that if this happens, it's the biggest betrayal that could be in Kiev. That's why I'm addressing all the deputies elected in Kiev so that together we can protect the Kyiv regardless of which parties we refer to. I also want to say that according to this, the DPT wants to destroy the forest area at all. Why? I mean. All the forests that are there will be cut off, the triestine connected to the forest, and there will be construction, a large structure. You could say this is going to be a large concrete area, not a forest area. And what I'm saying is that now we're planning to build a lake called Diamonds and build the biggest garbage disposal plant. Dear tridents, you realize that there will be the largest in the country, not in Kiev, but in the country, a garbage factory. Do you want it? Tell your deputies, the deputies of Kyivrada, but I want everyone, everyone who can interfere with this disgraceful issue, and that the development plan of Kiev 2020-2025, which is trying to destroy Kiev, to be stopped. I'll be grateful to everyone for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u83	Thank you for the talk. Next, please, a national MP. Buglak, I get it, there's no word to anyone. Yemen, please, Mr. Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u84	Thank you. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. I'm just going to say very briefly that I fully support the statement that was just made by my brothers in Kiev by Borislav Brez. It is unacceptable to accept in the way the city of Kiev today sees fit for the next period. That's true. In general, I came out here to read a joint statement by the G7 ambassadors on electoral legislation. Let me write it down. So a joint statement by the G7 ambassadors to support the election reform in Ukraine: "We welcome the Supreme Council of Ukraine with approval in the first reading of the draft Electoral Code (No. 3112-1). We are the only ones who think that the time has come for electoral reform to ensure at least a year before the 2019 elections. We believe that until the second reading, there remains room for transparent, inclusive and consultative process to ensure further strengthening of democratic representation, including through sanctions for violations of electoral legislation and the improper use of public resources with a view to increasing political participation and representation of vulnerable communities and minorities, including women and internally displaced persons, and to speed up the reform of political financing. We also call for an update in 2017 of the Central Election Commission (CEC) through the appointment of members of the CLTC for all 13 seats in a commission whose term of office is exhausted. This will enable the establishment of a politically balanced electoral commission with powerful long-term mandates that will work to support the modern electoral mechanism. They are convinced that electoral reforms to meet relevant international obligations and standards are key to the full realization of Ukraine’s potential. Effective electoral processes that use confidence and ensure the legitimacy of electoral institutions and leaders will have a significant impact on the long-term consolidation of democracy, political stability and economic progress." So, just now, honourable citizens, you have heard the statement of ambassadors who represent the states, the countries that today define the world's policy on our planet, who strongly recommend that we change electoral legislation and adopt the Law on Open Electoral Lists, because they have passed the path of democracy and are showing this path today to Ukraine. In this way we have to go and take advantage, and this choice will soon come before the Supreme Council and the deputies who have to make decisions and open the way to the next election through open electoral lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Please give the next speech from Elena Sotnik. Mrs. Olena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I'm asking for silence in the hall and Mrs. Oleni three minutes, we're all listening carefully, don't interrupt. Guys! Men!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u88	Thank you very much. Colleagues, I, if I may, find it very difficult to speak when there is noise and noise in the hall. Thank you very much, Chairman. I want to draw people's attention today to the key organ in the state, to the most important organ in the state, to Parliament. We are a legislative body, and the way we work really depends on a lot of things, including people’s welfare. And very often we keep quiet about the problems that are in Parliament itself. I'm not going to repeat myself, you've heard thousands of times about the violation of the Rules directly in and outside this room. Sadly, though, the last month has taken on a cynical scale. At first, I remind you that the problem is not solved, and it is not clear what the final text of the procedural codes will end. At first, Mr. Lozov’s amendment, which was changed by the head of the Committee without a committee meeting, did not really have an answer, even though it was a gross violation of the Rules. Then it turns out that the text of the procedural codes that came out of this Parliament is now changing again in the Presidential Administration. This is what Vitaly Shabunin wrote about, which is where the amendment disappeared, my, in particular, of the text already signed and transmitted by Parliament to the President's Administration, which is essentially a crime and actually a forgery of documents. I think all of these things have to be considered very systematically. Today, I have another fact that the Supreme Council's apparatus is actually abusing its position of service and obstructing its parliamentary activities, severely violating the legislation and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, I was presented yesterday with a bill signed by a number of national deputies. The report made it very clear that he was an alternative, but the apparatus, in particular the Registration Department, decided to register him separately. Because it's not convenient, because the bill, which is the main, initiated Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, is completely, in fact, covered today and is very active in Parliament, and it's not convenient for this bill to have any alternative. Thus, in gross violation of the article of the Rules, virtually ignoring my legal requirements, the Registration Department actually decided, on the basis of some instructions, how to deal with these bills. I think that the head of Parliament should finally stop these violations of the Rules, stop violating the rights of parliamentarians, and evaluate the work of the Supreme Council's apparatus. I don’t understand why they get 100,000 dollars in such work, as the regulatory committee did yesterday. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u89	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u90	Thank you. I don't know why such overpaid wages are established at all, but it's populist to say that the national MPs are supposed to be paid at the level of the Supreme Council drivers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u91	Thank you. I understand your speech, and I would like to ask that, as an MP's address, it be made for the Head of the Supreme Council. And unfortunately, there are no factions leaders, but, I think, apart from one faction leader, yes, there is one, but there are no others, it's Oleg Lazko, the Radical Party. So, please, Mr. Olege, considering what you are here alone, please contact the Conciliation Council with a call to the faction leaders that we need to choose the head of the Supreme Council's apparatus. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, that's even better. Please now give the floor to national deputy Sergei Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u92	Dear Ukrainians! Now in Kiev, it's going on tremendously, I'd say, resonant, perhaps even dangerous events. Because the historic part of Kiev is the Lviv Square, the territory of the former Blue Market, it has become a coin of exchange so that it is not just illegal to get rich, but simply to wash money of very questionable origin. Because right now, in this place that's not designed at all for this high-rise construction, there's just public resistance that doesn't allow you to build this territory and the aunts on the other hand who hired people who are trying to legalize their money because of this construction. So the Blue Market was in its normal state, functioning as the Kiev City Market until the Kyiv Corruption decided that this "gold land" should go under construction. This market was brought to the pen, then destroyed and put into the hands of the builders. Let's see who the leads are. The trails lead to offshore companies, but everyone in Kiev knows that there have been countless publications on the Internet that are behind the site of former Attorney General Jarem and his deputy Danielenko. That is, people who came after the Dignity Revolution to investigate crimes, and in fact, no one was punished. Moreover, it was in their day that they received the necessary letters of justifiable content from James Onushchenko, one of Janukovič’s associates, and Zločevski, the second of Janukovič’s associates. In their time, there was a so-called circular message, and now, a few years after they left office, their footprints are coming through, they're showing up at the site of the resonance barrier, the Blue Market, where in the historic part of Kiev, they're going to build 27-story buildings. And just so you know, it's not just, you know, a little bit of land. This is a small perimeter between existing buildings. There'll be a transport collapse, there'll be an environmental collapse. This is totally contrary to the historical scene of Kiev. But the people who have these plans, they're going, roughly speaking, through this land they're going to get the result, they're going to get the net money on the way out, they're going through the construction. I think it's in our power, in the power of carefree sneezes, to stop it. And we, as MPs, are also sending numerous MPs, we are taking part in protests. There was a mayor of Kiev last Wednesday at the site of the kickfights with aunts, but that's still not enough, because these people have a roof at the highest level. If this roof doesn't stop, this building will continue, the historic area of Kiev will continue to be destroyed and the dirty money will be washed away because of Kiev's real estate. So in my speech, I'm talking to the people who are hiding these pervs, and these people are sitting in the President's Office: stop because you're not just provoking violence against the Chinese, you're provoking impunity, and this impunity will then return to you with a boomerang. And we already had examples in the history of Ukraine when people who felt total permissiveness were then forced to flee from Ukraine. I don't want that to happen again. But every step you take, every act of lawlessness, you're only getting closer to that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u93	Please give the next speech by the National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikov. Please, Mrs. Tetyano, you have my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u94	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. This Wednesday, our tax committee finally held committee hearings on tax evasion. Many entrepreneurs from various regions of Ukraine, experts, business associations, people's deputies have been able to express their opinion and explain the actual state of affairs that has so far come about to block tax overheads. You know, it's amazing statistics. Now today, the Prime Minister, responding to a question from the National MP, said that there was no problem, because only one percent of the tax receipts were blocked. It was someone who misinformed the Prime Minister, because only during the time of the tax-blocking system, as of July 1, 90 million overheads had been entered into the registration, not all of them had been blocked. Why? Because the Ministry of Finance has relieved the system and the tax evasion of those large - business taxpayers who paid 5 million dollars in taxes last year. Therefore, under this criterion, of these 90 million large taxpayers, taxes do not block, but they continue to be in the 500 thousand - grand tax system, of which 200,000 are blocked. So what percent are we talking about? This is really 40 percent of the money that the government has taken from small and medium-sized businesses. These are Ukrainian manufacturers, carriers, transporters, builders, those with whom they purchase, for example, construction materials, and on the way out, they register a tax return on their work done. So they don't match the codes, and that's why they're blocked. The whole small and medium-sized business has been hit by this system. I believe that the Prime Minister needs to take a closer look at this situation, not to listen to the false statistics that the Ministry of Finance is giving him today. This information on 200,000 blocked overheads was officially provided by the representatives of the DFS at committee hearings, so it is reliable. And this is also fully supported by the information provided to us by the GOF in Kiev, where 36 percent of blocked overheads by number are representatives of real, legal business. Moreover, I feel that it is absolutely wrong to attach the work of this system to the unconditional compensation of VAT. As a parliament we voted with you for one chronological register, the government simply complied with that rule. But it is the duty of the state to reimburse VAT, and it is totally unfair to reimburse VAT at the expense of other people's funds that have been eliminated in small and medium-sized businesses. So put the system back in test mode and give people their VAT back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u95	Thank you, please, Svetlana. Excuse me, Svetlana Zlatchuk. I'm sorry, Mrs. Svetlana. Svetlana Zlatchuk, let me speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians and respected journalists! I want to draw your attention to one of the unprecedented stories that is now happening in Ukraine. This is the story of a Kazakh opposition woman whom Ukraine is trying to take for granted. This is at a time when we as a state are fighting for the release of our political prisoners in Russia. But at the same time, our Attorney General’s Office, our police, our courts are helping to incarcerate prominent opponents from authoritarian states, friends of Putin, by the way, who are still voting against those resolutions that are important to Ukraine on the United Nations site. This is Ficrates Huseynov from Azerbaijan, this is Narzullo Ahunzionov from Uzbekistan, and this is Inessa Labanovich, a Belarusian volunteer. But I specifically want to talk about Jean-Claude Ahmet. What happened? This Kazakh journalist who worked for the famous opposition publication "Tribune," she's one of the members of "Reporters Without Borders," she's a social media correspondent, followed by thousands of words and phrases. She is facing a situation in Kazakhstan, and she is being tried for seven years in prison. The woman fled the country, and when she arrived in Ukraine in March, she joined the Migration Service. The Migration Service refuses to send Zhenari Ahmetawi, but it does not give her the message itself, but it does send him to the police. The police are actually stealing a woman from her home, who has a nine - year - old son. They did not even say good - bye to their nine - year - old son. Moreover, the court imprisoned a woman for 60 days. Sadly, we were refused to take her into custody with a number of national deputies. It's absolutely absurd of the press secretary of the Attorney General's Office to say that this woman has a red card in Interpol, so this case is totally nonpolitical. I want to remind the Attorney General's Office that according to our Refat Chubarov, there was recently a red card in Itherpol that the Russians sent him that run this organization. The General Prosecutor’s Office is three times adjourned without having to report that a woman has been brought to court, regardless of the fact that the Lukyanian SIZO is two miles [2 km] away from the court, without any explanation, is no longer being delivered there. Excuse me, translator. What can we do? I ask the Attorney General’s Office to pay attention to this, to Mr. Jenin, so that they can do their utmost to soften the precautionary action. I would like to remind you that our Committee on Freedom of Speech and Human Rights has unanimously asked the Attorney General's Office to pay attention to this case. Ukraine should not join the camp of states that imprisoned political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Next speaker, please, Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u98	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Regrettably, the authorities today live in an illusory world. You see what's going on in the country. Resisting power structures among themselves. Instead of overcoming raids, instead of overcoming corruption and lawlessness, they engage in mutual struggles. Instead of putting this country above national leadership, it's not about modernizing the country, it's about how to bring order, it's actually thinking about future elections, how to take more power, how to do monopolism, how to put its people in office. So they don't care about the country, they care about their own interests and their own pockets. This is absolutely not the way to ensure Ukraine's Euro-integration, which is capable of modernizing our country and economic development. In order to get on the right track, you need, first of all, to want it, to want it. Second, we need to have a plan. So the Radical Party has both. I'm asking you to show a slide on the screen. In order to radically change the situation in the Ukrainian economy, we have developed a package of bills, an industrial package of reforms, put it into Parliament and insist on its immediate consideration. These are bills that will allow billions, billions of dollars of investment, create hundreds of thousands of jobs, raise wages, not by percentage, but essentially. To increase the economy not by two or three percent a year, but by two or three times a decade. It's absolutely real, it's a Ukrainian plan, a plan for modernizing the country's development. We suggest that we immediately consider in Parliament revolutionary bills on free integration into engineering networks. So that the monopolies do not rob investors to remove barriers to entry into the Ukrainian economy in order to build new factories in Ukraine, create jobs, and pay taxes. Not as it is today, looting and looting. The second initiative is industrial parks. Recently, Prime Minister Vladimir Groisman personally expressed his support for this initiative. It's creating attractive conditions for new productions in Ukraine for research centres, for us to win competition for talent, for investment, for markets in other countries, for us to create new factories and for wages there to be at least 11,000 dollars. That's the requirement of our bill. The revolutionary bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", which we recently registered, was carried out on the Committee of Economic Policy a few days ago. This means that those companies and Ukrainian manufacturers that use Ukrainian labor, energy, raw materials, materials will win tenders. Ukrainians have to win tenders because that means the well-being of our nation, the rise in citizens' incomes and the real modernization. It's the Radical Party faction. We invite everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u99	Thank you for your performance. And please, now Andrew Lozova from the Radical Party. Look, Lozkova, then Mishchenko, then Macedonia, then Shurma, then Sissyenko, Levchenko, Papiev and the last Koscheyeva. And that's the finish, finish, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u100	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. I've been seeing commercials in Facebook for days: incredible discounts from the MAU (this is the airline of the oligarch Igor Kolomoysky), incredible discounts, in Ivano-Franksky to fly back and forth $315. Think of it, $315 -- that's what they call an incredibly low price! That's 8,000 dollars, even more. Where do normal people find the money to fly so expensive? And most Ukrainian citizens, who often have to travel within our great country of origin, are forced to drive or drive or drive in situations where the flight would be more comfortable. We have today, when the whole world thanks to the Loukost companies can. It's very easy for people to move and it's accessible, so it's the privilege of those people who have big financial opportunities. Most Ukrainian citizens do not have such opportunities. Why? Because the monopolies in favor of the Ukrainian authorities actually took over the market. In view of this, most Ukrainians do not have the ability to fly cheaply, but millions of dollars, think about it, millions of dollars each day of the oligarch of Cologne earns, which is financed by, for example, the frequent guest of his villa in Geneva, Yulia Timoshenko, who was not at work last plenary week, and the whole country saw her fly. Timoshenko has money to fly the business class of the MAU to Geneva, most Ukrainians don't. Why? We have to give up the proper, valid Minister of Infrastructure Vladimir Vladimirovich Omelyan is doing everything he can to get the Loukost companies to enter Ukraine. The Monopolist of Colomaysky and the authority that helps him are essentially blocking it. Just think about the numbers and compare why in the countries that are our neighbours in Poland, Belarus, even in Romania, Slovakia, Hungary, Turkey, Moldova, most citizens even have the opportunity to fly cheap Low crowds, and there is no such possibility in Ukrainians. Are we people of any other class? Since 1993, since the first Southwest Effect Louquist, most people in the world have been able to fly cheaply in civilized countries. The Ukrainians don't have that possibility. If, in civilized countries, there are 70 percent of the locusts that create a new passenger, when there's a loukost company on the market, there's an increase in competition, and those companies that were before are forced to lower the prices they had before and improve the quality, we don't have that. The Radical Party requires power not to promote the corrupt monopolies of the Cologne company and to allow Ukrainians to fly cheaply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u101	Please, the next national MP, Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u102	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Government of Ukraine today, Prime Minister Groisman, to the deputies, and to tell you about the analysis that I have done on the basis of the facts that I have gathered in my district, because there has been a so-called pension reform for a month and a half. The reports that the government is preparing for us, they match the reality, because only 8 percent got less. And it's just list number one, and it's just industrial cities where there's big wages. As far as the village is concerned. It's a 40-50-year-old job, it's medicine, it's teachers, it's other categories that got low wages that didn't get any raises, whether they got a copy of these payments. So I want to give you an example. That's 50 phone calls in one day, only 50 phone calls in one day. In a month and a half, some 800 citizens have been outraged by this pension reform. And it's cynical that while the pension reform was under way, at the same time, the social standard on gas was reduced, which alone people receive from subsidies. Out of five cubic meters by five cubic meters. Now, what's going on? So I can read and show you some of the applicants. Yasik Olga Neciporovna, Yagotin, received 90 dollars, and the gas has to be paid 192, minus 102, from pension reform. Kornienko Mikhailo Ivanovich, a woman and a woman received 143 bracelets, had to pay 262 bracelets for gas in addition to last year's minus 118 bracelets. This is called an increase in pension reform. That's why I want to talk to everyone. That now we need to look at all the standards that have been put into this pension reform. It's necessary for Groissmann to send all of his clerics to the cities and look at it, analyze how we're doing now, who got that promotion, and why 90 percent of the population didn't get that raise, and they think it's a tax. So the appeal to all: Let us correct this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u103	Please make your next statement, Macedonia. There's no Macedonia? We're moving on. Korczyk, please give Korczyk his word. Please. And I'm going to continue our session for 15 minutes today, so everyone can speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, this week we were to spend the day of infrastructure in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, unfortunately this did not happen. And I would like none of us to diminish the importance of those bills that were put to the vote on Thursday, but we haven't been able to even get to them. These are bills such as 6766 on amending some Ukrainian legislation in the area of construction and operation of road transport, which aims at improving the legislative regulation of construction and the operation of road traffic in general public use under concessional conditions, namely: this law protects investments that could come to Ukraine for the construction of these concession roads. Bill 4642 amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding compulsory insurance for the liability of the carrier for damage to life and health of passengers and third parties. This bill is based on the need for changes in the regulatory framework in order to adapt it to the legislative provision with the European Union. Law 6644, of which I am the author, on road transport for the enforcement of road transport market participants, legislation in part of the weights and parameters, a bill aimed at protecting our roadways. Because as long as we don't spend money on our cars, if we don't take care of them, we won't have them. The laws that open the river are 2475a-d and 2475a-3, which will open the river for cheap trucks that will unload road and rail transport, and that's important. A bill amending the Air Code and a number of such bills. I'd like to go back to this question at the next meeting of the Conciliation Council, Irina Volodymyrna, and maybe take it under control so that we can put it out and vote. To conclude, I wanted to say the positive news that we are all in favour of a bill that we all voted for, namely, we opened up a green light for the customs experiment for 2018. I'll remind everyone what this is, it's 50 percent of the surpluses from customs payments in each area will go to road repair. This was introduced by the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, this experiment showed its viability. And I thank you all, all those who voted in favour of continuing this customs experiment. Thank you and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u105	The next speaker is the national deputy of Shurma, who is given the word Galchenko and Martovitchki, which means he has 6 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u106	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, there are a great deal of talk on the streets about national consciousness, national identity, national pride. What do we have instead? We have things that were never present and characteristic of Ukraine. What are we eating today? Polish potatoes, carrots from Italy, tomatoes from Spain, macaroni from Italy, greens from Turkey, we even sell bread for quick preparation made by firms from beyond the ocean, as well as drinks, I don't talk about clothes anymore, I don't talk about cars anymore, God with him, that's how the whole world lives. But in what world are experts from other nations also used? We have experts who are much smarter than the Ukrainians who were winners of the Nobel Prizes, we have, look, the minister of economy from little Lithuania, a little nuance, he's there to work on something to eat, we have a minister of health who was a citizen of Georgia who doesn't go to work, we've got railway leaders who gave more concerts than we did here, we've got Poles, we've got over 300 citizens of Georgia who used to get jobs, they live here. Where are we? Where our Ukrainians, citizens of Ukraine, are able to work for their state, and that's not the worst. Not only do we have experts from other countries, but they don't work for education. Let's see, now, at the first stage of the competition, there's no one in high office for 50 or 70 thousand dollars of wages. The second stage of the competition is starting, and higher medical education is not compulsory. What do we have as a result? We have the Ministry of Health in charge of the first persons, and the historian was a department that reformes emergency health care with economic education, an accountant. We now have a mentor who can't get a degree in higher education for the second year, and everything shows us his education at Michigan University, where he writes a doctor of medicine. We have this in comparison with the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Education has issued a nostration with the right to continue this education. Moreover, the famous Law on Rural Health Services. Great idea, great idea if you put it in. Sadly, however, even before this law was written, the medical authorities had nothing. The generator of this idea was a man with mathematical education, and so there's going to be a lot of problems in its implementation. What do we have on the exhaust? I'm sorry for the rudeness of the word, and we have a drug purchase in the international organizations today, and we haven't had a cure for the year 2015. Five percent of the 4 billion, yet to be treated. In 2016, at the end of the year, 4 billion were disbursed abroad, and only 55 percent have come to this day. And here the scream was, "Mafia, there's nothing in the hospitals!" Well, that's what you do to make sure nothing happens. 2017 No drugs have been purchased, no register is available, and that's what I'm about to do. The minister wrote that a group of professional experts had processed the application in August. September, October, November, December, nothing yet. The money will be reintroduced in December, and there will be no medicine again, and the doctors will again say that the doctors are bad. What's next? We don't even want to develop our national health care system, we're introducing an English model. The English model is 8 percent of the gross domestic product, or 140 billion pounds of sterling. If we count our money, it's 44 times less, and we want to introduce their model! And for the sake of simplicity, the impeccable orders of the culinary department have led to the abolition of today's positions of a medical doctor, a medical doctor, a teenage doctor, a vocational hospital, an expert in physical culture, a medical examiner. They were eliminated! If you want to introduce adapted names into the European community, enter new names for medical professions and medical staff, but do not eliminate the fact that people have worked their entire lives! And as of today, someone is suing the First Vice Prime Minister, and then the Prime Minister has to justify himself here! A teenager’s therapist in Ukraine’s recent history was introduced in Ukraine on the basis of new technologies and medical technologies for population services in Europe. It's been a few years, a guest comes in without an education, and it's all gone! How is that possible? The opposition block calls on the Prime Minister: stop at least the action of the order that eliminates medical and field office, do not pull people out of social rebellion. Is such a state of affairs an accident? Absolutely not! The Ministry doesn't have a parole officer for a year and a half and a half. Colleges of the Ministry of Health are not held. No matter how wise you may be, your power is when you listen to everyone, you hear them, you put that "cut of the cube" in your head and you make the right decision. And this man doesn't lead! No one needs med school. No one needs med school. No one needs med school. We insist that you apply for the post of Minister of Health! Thus, health care must not be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u107	Please give the next speech by the National MP, Mrs. Sisoyenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u108	Dear Ukrainians! 2017 became the year when the Ukrainian Parliament finally adopted two very important laws that undermine the Soviet health system. We passed the first law in April of this year on the autonomy of medical institutions when all hospitals are to become non-profit, non-profit, but enterprises. The same law completely prohibits the privatization of state and municipal hospitals. The second bill that was passed by Parliament, 6327, is a bill that is simply called "The Medical Reform". Sadly, though, with the next day of entry into force of these two laws, unfortunately, there will be no miracle in our hospitals. And whether these important two laws will become good for both the medics and the patients of our state will depend solely on one thing when the government effectively implements and implements every word, every norm of these two laws. According to the Transitional Regulations, the government has to form and adopt a large list of sub-legislative acts. Thus, the Ministry of Health will soon adopt the costing methodology for health services that the State will finally pay for. All that patients have been paying for many years in medical institutions, medical supplies at their own expense, is finally to be done by the State. But the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the adoption of regulations would be effective. In the Health Committee, we have created a subcommittee to monitor the implementation of medical reform, and the National Deputies of the MPs will regularly hold joint consultations with the government, with representatives of local self-government authorities and control, help do everything possible to ensure that those laws adopted in this Parliamentary Hall directly improve the health system in our State Municipal Hospitals throughout Ukraine. I will continue to go to every hospital, every area of Ukraine, to see how medical reform is implemented. So I invite you to work together in a health subcommittee, I invite representatives of ministries, departments, departments, medical personnel from all over Ukraine, local governments, to form and build the future of our medicine together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u109	Thank you. And now to the word of Yuri Lewchenko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u110	Lewchenko, Freedom 223rd District, Kiev. I would like to make a public appeal today to the Kyiv City Head Vitali Volodymirovich Klicka, to the community of Kiev and to the electorates of his constituency in Shevchenkov district of Kiev on the question of the illegal obstruction of the former Blue Market, which was barbaricly destroyed after its illegal privatisation under the former authorities of Kiev, and now the territory of which is illegally built at several altitudes in the historic centre of Kiev under the patronage of Kiev and, I do not know, I can say, under the roof of the best friend of all the builders of Kyiv Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klicka. The key could have stopped this building very easily. First of all, he could address himself as the Kiev City Head to the DR with the requirement to revoke the illegal license that violates the Henplan. He could have appealed to the State Department to cancel the illegal urban conditions and restrictions that had been issued by his own Department of Construction and Architecture, which he refused to call off, even though he might have called it off, and he refused to do so. But okay, you don't want to cancel, because it tells us that it's not legal, then you have to apply to the State Department, which has the right absolutely legal to cancel illegal urban conditions and cancel, then you can cancel -- that's not the case. A key could be brought before a court at the Ministry of Culture, which has issued completely illegal historical and urban grounds, which state that in the historic center of Kiev you can build buildings up to 80 meters high. And you could win this court peacefully, but Clicko doesn't. Moreover, there is a decision of the Kyiv City Council of April 2, 2015 signed by Klick, which allows the city authorities to unilaterally stop illegal barriers, using all the mechanisms that are at its disposal, for example, to physically block these illegal barriers, but not to do so. That's not how it's done, but Cliché tells us how he put out a warrant for the fence and, you see, he's doing everything he can. Well, putting up with the fence is, of course, very important, of course, the fence has to be worn, but the only question is that right after Clicco issued the prescription, yesterday the District Court canceled the application. And that was predicted. And now Klitschko tells you, you see how good I am, I've issued a warrant, the court is guilty, the court has canceled this bill. But actually, it's all a bit of a joke. Because the actual actions that could be and he would have to do to stop this building, he doesn't. So I'm calling on him right now to do all the actions that I've just listed, and I've also written it publicly on Facebook, and I've turned to him. And I'm talking to all the activists, all the sneezes. Don't buy that lie. They're hanging noodles on your ears, trying to fool you again. In fact, the city’s head is covering up the builders! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u111	Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. Please, Mr. Mikhailo. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u112	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! As always, on Fridays in a narrow circle like this, the same faces discuss the urgent issues that concern both Ukrainian nationals and Ukrainians. I, on the other hand, counted for this minute in the 28 national deputies of Ukraine. This is to be heard by our electors. Four from the People's Front, four from the WFP, three from the Non-Factional, one from the Fatherland, one from Self-Help, one from Freedom, nine from the People's Deputies of Ukraine from the Radical Party, four from the Opposition Block. This just confirms the activity that Ukraine’s national deputies should have. And, you know, this is where we have to analyze what's actually wrong with our Supreme Council of Ukraine. Here are the national deputies of Ukraine, who are members of previous vocations. We worked in the Supreme Council and in the Presidential-Parliamentary Republic under the terms of the Constitution and in the Parliamentary-Presidential Republic. But such a negative perception in the society of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in fact, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine has done, has not yet. We are, in fact, the main thing today, besides being the country's legislative body, we are the main governing body in the parliamentary-presidential republic system. Whether it is our fault as Ukrainian national deputies, or whether it is the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that has put ourselves in such a position that we are actually in some third role today. And when the state budget of Ukraine was now adopted, it confirmed once again that the weight centre had moved from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine had become some sort of auxiliary element in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Well, we don't live today in the government-presidential republic, we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. So today we have what we have. If, then, objective brothers had been able to buy 200 gallons [200 L] of gasoline at the previous criminal authority by 2013. With today’s criminal authorities, a pensioner can only buy 70 liters [70 L] of gasoline on his pension. If the conditions of the Ukrainian Soviet Republic were met, then the pensioner could buy an average of 1,200 gallons [1,200 L] of gasoline on his pension. This is what is now the reality of life. And maybe that's why we need to give priority today to the Ukrainian Electoral Code. By the way, I'm informing everyone that on Tuesday, the supply of proposals and comments by factions ends. Our faction of the Political Party, the Opposition Block, has prepared 180 pages of text. We pass because we're on our own program, and we follow it, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u113	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u114	We promised voters elections on a proportional system with open lists. The factions here also support this. It's important that Banka backs up, and then we'll have new electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u115	Thank you. My colleagues, we actually have an hour of performances under the heading "Rizzne," but the Presidium today has spent almost two hours on these performances. And we have our last speech, I give the floor to Mrs. Kochley's esteemed colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! On November 17th, Ukrainian youth, together with the international community, celebrate their day, their student day. That is why I want to dedicate my presentation today to all young Ukrainians who live both inside and outside Ukraine. The young Ukrainians today are the ones who will make her story tomorrow. And one of the biggest challenges of youth policy is the active migration of young people abroad, which takes disastrous turns every day. The problem is not new. Ukraine’s declared integration with the European Union’s shared economic and educational space has added momentum, and the loss of Ukraine’s intellectual potential has become dangerous. While the strategic goal of developed countries is to build an innovative economy, in Ukraine, starting with independence, the number of scientists has dropped threefold and the scientific value of gross domestic product has doubled and is practically the lowest in Europe. Currently, about 30 percent of those surveyed are ready to leave Ukraine for higher education and over 40 percent are ready to leave. Worst of all, the most powerful migratory moods are among young people under 30 years of age. And these are the most promising people. Over the past five years, those who have gone to a permanent place of residence have been dominated by IT technology, biology, physics, mathematics, or by the innovation of our country. For example, in Germany alone, during 2016, 25,000 young people from Ukraine received scholarships, and in neighbouring Poland, some 60,000 Ukrainian students are taught at various rates. Moreover, for Poland labour migrants are so important to economic growth that they carry out separate studies and separate statistics on labour from Ukraine. In general, more than 70 percent of Ukrainian youths want to leave abroad, and only 2 percent plan to return. This hastening pace of removal of qualified personnel from the science and technology sphere will lead to a significant technological slowdown and this is already a matter of national security. It is worth noting that the main reasons for Ukrainians to leave abroad are higher wages, better living conditions, and a desire to provide a better future for their children. At present, the priority of government policy in the field of migration is only declarative and is based on formal documents of a strategic nature. The Radical Party faction team led by Oleg Lášk has a very clear and specific anti-crisis plan for the modernization of the domestic economy, the development of the agricultural sector and the creation of new jobs. And he is working daily on its implementation so that Ukrainians can realize themselves and have a decent salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-17-m0.u117	Thank you for the talk. My colleagues, I have an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Sidorovich, to serve as the deputy head of the deputy faction of the political party "The Self-Help Union". We wish Mr. Ruslan and his factions of fruitful work in Parliament. Dear colleagues, he has just gone on important duties as deputy to the faction's head. Dear colleagues, also let me inform you that next week, November 22-23, will be the first Ukrainian Women's Congress of different levels. And this is also a very important step in the context of gender equality." Let me remind you all that next week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions. On the week from November 27 to December 1, fellow national MPs all work with the electorate. So I encourage you to visit your constituencies, visit public receptions, meet with voters, talk to them. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, December 5. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I wish everyone a fruitful weekend and fruitful work on committees, factions, and districts. Good-bye. Thank you.
