ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u2	Colleagues, please get ready for work. Please prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. And I'd like you to sign up for the evening session, please. [[16:04:51]] 357 national deputies registered. And we're moving on. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And, colleagues, I have all your requests. We now have a block of social and humanitarian policy. Almost all these bills are united and supported by factions. Here are questions of youth and sport that we did not consider on Wednesday. There's a social policy issue here. I would very much ask us to be able to go through this block intensively. I would very much ask that even when the discussion is going on, it be as concise as possible. We spent three hours discussing the electricity market, it was, of course, a fine law, we discussed it thoroughly, but we have a lot of laws waiting for our adoption and decision. So I invite you to work hard and productively. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall of everyone who's in the towers. And we're moving to the first law of the daily order, this is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on raising the level of social protection of military personnel and their families, with proposals from the President dated 07.08.2015 (number 2406). I would like to point out that this consideration takes place after a report by the committee head. I ask the committee head to approach. This happens by the second reading procedure, so the reporter and then the amendment. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u3	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Bill 2406 is proposed before your consideration. The Supreme Council Committee on Security and Defence considered the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on raising the level of social protection of military personnel and their families, as amended by the Supreme Council Regulation of 18 October 2016, taking into account proposals made by entities of the right to legislative initiative for re-introduction of the Supreme Council in connection with the failure of the President's veto. All of a sudden, there were five amendments that were included. A comparative table is given, and it is accepted by the Chief Legal Authority. The members of the committee decided to unanimously support the outcome of the reexamination and to adopt it as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u4	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. 1 amendment, Andrew Antonishtak. Please turn on the microphone, Andrew Antonishtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I ask you to stop adopting this law, the bill, being politicians, being united, because this bill applies to everyone. We have a country fighting today. The representatives of Donbas, Zacarpathia, Chernigiv, Kiev are fighting. I just want to give you an example of what we're proposing. We suggest an increase in payments to the families of the dead, to the disabled, to the third and third groups. I'll just give you the numbers. Payments to families who have died from $250,000 to 500 million, to 580 million, from 400,000 to 617 thousand in the first group, the second group from 300,000 to 463,000, and the third group from 250 to 250.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u6	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u7	Up to 386,000 dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, all factions, you state officials, unite, please, around the adoption of this bill. The boys on the front don't die for Ukraine, the boys on the front are killing for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u8	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, Mr. Antonishtak's rights are taken into account. I ask you to support the bill as a whole, including this amendment. And I fully agree with the speech of the previous speaker. We have, thank God, financial possibilities now, the budget is changing, despite the provocation of the patriot pseudo, the blockade and everything else, the feudal provocations, we can afford it. And I want to do it again. I support this amendment. And please, indeed, now the heads of factions invite MPs. It would be a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament if we failed this bill now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u10	Thank you. Third right, Andrew Lozový. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u11	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Tell me, please, what are the best of the best men who risk their lives and health for freedom every day, for peace in the country, for unity, for assembly, for the return of our territories, for fighting a very difficult enemy, for Moscow, for which they are fighting if the state is not capable of their best. Their families, who do not know, are waiting at home for their father, brother, son, friend, without social protection at the proper level. I think it should be embarrassing for every MP who does not vote in favour of this law. It's very sad that there was a presidential veto, and we have to beat it now. I wish there was unity now and there was no politics on those issues. In many countries, such as Japan, the main elite of the state is military aristocracy. We now have Europe's most powerful army and must appreciate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u12	Let me remind you, it's not a veto, it's just 226 votes. I'll give you an accent, 226 votes. And our main task right now is to invite all the fellow MPs into the hall and maximize the factions. Colleagues, we're done talking about the amendments. We had a big discussion with Minfin on the subject. And that's why I'm giving the floor to Deputy Finance Minister Andrew Ivanovich Grill. Turn on the microphone, please, in the government box.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u13	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance fully supports the need to strengthen State guarantees for those who have been injured in a conflict zone and when performing military duties. It is therefore appropriate to provide for increased assistance in the proposed bill for those involved in hostilities or in military service. Proposals by the Ministry of Finance regarding the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on raising the level of social protection of military personnel and their families. Article 16, paragraph 1 (a), para. The Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Their Families. The bill proposes the addition in the following edition: "750 times the minimum living minimum set for working persons on 1 January of the calendar year in the event of the death, death of a soldier, a military officer or a reserve, in the cases referred to in article 16, paragraph 2, paragraph 1, of this law"; "a 500-fold subsistence minimum set for working persons on 1 January of the calendar year, in the event of death, death of a military officer, a military officer or a reserve, in the cases referred to in paragraphs 2-3(2) of Article 16 of this Act." For the sake of clarity and clarity in the application of the law, the text of the new article 16 prime is proposed. 2 The Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families stipulates that the subsistence minimum is set for working persons on 1 January of the calendar year. In this regard, in paragraph (b) of the new article 16, prime. 2 The Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, as amended by the bill after the words "profit minimum set for working persons" add with words and figures: "On 1 January of the calendar year." Three. In article 162, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, the bill suggests that the amount of one-off cash assistance may not be less than 70 times the subsistence minimum set for working persons on 1 January of the calendar year. And the last. In the new section 6 of article 21 of the Ukrainian Act on Combating Terrorism, which proposes to supplement the mentioned article with the words "On Social and Legal Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families" replace the words "On Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families" and "On National Police" respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, Irina Lucenko, one minute. Representative of the President to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, colleagues, please come into the hall. Please invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the reason for the return of the President of Ukraine to this law for a re-examination by Parliament is precisely the conclusion of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, with a comment on the State's financial capacity. In view of the noted and bugged by the Deputy Minister of Finance, please support the amendments of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and allow the adoption of the law in the form that will be supported if approved by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u16	Thank you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, and let's proceed to the vote. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address everyone again. Despite not being able to count the money stolen by Yanukovich because of the corruption of the Supreme Council against the budget, despite the fact that the forces of the pro-Russian elements of our country are causing enormous economic damage, the government has now achieved that we have an overturning of the state budget by about 15 percent. I'm very grateful, this is one of the few examples where the Ministry of Finance supports a social law related to enhancing the protection of all categories of military personnel, starting with disability, death, at the same time, I want to emphasize once again -- at the same time. And it will be a shame for the entire Supreme Council if we fail this bill now. Everyone concentrate, please forget our interfractional disagreements and vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u18	Please turn on the Pashinski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u19	Given the legal and legal rights, including the sound and the Ministry of Finance, the entire Ministry of Finance supports the text of the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u20	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, this is a very important vote. This bill has long been passed by Andrew Antonishtak and other fighters, and ATO participants have sought to have it voted in the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And I, my colleagues, have put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on raising the level of social protection of military personnel and their families" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 07.08.2015, with a proposal made by Irina Lucenko, and the text was delivered by the Deputy Minister of Finance and was supported by the Committee (number 2406) as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with technical and legal rights. Colleagues in charge of the bill, I ask everyone to vote responsibly. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We will support our fighters and their families. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[16:19:16]] For 222 We didn't make it, colleagues. I'll be back in a minute. Please take up jobs. Please do not discuss these important bills, and please vote. Please take your jobs. I'll be back in a minute. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite me to the hall. Colleagues outside the hall, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I'm voting on the proposal to return to the Ukrainian Law 2406, asking everyone to take a seat and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, each voice weighs, please take up jobs. Please take your seats, and I'm proposing to return to the 2406 vote. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support. Please vote. [[16:20:46]] For 235 We're back. And I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on raising the level of social protection of military personnel and members of their families, as amended by Irina Lucenko, and under the transcript by Grill Andriy Ivanovich, Deputy Minister of Finance, as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and technical and legal regulations (number 2406). Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:21:31]] For 249 The law is passed. Colleagues, the following few laws, I stress, are very simple to consider. I'm asking everyone to work very closely. The next is Law 5564, the draft Act amending article 42 of the Ukrainian Labour Code on the protection of workers of pre-pensional age (5564). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:22:17]] For-162 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Biozore Oksana Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u21	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Now we're going to consider a very simple bill with you, but from a very important, very humane one, and for a large number of our Ukrainian citizens, it will remove tension and anxiety, especially if the issue concerns pension reform. The draft Act amending article 42 of the Labour Code of Ukraine (on the protection of labour rights for workers of pre-retirement age) was initiated with the aim of protecting the social rights of Ukrainian citizens who have three or less years left to retire. Article 42 of the Labour Code of Ukraine defines a number of categories of workers who are given the most right to leave work when the number or state of workers is reduced due to changes in the organization of labour production. There are only nine of these categories in this list. This is the list of employees who are given an advantage under equal conditions of productivity and qualifications at a given enterprise. However, such formulation does not directly favour the preservation of employment for older workers, since the internship factor is secondary and comparable to the quality and productivity of the work. It should be noted that the Ukrainian Labour Code prohibits discrimination against older workers – article 2 has been acquired. In 2015, you received national MPs. At the same time, sociological research has shown that such practices continue and, in particular, when workers are released. Of particular concern is the fact that it is quite difficult to find work for those who have a few years to reach retirement age. Thus, there is a need to supplement article 42 of the Code of Laws on Ukraine’s work with a norm, according to which, under equal conditions of productivity and competence, there is an advantage in leaving work, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u22	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u23	These include those who have less than three years left before retirement. The Ministry supports, the Pension Fund supports, the unions support. Please also have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u24	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy’s subcommittee Drozdik Alexander Valeriyovich. And I have a huge request as concise as possible, Mr. Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u25	Thank you. At its February 22nd meeting, the Honourable People's Deputies Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions considered a bill (No. 5564) amending article 42 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine on the Protection of Employment Rights of Pre-Retirement Workers. The bill proposes that article 42 of the Labour Code should be supplemented by a standard whereby workers under the age of 3 or less are given the right to leave work when they are released in connection with a reduction. I want to point out that it's really hard to find a new job for workers who have a few years left before they retire. And despite the fact that age discrimination in Ukraine's labour market is prohibited by legislation, unfortunately there are cases in practice that say that there are such violations of labour rights, because employers prefer to recruit staff. There are also difficulties in adapting such pre-pensive persons to new working conditions by applying new technologies. At the same time, I would like to remind you that on January 11, 2015, article 49 of the Employment Act was deleted, which provided for a five-and-a-half-year retirement period. Thus, the adoption of this rule of law will provide additional protection for the specified category of workers. The main scientific and expert office supports the bill in the first reading on the basis and the committee also proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you and ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u26	Thank you, colleagues. It's only a bill on the ground. Colleagues are willing to discuss, right? Okay. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Colleagues, while the recording is going on, we have two forms of work: one – or we will discuss in full, and we will not be able to go through the agenda; the other – or we will discuss very briefly. In advance, there are many important laws that apply to parking spaces for people with disabilities, which again apply to humanitarian aid for the sick. If we can work hard, we'll adopt more laws. I'm always in the middle of a full discussion, but in this case, I'm asking as much as possible to adopt more laws. And I look forward to the understanding and responsibility of all the national MPs. Please "self-help", Kostenko Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u27	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, the bill proposes measures to prevent the release of people of pre-pensionable age as part of a reduction in enterprises in the country. It's about people who have less than three years left to work before they retire. It is clear that this category of people needs to be protected in line with international standards, the interests of workers and the interests of the State that invests spend billions of dollars in order to reach pensions to the minimum. Because many people do not have enough insurance, so they receive a modest pension. Additional guarantees are essential for the elderly. The priority right to preserve the work of older persons is exercised in many countries with a developed economy. But I want to say that these dot changes are unlikely to solve systemic problems that cause low pensions. While the pension system is in need of major reform, Parliament is unfortunately working on cosmetic changes and additions to the Labour Code. Just think: This year, the pension deficit is nearly 142 billion dollars. Clearly, today’s system of solidarity is bankrupt and needs immediate reform. And those older workers who pay, especially the EU, are among those who fill the income part of the Pension Fund. Well, for example, what we could do to make the situation a little bit more even: bring the system together. In particular, experts estimate that 90 billion dollars make up a variety of social benefits and allowances paid by the Pension Fund. These benefits have nothing to do with the pension. If this is taken out of the budget of the Pension Fund and transferred to Minnesota, it is only by doing so that the pension deficit can be reduced by 50 billion dollars. Self-help supports in the first reading, maybe in general, if there's any change, this law. But we demand a review of a system law that will ensure a decent life and a decent pension for our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u29	"Paternity." Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u30	In support of the previous colleague's speech, I want to thank Oksana Bilozer for a very simple but very important bill. This has nothing to do with whether we will accept pension reform or not, it has to do with the terrible problem of inequality between people and women of pre - retirement age. It touches all government officials, it touches business structures. If you have three years to retire, and then you can't find a job, you won't get a decent pension. Therefore, such questions are addressed to the deputies at each meeting. I'm asking everyone to support this bill. This is the support of people who have worked their entire lives for our country. That's about pension reform. We're looking at the bill, not just what it was put into the agenda, but the next day we're going to be looking at it in the hall. Pension reform needs to be discussed. In the "Fatherland" faction, we're prepared to answer for our future generations, not to commit fraud, to open state-owned private pension funds and to issue government loans under them. And that's why we encourage both the government and the Ministry of Social Policy to start round tables, to start talking to the deputies on the issue of pension reform, so that we don't "stretch" it without reading it in this room. It's very important. Thank you. And the law has to be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u31	Thank you. I'm reminding you. That we're looking at Bill 5564. Everyone has a day’s order, and everyone sees how important the bills are. And so I continue to urge, as much as possible, to speak out as easily as possible so that we can adopt as many laws as possible. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Paul Kishkar. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u32	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Using the chairman’s requirement, I will be brief. I would like a colleague to support this bill, and I agree with Mrs. Kugel that the issue of pension reform needs to be studied more deeply both in this room and in the relevant committee and in society as a whole. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u33	Thank you, thank you for your understanding, for your support. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, who have been prepared by today's authorities for a pension reform, can read each of you in the published memorandum of the International Monetary Fund. Instead of creating jobs, modernizing the Ukrainian industry, wasting credit to be available to the national business, we are offered an increase in retirement age, an increase in employment, which gives us the right to a pension. If you, honourable members of the Compradorian Coalition, really want to help people of pre-retirement age, I demand that you bring to Parliament a bill that the President vetoed, a law authorizing deputies from the Radical Party that women, Ukrainian women, have the right to retire at 55 years of age on the condition that they have 30 years of internship. I demand that the government of Groysman, from the Comprador coalition, vote immediately in Parliament on the Retirement Act. Half a million people in Ukraine receive less than a thousand dollars. Millions of Ukrainians, who had 30 or 40 years of service after 50 years of service, receive a copycat’s pension. It's not up to date, it hasn't been counted since 2012. Thanks to the Radical Party, minimum wages have been raised. As a result, the Pension Fund’s budget is overturned. We demand an increase in pensions, an opportunity for people to get normal pensions. Well, finally. If you really want to help people of pre-retirement age to retire and get a normal pension, you have to raise wages. So we registered a minimum wage law of 5,000 dollars. And I call for this law to be voted on. And get over it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u35	Guys, I'm about to make my last speech. That's why I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Go in and prepare for the decision. From the Opposition Block, Royal, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! We have been thoroughly familiar with the draft law and believe that it is worth supporting in general. Today, everyone knows that Ukrainian pensioners are the most vulnerable category of the population. And what the government is doing today in the pension system is not trying to improve the situation, it's trying to eliminate the Pension Fund and transfer all pensioners to minimum social benefits. In Parliament we have registered Bill 5724, which we now demand to increase the minimum pension to 3,000 dollars. The bill clearly states what to do and how to do it. So we say, let's think of it as a front and find consensus in the hall. So do we. to report urgently to the government on the social situation. Because thanks to the benefits of today’s authority, 90 percent of pensioners are now outside the poverty line, receiving a pension lower than the actual subsistence minimum. Real minimum and average pensions have been reduced nearly threefold, and now the minimum pension is almost $45. In just three years, the actual deficit of the Pension Fund increased 1.7 times. Think about it! And it's all because of the mistakes that were made here when you looked at the sole social contribution. The pension deficit has increased by 96 billion dollars! That's four tranches of IMF! This is the kind of money that you didn't get the Pension Fund because of your mistake. So we demand that we review pensions and correct those mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, one minute, Drozdik Alexander Valeriyovich. Please turn on Drozdik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u38	I wanted to add that the bill in general could be supported and voted. But I'm tasking the Legal Office to work with technical legal rights. Because there were little technical points to the bill. So if there is such support, please support and vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u39	Okay. Please, from the non-fractional 30 seconds, Sergey Mishchenko. And if you'll excuse me, we're going to vote now. Please, Mischenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. We really should thank Oksani for this bill. Because the urgent problem of hiring pre-retirement people is not solved by this bill, but those who are at work and through the restructuring of the enterprise can be released from this job, and now the unique cases in this, I propose it in a different way to be accepted as a whole. We're told by the science department.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u41	30 seconds. You promised you'd say change, not talk about the bill as a whole. 30 seconds, please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u42	Then I propose. That the Science Administration made one point. That in the name of the law, in the name, not in the text, but in the name of the law. Pre-retirement workers, these are the people who, up to two years old, have been left to retire, the text of the law suggests that they are people who are three years old. So you just have to change the name of the law and say that this law is for the protection of workers' rights. And a dot, no pre-pension age. Then everything goes out and there is no need for legal subtleties. And so they passed this law in general with this law in the name of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u43	Is the committee okay? I'm good. Okay, let's put it to a vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 42 of the Code of Labour Laws for Ukraine on the protection of workers' labour rights, without "pre-pension age" (number 5564) with technical and legal rights on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We also vote on the basis of a total of 5564. Vote. Please vote. [[16:40:37]] For 239. The law is passed. Colleagues, the next will be an important law, but before that, there's an application for a break from two factions of the Radical Party and Self-Help. They're ready to take a break. I'll have three minutes of the show. Ah, "Paternal" and "self-help," right? Three minutes of the show, colleagues, and take your seats, then we go straight to the next draft of Law 5629. Please, who's going to perform? Oleg Berezuk? Yegor Sobolev. Please, Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u44	We often talk not only in this room about Russia occupying a vast part of not only Ukrainian land, but also Ukrainian politics, Ukrainian economy, Ukrainian media. It seems that even we do not imagine the true extent of this occupation. I ask every Ukrainian national deputy to pay attention to the video that is being distributed today, which shows how the person who was brought to this room on March 15th was behind this rostrum, who is in the form of Ukrainian police, and in 2014 is among the so-called Battles of the So-called East Battalion, which consisted of traitors, first of all from the Daughter Alpha, was organized by the then head of the Donetsk "Alpha" Hodakovsky. And Yuri Goluban, mentioned earlier, was preparing with Hodakovsky, on this video, for the attack on Ukrainian soldiers. This is a video, the date of his publication, the date of his shooting will be identified by the Donbas Battalion fighters as preparing to attack them under Karlovy Vary. In this battle, Ukrainian traitors from the East battalion killed five Ukrainian soldiers. Next, one of them was cut out of his heart, tied to the CAMAZ on this video, and drove down the streets of the occupied Ukrainian city. I know that Yuri Doluban has already admitted that he is in this video. He says it's a mounted part, and it's actually cut out of another operation, from other shots. You and I have been asked by the Attorney General’s Office, the Ukrainian Security Service to investigate how Yuri Goluban approached and appeared in the Supreme Council Hall and what his connections to Hodakovsky and other traitors to Ukraine. More than two weeks have passed since then. We ask the Speaker of Parliament to immediately call on the Attorney General, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to inform Parliament of the circumstances of this investigation, which has been established with regard to this officer who is now in the form of the Ukrainian police. Similarly, we ask that the results of the parliamentary investigation be made public as Yuri Doluban appeared in the Supreme Council Hall. In our view, it is a deadly danger to the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing the responsibility for parking, parking, parking, and parking of vehicles in places intended for disabled persons (5629). Please support the consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. We're voting on our colleagues. [[16:45:00]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the National Police of the Ukraine of Trojan Vadim Anatoliyovich. From the rostrum, please, Mr. Troyan. Vadim Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u46	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! Today, you have before you a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislation on increasing the responsibility for parking, parking, parking, parking of vehicles in places designed for people with disabilities. Designed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by the President-designate of Ukraine on the rights of persons with disabilities by Suskhevich Valeri Mikhailovich. The project envisages amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, which will allow legislative protection of the rights of persons with disabilities or drivers who transport persons with disabilities to free parking or parking in specially equipped places with road signs and markings. The bill also proposes to increase the responsibility for stopping or parking vehicles in places designed for disabled drivers or drivers carrying persons with disabilities, as well as to prevent drivers with disabilities or drivers carrying them. Please support and vote on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u47	Thank you. Thank you. Palamarczuk is invited to the report. Please. I'm sorry, Troyan Vadim Anatoliyovich is the deputy minister. I'm sorry I said that, and I was wrong, Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u48	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A law enforcement committee has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend the responsibility for parking, parking, parking, and parking for persons with disabilities (registration number 5629). The project proposes to amend articles 122, 152 with the symbol 1 and 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, which establishes responsibility for stopping or parking vehicles in places marked with appropriate road signs, where only disabled drivers are allowed to stop. According to article 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, it is proposed to empower officials of the National Police to draw up protocols on the above-mentioned administrative violations. It is also proposed that officials authorized by the Rural (rural) Committee, city councils, and members of public organizations of persons with disabilities be granted the right to do so. The committee noted that the adoption of the bill would allow legislative protection of the right of persons with disabilities or drivers who carry persons with disabilities to free parking in specially equipped places with road signs and markings. The committee therefore decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main science-expert management is of the same opinion. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, according to the information provided by the apparatus, all factions of Parliament support the initiative. Are they willing to discuss? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u50	Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u51	The People's Front faction is proposing and supporting, voting for this bill. It is just one of the first steps toward the attitude of people with disabilities who need attention and support from the whole society. This is the first step in providing unhindered parking places for disabled people who travel by car. We have a lot to do in order to have all the places equipped with the most convenient transitions for people who move by wheelchair, and this will be a demonstration of our, in fact, humanitarian attitude, humane treatment of people who need much attention from society and the state. We have to vote in favour. And I urge all the national MPs to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u52	Now, dear fellows, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Costenko of Self-Help passes the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u53	Irina Sisoyenko. Irina Sisoyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u54	Ah, Irina Sisoyenko. You can't see much from the rostrum. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill. It is fully in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Part of Housing, Social and Cultural Accessibility. The bill also lays down administrative responsibility for violations that take place in relation to persons with disabilities, namely, the bill provides for administrative responsibility for stopping or parking vehicles in places where stop or parking is permitted exclusively for disabled drivers. There is also responsibility for parking on specially equipped or designated areas. Administrative commissions are also given the right to deal with administrative misconduct in rural, rural, and urban bodies. In addition, it is also granted the authority of the National Police to deal with relevant cases of administrative misconduct. The bill provides for the possibility of free parking of vehicles operated by disabled drivers or drivers carrying persons with disabilities on specially equipped or removed sites. So the self-help faction will support this bill in the first reading as one that will be very useful in all the rights of people with disabilities. But I also point out to the entire Parliament that we have to adopt legislation that will do everything possible to make the number of people with disabilities in our country as small as possible. And there's a bill in Parliament for the faction of self-help on a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u56	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u57	There is an extremely important bill of self-help faction on disability prevention and a comprehensive system of rehabilitation, which is essentially meant to create a state programme, programs at the level of local self-government -- and to improve health care for people with disabilities, and to do everything to make people with disabilities as little as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u58	Please, from the Rebirth Group, Anton Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u59	Respectable colleagues may have said enough words. We support, our group, the bill. And just so that I do not speak for a long time, I ask all my colleagues to vote, to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u60	Please, Mrs. Royal of the Opposition Block. And everyone who hasn't been able to sign up, factions, let's give everyone a word, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that a government bill in general deserves support. But raising a fine is not a decision to protect people with needs. And it's socially fair to look at the issue more comprehensively and, above all, it's raising social benefits and pensions for people with needs. As well as the payment of pensions to care for people with needs. Today, it is wonderful that perhaps for the first time in three years Parliament has finally found time to consider social issues. But I want to make a point and I want you to know that the questions that we're going to get answers to today are just spreading. And first of all, it's a matter of signing a Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund by the government of Ukraine. And first of all, these are the social risks and consequences that it carries. I want to pay attention, Mr. Speaker, to what is the registered decision that we require the Cabinet of Ministers to tell us in detail to the people of Ukraine, to which they have changed one billion dollars, because this is a very relevant issue today, and we want to see how they will implement this Memorandum and what global risks will be for our citizens. Because now what we've seen is shocking information, and no billion dollars is worth our future country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u62	Thank you. Colleagues, we have a very tense and long schedule of our work, and a lot of bills, so in a minute, please. He's a bad guy. Then – Lord Ariev. And then there's Eutusek. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't say. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u63	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. Today, Ukraine has been given a visa-free regime, but much. It's beautiful, of course. More importantly, the European standard of living. And including the human attitude, it is humane toward people with special needs. The whole country was hit by the story of Anatoly Bartholomew, the blind, the disabled and the group that was not allowed on the subway in Kiev with the guide dog. The story of Eugene Gabrieluk, who can't get into a wheelchair, is that there's no way to get on the subway properly. And it's a shame and a great shame. I urge you, colleagues, to now support this bill unequivocally, to gather votes. And all the local authorities in every city, region of Ukraine, work every day to ensure that people with special needs do not feel unnecessary and feel that they are the same people we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u64	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Ariev of the BP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, I have often had to observe that in Ukraine people with disabilities are well fed and healthy car owners. And they don't care about these badges at all. We will now do a very important job by increasing the responsibility for parking in places reserved for people with special needs. But we, I want to emphasize, we're doing a fragmented thing again. We were all very happy today with the visa-free regime, and today we are all wearing this tape that supported the visa-free regime. But we have not yet been able to accept – already the third attempt in the Supreme Council – a bill that will generally make parking in Ukraine according to European standards. Bill 5364 to be adopted. And finally, in Ukraine, to stop the "parking Armageddon," that's when it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u66	Thank you. Please make your last speech, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u67	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I will now say that the Fatherland faction supports this bill, which improves the ability to move for the disabled. We're clearly saying now that the bill provides for a system of fines for those people who have no disability, but try to park their cars in places that are equipped for the disabled. This system of fines is also intended for unscrupulous operators who are to set up parking sites, places where disabled persons can park. Therefore, a fine of 120 to 150 untaxed minimums is imposed for the repetitive, neglect, or resubmission of a protocol to such owners. And one more point, chief, is that representatives of public organizations are given the right to fine, to make a protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u68	Colleagues, discussion is over. Please come into the hall. And I want to answer that. I hear a statement every day about the bill that needs to be put in place. I propose as a reform of Parliament that we do not do two, but three weeks of work, there are no votes in the room. I suggest we cancel break 12-12. 30 — no votes, no colleagues. So I'm asking that we have a causal link. I propose more effective work for Parliament and ask for support for those initiatives that will enable us to consider more legislative acts. By the way, we're going to put the daily bills back in order, and there's going to be bills for reform of parliament and a bill to cancel the break of 12-12.30. Please be supportive. And in this way, we will all make the work of Parliament more effective. Now, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase the responsibility for parking, parking, parking, parking of vehicles to places designed for people with special needs, on a base, just on a basis (room 5629). Please vote and please support. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:01:47]] For 266 Decision taken. This is the basis. I've read the name like you, between the first and the second readings you'll be able to make your report. Now, colleagues, before the next bill came a statement from two factions on the break, from the People's Front faction and the Radical Party. They're ready to replace the break with a tribune. And I invite you to speak from two factions of Anton Heraszczenko. Please, Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! As for the self-help faction, it was reported that Colonel Yuri Goluban of the Ukrainian Police was a member of illegal military formations and was involved in terrorist activities in the spring of 2013. Yuri Goluban, who, along with other police officers, was beaten down by the National MP Parasuk a few weeks ago, wrote a statement on March 16th on behalf of the Attorney General asking to check false information about his involvement in terrorist activities in the spring of 14. On March 17, the application was registered at the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Following this statement, the Attorney General’s Office, along with the Security Service, should verify all the facts presented by Mr. Douban. This statement is widely used by the media. If we're here, in the Supreme Council Hall, we're going to slander each and every one of us from the words of the terrorists and use a video that's not tested that can be faked, then we're going to play with you and we're going to fight and we're going to lose this country. That's why there's the Attorney General's office. She's running a background check. This will be followed by an official statement by the Attorney General, which has led to the knowledge of the people's deputies and of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u70	Thank you. Replica, Parasuk, one minute. It was called a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u71	I haven't spoken here since the beginning of this whole conflict, but I'll tell you. A group of people who were on a commercial roadblock were stopped at one of the roadblocks. They checked all the documents, checked the cars, checked all the people, rewrote the data, photographed it, and released it. Then a group of strangers blocked the road, started shooting at my head, using gas, tear gas. Tell me, please, you men, who are most of you here, how would you behave if your sister or your father were simply beaten or put face to face in the ground, I think your behavior would be the same as mine. I want to apologize for my uncensored speech and not for my actions. Because half-Don police are latent separatists who gave up our state in the 14th year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u72	Colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine (number 4556). And I would like to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:05:11]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambir Mikola Ivanovich. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u73	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill that I'm introducing is designed to simplify the procedure for granting special merit pensions. If, today, a pensioner who is entitled to a special merit pension has come to file a pension, he will submit a pension certificate to the Pension Fund, and in addition, he will have to submit documents that grant a pension for special merit, to the District Administration of the Pension Fund or in some areas, to the Social Security Authority. In order to make the procedure simple, we propose that all documents be placed in one place: to submit to the Pension Fund Administration, which according to the regulations, according to the order for the assignment of pensions will assign a special benefit at the same time and together with the general pension. In addition, the bill foresees that the size of the special merit allowance will be determined by the scheme for determining the size of the allowances. Such a scheme was approved before the 12th year by the Commission at the Cabinet of Ministers. This committee is not working today. And we're proposing that this scheme be approved by the cosmopolitans. In addition, the bill contains some technical standards that are regulated, clarifying the procedure for the complaint of the Pension Fund's decision to appoint or refuse special merit pensions, aligning other issues that are now referred to the assignment of pensions and for simplicity, so that a person can simply and quickly assign such a pension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u74	Thank you. Before inviting a co-rapporteur, I want to inform you that we have, in fact, people's deputies coming up to me and stressing that there is today a block of "inclusion in the agenda of the day session." After that, we will vote on them. I ask you to reconsider, they are all in the order of the day marked in advance, after which there will be no discussion, but only a vote. There, if I'm not mistaken, 12 draft laws, and each of them will be voted on after this bill. The co-report invites the head of the Social Policy Committee Committee Drauk Sergey. Please, from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The bill only regulates legislatively the mechanism for the appointment of a special merit pension. That is, the project does not apply to the re-size of pensions, the conditions of their appointment, or to persons entitled to pensions for special merit before Ukraine. The Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions reviewed and supported the draft law at its meeting on June 1, 2016. According to the committees, the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation and does not have an impact on the budget. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports this legislative proposal, but it gives some observations. While sharing the authors' opinion on the adoption of a bill that would simplify the procedure for the appointment of special merit pensions, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft bill to be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u76	Thank you. Colleagues, are they willing to discuss the bill? Yes. Turn two in, two in, please. Scissor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u77	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, it is clear that we should respect our pensioners, especially those who have done much for Ukraine, both in labour and in military activities. Sadly, though, we keep talking about some well - deserved pensions, even though I remember how Korczak was here yesterday, who deserved to pay 200 thousand dollars for a job she did not do. And I have a feeling that half of the pensioners with earned pensions were getting about the same. So we need to figure out what's worse, let's say, the railroad worker who's been putting up 30 years, she's getting a social pension, and the person who was sitting in the office wasn't making a high salary, she was doing a lot of credit to the state. The Radical Party requires a different approach. We have to raise pensions, we have to think about those who get it today, those half a million people who only get 947 pensions that they can't live on at all. We have to think about people who haven't been counted for a long job since 2012. We have to think about what today we have to raise, as a minimum, up to 2-2.5 thousand dollars of pension for every pensioner, because on such pensions a pensioner can't survive, he can't work. And we're thinking about what? On the rise of retirement, we're thinking about freezing social spending on pensioners. This is not social policy. Our Constitution clearly stipulates that Ukraine is a social state, and worrying about the weaker is the first task of our parliament. So without denying that this law should be upheld. I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Social Policy to the global issue of pension reform. And if they're looking at these issues, we have to move away from merit pensions to a normal, high-quality, secure pension for each retiree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u78	Thank you. Melnik Sergey Ivanovich from Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! I mean, it's not about the size of pensions, it's about the procedure. And as a former city head, I want to say that earlier, as it was before. They bring you a catalogue, a commission, everyone. a person submits all the documents, then submits to the district commission, and this procedure lasts. I think that's very correct: we simplify the procedure, that's the pension fund issue. The only thing I'd like to add is that from the time we define special merit, the Pension Fund has to do it automatically without submitting a human claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u80	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u81	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Fellow Members, the bill determines that the Pension Fund should remain the only body that sets pensions for special merit before Ukraine, which is paid from the State Budget. In addition, it is necessary to clearly determine who is applying to the Pension Fund for special merit pensions and what may be the basis for refusing such a pension. The difficulty of assessing the acceptability of further presence in one list with war heroes, war veterans, with Ukraine’s heroes former MPs and government officials of the former U.S.R. What might be the special merit of those who actually represented the authority of the vertical. the former Soviet occupation regime in Ukraine? If we're going to talk about specialty, why don't we include in this list of heroes of the modern Russian-Ukrainian war for independence? Next, I have an impression of some "parallel reality": how can we talk about specialty without cancelling a disgraceful, actually, 15 percent tax on working pensioners? In this session room, we were promised in 2015 that this is an exceptional temporary measure to stabilize the financial situation in Ukraine. The year 2017 is already coming, and even the government is shyly silent about it. Next, if we're talking today about the absence of a transparent register of so-called "pecpension" allowances, in fact today this situation is completely not transparent. In 2017, according to various estimates, allowances and special benefits amount to 62 billion dollars. How many extras are hidden in other articles? I don't understand. Therefore, reforming the solidarity system, verifying pensioners in a single register, and making the process of counting and paying pensions absolutely transparent for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u82	Thank you. Eutusek gives to Odarchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the proposed bill contains one positive innovation and a large number of negative ones. At the moment, the Ukrainian Pension Fund has set up a pension allowance for special credits to Ukraine. But there are a few cases where it's set up by the central executive authority or local government administrations, it refers to pensions for heroin mothers and pensions for persons who have won war medals. The drafters plan to establish a single order for the establishment of allowances through the Pension Fund of Ukraine. And this unification, from our point of view, is correct, but it should be noted that this money is the only money that is justified in the explanatory note to the bill. All other positions in the note are not mentioned at all, and the reasons for their acceptance are unclear. Thus it is proposed that the Pension Fund be empowered to determine the specific amount of the allowance on the basis of a legal act. It is not clear whether the act will set specific amounts of allowances for each important case or whether the official of the Pension Fund will be given corrupt powers, deciding whose merits are greater and how much should be assigned. Also unfavorable is the position that a person himself should apply for a special merit pension. At the present time, government authorities or local self - government have given special credit for the granting of pensions, and this is true, since modesty does not allow all to write a claim on their own that they have special merit before their Father. The bill also allows the reduction of pensions for special merit before Ukraine. This will be possible if the legislation provides for smaller amounts of allowances than they.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u84	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, this bill can be adopted in the first reading, but it needs to be seriously worked out in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u86	Thank you. Colleagues, this is our final speech, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. From the Opposition Block, Natalia Kraljevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that a government bill in general deserves support. But I have an important addition, which relates to the list of individuals to whom a special merit pension is established before Ukraine. So far, there are eight categories in this list. These are heroes rewarded with appropriate medals and medals; they are Olympic and Paralympic champions; they are cosmonauts; many child mothers who have given birth and are worthy of raising five or more children. But in addition, there are two completely inappropriate categories in this list, in my opinion, which are national MPs and four or more appeals to local self-government authorities. Obviously, it's a completely socially unfair norm: assigning pension allowances to deputies. No pension benefits from national deputies, the local authorities today have no right. Let's be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u88	Thank you. 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u89	And so I propose to add a complement to Project 4556, and delete paragraph 5 and article 1, paragraph 7, of the Pensions and Pensions Act. For special thanks to Ukraine. So we're now going to cancel the allowances for the pensions of the national deputies and the deputies of four or more appeals to local self-government bodies. That's what we're doing, and it's really going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. Now we're going to vote in favour of the bill, and then we're going to vote in favour of the day-to-day session. I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, and I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. I would like to point out that draft Law 4556 is only a basis. All the suggestions and corrections that have been made can be sounded and added between the first and the second readings. Just on the ground. And I ask everyone to support this bill. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine (No. 4556) as a basis. Colleagues, just on the ground. Please vote. Please support 4556 on a base. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:19:54]] For 217 I'll put it back once. Invite the deputies into the hall, I'll put them on the way back. Please invite deputies and take your seats in the hall. So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs, and I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Law 4556. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Back to 4556, please support. Not enough votes, each vote matters. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:20:59]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] One voice. I see. Please take the job. Yes, please. Colleagues, I'm going to go back to 4556, and then I'm going to put it back on the ground. Please support the return to 4556. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:21:37]] For 221 Second reading, to be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. I'm asking you to support this proposal. I think it'll be acceptable for everyone. I propose that Law 4556 be sent to the committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Please support, let's save the bill, let's unite around this proposal. Please vote. 4556 to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please support, we vote. [[17:22:25]] For 225 Last offer. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I'm asking you to take up jobs. We have every voice that matters. Colleagues, according to the Rules, we go in this order. And now I'm voting on draft Law 4556 to get the subject of the legislative initiative back on track. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Vote, please. [[17:23:16]] For 247 Decision taken. Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda of the day session. I would stress that this is not a discussion. All of these questions were raised on the site, and each of the national deputies was able to get to know them. Moreover, I would like to point out that when we approved the order of the day session, we included all the laws, all of which were named, in the order of the day session. So I think it'll be fair if we're all of the proposals that were offered by the deputies, so let's also put the agenda of the day session. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. I'm going to call you one by one, and I'm going to urge you to support them. Please prepare for the vote. I'm going to call it in that order, as indicated in our agenda. So the first one. It is proposed to include in the agenda the draft Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine (6155 and 6155-1). Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. [[17:24:47]] For 252 Decision taken. Next is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing the resistance to trafficking and protecting victims (number 6125). Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:25:21]] For 238. Decision taken. Next is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State Registration of Civil Status Acts and some other legislative acts on decentralization and the approximation of administrative services to citizens in the area of civil status registration (6150). Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:25:59]] For 208 The decision is not made. The next is the draft Law on State Control in Social Support (6159, 6159-1 and 6159-2). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:26:34]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Next. Oh, it's very simple. 6232, that's it. Come on, I'll get right on it. 6019, right, now? So we just voted him out, he didn't pass. He didn't make it. Next. Didn't you vote? Okay. I would like to vote on the draft Act amending Chapter VIII of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine "On Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance" (6019). Please vote, please support. This is the Social Policy Committee's proposal. Please support 6019. [[17:27:44]] For 196 The decision is not taken. The next is 6232, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts. 6232 please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. [[17:28:22]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 6233: Draft Law amending Article 540 of the Customs Code of Ukraine concerning the enforcement of the decision of the income and assembly body or the court imposing a fine (6233). Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, 6233. [[17:28:59]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I remind you that when we formed the agenda, all the laws were included. I think there has to be some moment and solidarity here too. Next is a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities on optimizing the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (6256 and 6256-1). A working group on parliamentary reform worked for two months, and the bill worked for two months. In the final stages, all members of the working group from all factions confirmed the support of the bill. This is an initiative for reform of Parliament, in our joint work with the European Parliament. And I hope that all the factions that supported the working group are now supporting this by voting. Colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill, two bills for reforming Parliament. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session 6256, 6256-1, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. This is Peter Cox, our partner. [[17:30:24]] For 205 What are you guys doing? 205, let's see the factions, colleagues. Peter Prashenko Block 84, People's Front 55, Opposition Block 0. I would like to point out that a member of the working group confirmed these efforts and said that he would support them. Self-help: 17, Radical Party 13. Also, the working group said it was confirmed. "Paternity" is 10, "Will of the People" is 10, "Party of Rebirth" is 4. Guys, I'll put it back on. I'll put it again. Not everyone here understands what the vote is about. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm re-entering the agenda for the 6256 and 6256-1 sessions. I think the result of this vote will be very significant to me as the Head of Parliament. And to me as the Head of Parliament. I'm warning you. 6256 and 6256-1, please support the joint working group, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:31:51]] For 216 Colleagues, 10 votes, does that make sense again? There's another point. And then I'll warn you what's going to happen. I'll warn you what's going to happen, and I'll tell you what's going to happen, there's going to be an identical vote on other bills. Colleagues, third time, we put three times, I'll put the third time to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell, there won't be any money. I ask, colleagues, for the joint work of the working group of all the committees, groups and factions that have confirmed, to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the session, of the colleagues. So that we don't blush in front of our European partners. I'm asking you to get organized. I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. And I put it to a vote, just to put it in the order of the day session, a colleague, not as a basis, not as a first reading, not as a second reading, but as a mere inclusion. So 6256 and 6256-1 please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[17:33:11]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 88, People's Front – 61, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 13, Rebirth Party – 2. Thank you. Again, the draft Law amending article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules (6281). This is the committee heads' bill, in which they propose to cancel break 12-12.30. It is also a reform of Parliament and an increase in the efficiency of our work. I ask for your support and I ask you to show who really wants to work fully in Parliament. I'm putting 6181 into the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:34:15]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, this is a demonstration of our level of work. Does it make sense to bet again or not? I won't. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, the following bill is 6227, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service (for the clarification of individual provisions). Please vote for him to be in the order of the day session. Integrating into the agenda. Vote. [[17:35:08]] For 178.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u92	The decision is not taken. The next one is 6265, a bill amending the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act. 6265. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:35:42.]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Next, 6220, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to include information in the Single Register of Procedural Investigations and Grounds for the Closure of Criminal Conduct. 6220, who supports the inclusion of the day-to-day session, please vote. [[17:36:16]] For 245 Decision taken. The next is 6212, a draft Act on the restoration of the capacity of state-owned coal companies (6212) requesting that the inclusion of the day-to-day session be supported. Please vote. [[17:36:45]] For 193 Maybe not everyone understands, this is the draft law on the restoration of the capacity of state-owned coal companies, this is the draft law of National Deputy Bondar (6212). I hope they've all learned. I'll put it again, please support 6212. Please vote, please support. [[17:37:20]] For 216 One last time, colleagues, and please mobilize. For the last time, I'm going to put 6212, because there aren't many votes. The draft Law on Restoration of the Payability of State Industrial Enterprises (6212) is requested to support the inclusion of the day-to-day session. Please vote, please support. [[17:37:53]] For 226 Decision taken. The following is the latest, 5350 draft Decision on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities (number 5350). Please vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:38:32]] For 221 Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I'll put it again, colleagues. Take up jobs. I am voting on 5350: a draft decree on measures to protect Ukraine's national interests, national security and territorial integrity. Just getting into the agenda of the day session, just getting involved. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:39:12]] For 224 Two votes. I'll put the third time, the last one. Please, take your jobs. I'll set it one last time. And I'm putting 5350 into the agenda of the day session, just putting it into the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues, the agenda for the day session. Vote. [[17:39:45]] For 226 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I've been approached by a committee. Today we voted back on Ukraine’s electricity market for the second time. The committee requests that the proposal be made by a summary procedure. Let's support the committee. Short procedure for second reading. Colleagues, let's vote, let's support. I'm voting on a motion to review the shortened procedure of the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act. Vote, please. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Review of the simplified procedure. [[17:40:38]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is next in line with the daily draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 11-1 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the operationality of decision-making) (5480). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:41:17]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Privalov Alexander Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u93	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 11prim. 1 Ukrainian Humanitarian Aid Act. The current mechanism for providing disabled persons is that a disabled person receives a 10 - year - old car and can use it to obtain a new car. In doing so, a car is recognized as a humanitarian aid that has been exploited for more than 10 years at the request of a disabled person, a child with disabilities is sold to him or her in the event of his or her death as property of members of their families. The relevant decision on the transfer of a car is taken by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. In view of the very large number of appeals and decisions being made not promptly, the draft Law proposes to delegate to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kyiv and Sevastopol City Administration the respective functions of the Ministry of Public Affairs to take decisions on the transfer of cars recognised as humanitarian aid, property of persons with disabilities, children with disabilities or members of their families. The proposed changes in general will contribute to the timely adoption of appropriate decisions and the implementation of State social security guarantees in the area of the provision of disabled persons by road. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u94	Thank you. Please, from the profile committee, deputy head of the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, ATO participants Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u95	The main objective of the 5480 bill, as has already been said, is to ensure that the decision on the transfer to the property of people with disabilities of light cars is made available to them through social protection bodies as humanitarian aid and, in the event of their death, owned by a member of a family of the deceased with disabilities or his heir. To that end, it is proposed that such decisions be made directly at the local level, the government. Today, such decisions are made by the miscreants. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the law as a basis for the first reading. Decisions of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, ATOs and Persons with Disabilities: Recommending Bill 5480 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and generally as laws. Please support the committee's decision. Dear colleagues, this is a problem in every area. Last year, we decided that it would be the humanitarian aid given to people or families of a deceased disabled person. But the regulations weren't developed, and every time, I'm addressing myself, the car number and the body number, so that these cars can give them to families who buy these cars themselves abroad and import them as humanitarian aid. Because the state had no opportunity to provide them with free transportation. There's a lot of cars like that. And that's why we've made a decision, and we're proposing that we make a decision not just in the hands of the Minsopolitics, but in the hands of the government to take this decision quickly, we're going to deal with these issues more quickly on the ground. And they know better who to give to, who to whom this car can be taken back to government property. Please support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u96	Thank you. Please sign up to discuss the bill, Your Honor. There is a proposal to vote immediately. Is there no objection? He's denying two factions. Please sign up for the discussion. Three factions deny. Please sign up. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u97	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will support a bill that simplifies the procedure for allowing cars to remain heirs to the dead. I remember when we chose the law so that people with disabilities or their relatives would have the right to keep their cars. Because there used to be a situation in which a half - life person, a half - life person, waited for a car, then died, and this car was removed from the family and passed on to another. It was totally antisocial. So today it is necessary to make a decision so that district administrations have the opportunity to consider these issues and decide to leave the disabled car in the family. But we need to look more closely at the social policy of supporting people with disabilities. Already, my esteemed colleagues at the Radical Party faction have told us that people with limited capabilities do not have any adapted infrastructure for living and moving. God forbid, if a person is in a wheelchair, he can neither reach the store nor to the pharmacy nor to public transportation. Because our building standards provide equipment for people with special needs, and there's really no such thing. Another huge problem. These are meager pensions, including social assistance for the care of the disabled and the meager pensions of the disabled themselves. That's why the Radical Party faction requires the government, the President to vote, to support our initiatives to increase the pensions of so-called social workers, to recalculate pensions for people who have a lot of jobs, but unfortunately have copious pensions. We call on the authorities to cancel the robbery bill for counters that are suffering, including disabled persons and people with very limited needs. We insist on meeting with the President to resign the NCREKP and the rosins.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u98	Please, Natalia Weselova from Self-Help. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Maxim, I'm in, but there are your colleagues on the hall who want to say another hot speech. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u99	The Self-Help faction will support this bill because we consider it fair to simplify the procedure for the transfer of cars used by people with disabilities and with disabilities from childhood to heirs, because such cars are usually bought at the expense of the disabled themselves. But in order to simplify the procedure for the purchase of such cars abroad, they are recognized as humanitarian aid and are charged with the management and social protection of the population. So we're going to support this bill in order to simplify the process of getting heirs to such cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u100	Please, Yuri Soloway of Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u101	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, clearly this bill needs to be supported. But besides taking advantage of the opportunity that we are considering social issues today, I think that we should all understand and draw attention to the key social problem that is in society today -- that is the state of Ukrainian citizens' pensions. I want to give you a few figures from this high rostrum, including 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens today receiving a pension of less than 2,000 dollars. It's quite obvious that today's pension system is the only function of aid from poverty. It is therefore clear that in the near future, the Ukrainian Parliament should consider a pension reform that should restore justice in receiving pensions. But today the work I hear is in the top of the government, only about reforming the solidarity pension system. Clearly, this work is needed in time. But we believe that fellow national MPs, more than 15 people, are apparently inadequate. Today it is time to talk about starting a second level pension system called the accumulation of a pension system. And today we've developed a new agenda for a new pension policy that includes this level. And I want to go to the government from this rostrum so that we can have the necessary consultations as soon as possible in order to review the changes to the solidarity pension system and implement the accumulated pension system since 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u102	Please, Matvienkov from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u103	Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u104	Debt. Yes, please, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u105	Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u106	Sori, the Queen. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u107	Dear colleagues! As far as Project 5480 is concerned, we think he deserves all the support. But today this rostrum is more and more about pension reform. Dear colleagues, who's in this room against retirement? No man. Who is against lifting the pension limit for working pensioners? No man. Who doesn't have a pension reform project in this room? Everybody does. Dear colleagues, why is Kabin now speculating on the subject of pension reform, now the IMF promises that they will be adopting some kind of pension reform in April, and no one has ever seen it? Why have pensioners been so bullied in the last three years without raising the minimum pension? Why did the Pension Fund not get 96 billion dollars? And that's 800 dollars a month for every retiree. Dear colleagues, you and I are now discussing an important issue, but not the most important one. We're going to call you tomorrow morning, tonight, Monday night, and we're going to make a decision about retirement. Bill 5724 registered the Opposition Block, and we know where to get the money to raise the minimum pension to 3,000 dollars. And I am sure that the issue of pension raises will unite our hall. And I'm sure it'll be the best gift ever before Easter for our pensioners. So I'm going to propose next week to raise your pension and settle this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m1.u108	Thank you, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, take your jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 11 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the operationality of decision-making) (number 5480) on the proposal of the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, vote, please support. Vote. [[17:54:08]] For 211 My colleagues, not all of them have made it. I'll be back in a minute. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Colleagues, please enter the hall, take up jobs. I'll be back in a minute. I'm proposing to go back to the 5480 vote. Please vote, please support the return to 5480. We vote, colleagues, and all factions support, only to vote with discipline. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:54:54]] For 221 Five votes, I'll do it again, colleagues. Please enter the hall, take your seats. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, then you can talk. Once again, I propose to return to draft Law 5480. And please support the return to the vote for this bill. Please vote. Please vote, please support the return to 5480. Vote. [[17:55:44]] For 225 Olya! Please, I'll be right there. Please take your jobs, colleagues, I'll put it back on. You'll talk later, I'm asking you very much! Vote now. Mrs. Olya, I'm asking you very much. Mrs. Ola, once again: one vote is missing. I ask you to vote for your return to 5480. Everyone please take up their jobs. And please vote return to 5480. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please vote. [[17:56:46]] For 232 And I'm voting on Bill 5480 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please support 5480. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice is important. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:57:24]] For 238. Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm now continuing my session for 15 minutes. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. But let's think about it, I'm going to put the next bill on the ratings. If there are voices, we will consider. If not, I'll close the session. Okay? I'm voting for the next draft of the law that we're in the day-to-day, this is a "family and youth block," a bill that is supported by all the factions that we didn't get to it yesterday literally one minute, 5324: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the recognition of national sports. The rating vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please support the rating vote, or this law will be supported if it happens. Please vote, please support. [[17:58:30.]] For 184 No, 184. I'll make the next offer, colleagues. I had a proposal from the Nemira Committee to draft the Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of free nutrition for internally displaced children, 3459, so that we could look at it now. If we get votes to put it on right now, it's in two, we'll look at it. I'm putting it in anyway. My colleagues, I'm putting him in again now. Who's for us to move on to his consideration right now, please vote. 3459, please vote on who supports his consideration now. Please vote. [[17:59:23]] For 199 Colleagues, no votes. 6:00 p.m., colleagues. We had a chance to go through the entire youth and sports block, and we had a chance to go through internally displaced persons if we could cancel the break between 12 and 12.30, colleagues. This is once again my appeal to everyone about the efficiency of the work. And before you advocate more bills, please support the cancellation of the break, then your words will be sincere and your words will be responsible. And now for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. It was a hard day, but still a productive day. Tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our not easy but important work for the Motherland. Thank you, colleagues. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
