ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please come into the hall, take your seats. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! On the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Charter of Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO, there are: the Presidents of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma; the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, former members of the government. [[Congrats]] The event is also attended by distinguished foreign guests: NATO Assistant Secretary-General Mr. Dukar, NATO Parliamentary Assembly Chairman Paolo Alli and NATO Ambassador Robert Hunter of the United States. Let's welcome our guests. [[Applause]] There are representatives of the diplomatic corps, international social organizations, participants in the Rose-Rot seminar, representatives of the media and other individuals present at the ceremony. Dear National Deputies! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The event dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Charter of Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO declares open.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u2	Dear guests, distinguished, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen! 20 years ago, the Charter on a Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO was signed -- an extremely important international document for our country, which has already demonstrated our foreign policy choice, and today remains one of the key markers that determines our future. Over the past 20 years, our country has embarked on an unforgivable political path in its desire to break away from the communist colonial past and become a full member of the free - nation family. The direct proof of the irreversibility of our choice is that the highest price that Ukraine pays today in the fight against the Russian aggressor, for our right to be free and to decide our own fate on Donbassa is put to life by the best sons and daughters of Ukraine, young soldiers who with weapons in their hands protect our independence from the rematched Mexican Russia. Personally, I was one of those who at the dawn of our independence expressed the belief that Ukraine must become a NATO member when the terrible empire of evil broke down and the captive nations broke their bonds. That is how Europe would protect itself from the imperial expansion of the East, and Ukraine would gain reliable protection in the most powerful alliance of democratic countries in the world. The Charter of Ukraine – NATO in 1997 laid the groundwork for our further Allied cooperation, this document contains a direct reference to article 10 of the Washington Treaty, which states: "The parties may, by unanimity consent, invite any other European State to join this treaty, capable of implementing the principles of this treaty and contributing to security in the North Atlantic region." Since then, there have been several waves of expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance: in 1999 the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland joined NATO, in 2004 -- Bulgaria, Slovakia, Slovenia, Romania and, despite the fierce opposition of Russia, Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania -- economic and information wars have not produced the necessary effect for the Kremlin, but have only increased the desire of the peoples to protect themselves from imperial expansion. Albania and Croatia were admitted to NATO in 2009. NATO's last step, which we sincerely welcome, in 2017 the admission of its members to Montenegro not only met with Russian economic or energy blackmail, but this time the Kremlin carried out a direct attempt at a coup d'état organized and led by Russian intelligence, but rather by Balkan mercenaries who fought in eastern Ukraine against the Ukrainian state. Yet, beyond the success of the North Atlantic Alliance, to which we sincerely rejoice, even more tangible to our country and to our nations, who do not think themselves outside the free world, are undecided or long - term decisions. To my deep conviction, the fact that Georgia and Ukraine were never invited to NATO in 2008 did not, at the very least, cause Russian aggression against our nations. Putin, in order to maintain the so - called sphere of influence of Russia, has chosen the tactics of creating frozen conflicts and the constant threat of open war for both our nations and European countries. Over the centuries, Ukraine has experienced the devastating pressure of Russian chauvinism. And since 1991, since our declaration of independence, Russia has constantly tried to take control of our nation. Economic, energy, political pressure, gas blackmail, and attempts to intervene in our internal affairs were used. And its direct, then in political form, aggression has become an attempt to prevent Ukraine from making its external political choice in favour of the association with the European Union and NATO. The most famous attack was the so-called Kharkiv Accords, and later, using the pro-Russian puppet regime of Yanukovich, the Kremlin inspired attempts at violent persecution and then shot down a peaceful, multimillion-dollar Ukrainian protest. Because of the courage and sacrifice of the Ukrainians in the Dignity Revolution, Russian rematchism was defeated. However, with the temporary weakening of the state institutions, Russia carried out direct interventions against Ukraine, occupied Crimea, and organized anti-State interventions in certain parts of the country, but Russia was almost everywhere. A clear choice of citizens for the benefit of the independent Ukrainian state in Odessa, Kharkiv, Dniper, Zaporozhye, Hersson was not only the capture of Crimea and the portion of Donbas as the goal of the Kremlin. Putin's plan was to take control of our entire state in short periods of time by creating from eight areas in a third of Ukraine. We can only imagine the consequences for the security of Europe, the NATO of the entire Euro-Atlantic community, if the road map hadn't failed. Just look at the occupied Crimea, the capture of the peninsula, and the possible deployment of nuclear weapons there turned the entire Black Sea Basin into a zone of danger and instability. Crimea has become a platform for Russia’s actions in Syria, destabilizing the entire Middle East and trying to stir the European Union with a migration crisis. Without exaggeration, Russia has become a direct threat to the security of Europe and the entire civilized world. Because of the courage of Ukrainian volunteers and the unprecedented resurgence and reformation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the enemy failed to implement its fraudulent plans in Ukraine. Then, in 2014, all of us and I, as Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, had to organize resistance to fraudulent road rage. And we stood! The Russian attack was stopped. The courage and self-loyalty of our warriors have become decisive, but the countries of the free world have also made a great contribution, primarily NATO members, who have forced the Kremlin dictator to sit at the negotiating table. But the war is not over for us; the war is going on. In Donbas today, Ukraine is a shield protecting Europe from the manic plans of Putin, who cares about Russian tanks on the borders of Poland, the Czech Republic, and Romania, and, in the future, on the borders of the former Warsaw Treaty. In Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance, the same values, goals, and goals. First of all, it's the absence of any aggressive intentions and territorial claims, as well as a strong desire to live in a peaceful and stable free world. Ukrainians support Ukraine's NATO entry. Three years after the Dignity Revolution, this support tripled. According to recent sociological surveys, more than 50 percent of the population are willing to vote in favour of Ukraine in NATO. And in the case of a referendum from the number of people willing to take part in it, support may exceed 67 percent. And of course, the number of supporters of the alliance with Russia today has declined to a historic minimum. The choice of citizens is also clearly reflected in the active Ukrainian Parliament. On June 8, 2017, less than a month ago, the Supreme Council supported Bill 6470, which consolidates Ukraine's foreign policy course, which prioritizes the accession of our state to NATO. A total of 276 national deputies voted in favour of the decision. Now the Ukrainian law defines a specific and, I'm sure, attainable goal of becoming a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. But are our partners ready for an alliance with Ukraine? The events of recent years state: Yes. And it's not voice statements, it's humanitarian aid, first of all, medical assistance to Ukraine, it's promoting our reforms and steps to rebuild the country, it's overwhelming assistance to our army, and our joint training at the International Centre for Peacemaking and sharing in peacekeeping and security missions. We are now witnessing the final collapse or not the last empire of the Russian Federation. In the 21st century, the politics of so - called spheres of influence completely ran out. It got stuck in the days leading up to World War I and eventually led to World War II and today to a bloody battle in Afghanistan and the Middle East. We have great challenges ahead, first of all, to preserve unity in Ukraine, in the European Union, inside NATO. Unity, as we have seen, is the main objective of the enemy's attack. The next challenge is efficiency: how much quality and speed can Ukraine get closer to NATO standards, not only in the military, but in all areas of state and society. Historical decisions that will change the world are ahead. We do not have the right to succumb to external pressure, or we will react again only to the next one, only to a much larger crisis. We have no right to let cities burn again, thousands of innocent people die, and millions become refugees. Once again, Ukraine's accession to NATO is a strategic goal of the Ukrainian State and of the Ukrainian nation, which has been pursued. Ukraine is a democratic State of Europe, which, with weapons in hand, has proved its commitment to the values of the free world and its right to be recognized and an integral part of it. Courage, wisdom, strength, and prosperity to all of us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u4	Mr. Dukar, Assistant Secretary-General of NATO, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head, my ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! It is a great privilege and a great pleasure to be back here in Kiev, Ukraine, and to address this important meeting on such an important occasion. Today we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the signing of the Charter on the Special Partnership between NATO and Ukraine. So let me share with you some thoughts about what we've been through and what our views on the future are. Ukraine is often described as a very attractive country, which nevertheless attracts invaders. Nature has generously donated Ukraine, but history has not been so generous to this country. Your country has suffered severe trials, perhaps more than any other country in Europe. So when Ukraine gained its independence and became an important member of the international community, we all hoped that hard times were behind us. We all hoped that in the new Europe, geography would no longer fatally determine the fate of the country, and that in this new Europe, every state would be free to pave its way for the future. And these would not be just our expectations, we've taken concrete steps to build our future together. We have developed not only a special partnership but also the tools needed to move forward. First of all, the commission "Ukraine-NATO. And we did this in the context of developing a broad network of partnerships with different countries, including Russia, based on what we thought was common principles that we share: sovereignty, territorial integrity, and the idea of cooperation. Ukraine was the first country to join the Partnership for Peace programme. NATO assisted Ukraine in reforming the security and defence sector. We have developed programs to help Ukraine destroy surplus stockpiles of ammunition and antipersonnel mines, we have supported the training program of former military personnel in Ukraine, we have conducted joint training on emergency response, we have helped neutralize nuclear dangerous objects that have been left over since the Soviet Union. And Ukrainian military aircraft and ships were involved in NATO-led operations in Afghanistan, the Balkans, the Mediterranean. All of this was a remarkable success and a demonstration of what can be achieved when you have clear goals and goals. This gives us hope that we can overcome any obstacles that may arise in our path. Unfortunately, Russia, a neighbouring state that once promised to protect Ukraine’s territorial integrity, violated this territorial integrity in a more frank way, illegally annexing Crimea and supporting the open and hidden use of force in eastern Ukraine. Ukraine is not only a victim of the classic form of military aggression but also of the modern hybrid threat. Indeed, no country in the world may have suffered so much from almost daily cyber attacks on cyber networks, public transportation, airports, banking, and financial structures. As a result, Ukraine now faces the greatest challenges since the restoration of independence. Will Ukraine face these challenges? I believe that because it can do that because people have the power, the character and the will to do that, and it's not unique in that. Along with other responsible representatives of NATO's international co-operation on its side. And in fact, Ukraine and NATO have never been so close both politically and militarily, and in terms of practical cooperation. The North Atlantic Council has repeatedly stressed that the so - called referendum in March 2014 in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was both illegal and illegal and illegal. At the same time, NATO supports a peaceful solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine, while respecting fully Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity. In practical terms, we are using the framework of the Commission of Ukraine-NATO to take the necessary steps to help this country. We support comprehensive reforms in the security and defence sector of Ukraine. The practical assistance provided by NATO is also provided through several trust funds. These trust funds support Ukraine in areas such as command and control, cyber defense, logistics and military medical rehabilitation. All of this is the key areas of defence reform. And they are all necessary for Ukraine to be able to defend itself. These measures apply to a wide range of issues, including the strengthening of our country’s defense against hybrid warfare. And that's why the activities in my department, the Department of New Security Challenges, such as the Cyber Protection Trust Fund, various projects under the Science for Peace and Security Program, are designed to help Ukraine be more capable and more stable, responding to today's hybrid threats. In fact, in recent years, Ukraine has become the largest beneficiary of the NATO Science for Peace and Security Programme, bypassing Russia, which was this year before 2014. And a comprehensive aid package has also been adopted, which is aimed at various areas of assistance to Ukraine from NATO, and allows us to identify areas where we can and should do even more. Because for us to provide assistance and support to Ukraine, it's not a short-term question, it's a long-term question. And we want to see a successful transition of Ukraine to a stable democracy. Because Ukraine is more stable and secure, making us all more stable and secure. We are also set up to support broader reforms in Ukraine aimed at the development of democratic institutions, the rule of law. All these steps are essential for the bright future that the Ukrainian people deserve. That is why Ukraine has taken the lead in taking these ambitious reforms into its own hands. As a result, Ukraine will become a stable, prosperous and safer country and its relations with NATO will become even closer and closer. And in this context, I'm happy to announce an important step towards celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Charter of Special Partnership here in Kiev. NATO Secretary-General Mr Stoltenberg and the Euro-Atlantic Council will visit Ukraine and hold meetings of the Ukrainian-NATO Commission in Ukraine. The situation of security in the east, achievements in large-scale reforms, and ways of strengthening the relationship between NATO and Ukraine will be discussed. And they will reaffirm NATO's solidarity with Ukraine and its strong support. The Secretary-General and members of the Alliance will also meet here with the National Deputies of the Supreme Council and with representatives of civil society to better deal with the problems and challenges facing your country. And these challenges are serious. And I'm sure your abilities will outweigh those challenges. Ukraine as a state has enormous potential, and it is true that it is a country that deserves the respect and support of a broad international society, including NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, 20 years ago, a year ago, when we signed the Charter of Ukraine-NATO, a study conducted by the distinguished Hanegen Baumann indicated that Ukraine was a key foundation for peace and security in Europe. And I think that this really is a very good indication of the importance of Ukraine. I cannot imagine a well-functioning Euro-Atlantic security order without a democratic and prosperous Ukraine. It doesn't matter what challenges we face, our shared task remains constant, the development of a continent whose geography will no longer be predestined, that a continent on which each country will choose its own course of development and that no country will be a victim on this continent. And all, including Ukraine, have found their proper place in the free, democratic, stable, safe, prosperous family of European nations to which it belongs directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u6	Thank you. And to put it this way, the statement is given to the Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, Ivanni Orestinal Klimpus-Cincadze. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u7	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, dear Mr. Ducaru, dear Mr. Allie, dear colleagues, guests! I am very pleased that I have the opportunity to address you again today in a slightly different format, and first of all, I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Groissman, on behalf of the entire Government of Ukraine, to thank all of you for your interest in the topic of the relationship between Ukraine and NATO and for this opportunity to celebrate jointly the 20th anniversary of the Charter on Ukraine and NATO's Special Partnership. The subject of our relationship with the North Atlantic Alliance is no longer a matter of either individual politicians or individual public figures. It was so a few years ago, and today the integration of Ukraine with the Alliance is already a matter of national security and this is a question of choosing a model for Ukraine's development, and this is a question of choosing Ukraine's future. What's important? This position is fully shared by the people of Ukraine. It's enough to say that, according to sociological surveys, in recent decades, the number of people who support NATO integration has increased by more than 2.5 times. And if a referendum had been held today, more than 70 percent of the population in Ukraine would have voted in favour. So we have a very clear and not ambiguous Ukrainian society's demand for integration with the North Atlantic Alliance. The people of Ukraine understand that stories of neutral status have nothing to do with the harsh reality of today’s world. The people of Ukraine, unfortunately, have a very difficult experience, but they also realize that no neutrality and no compromise at the expense of Ukraine will save us from aggression. The Ukrainian people also understand that integration into NATO is an integration into the world's strongest security mechanism. I am sincerely pleased that our Ukrainian parliamentarians, our colleagues from the Ukrainian Parliament are absolutely responding to this request from the Ukrainian people and that is why they demonstrated this completely on June 8, 2017, when they legislatively established Ukraine's intention to become a NATO member. That premier blockage, which for years has forced us to waste time to transform, has finally gone into the past. We have a clear strategic goal, we've given a powerful signal to Ukrainian society and our partners in the world. It was political and it was a strategic decision, it was a reflection of the civilizational choice made by the Ukrainian people themselves. But now, of course, we must do our utmost to implement those changes, those transformations, those reforms that will allow us to claim entry into the Alliance that will allow us to update the Bucharest Declaration of the 2008 NATO Summit on Ukraine's possible future membership in NATO. I'm not going to talk about how much of this depends on us, on the Ukrainians, I actually think it's entirely up to us. Because the goal of a country where society fully shares the democratic values of the member states of the alliance. The intention of a country that is constantly demonstrating progress in the implementation of standards that makes the necessary transformations in a timely manner is that the country will not be able to ignore even those members of the Alliance that are still under the influence of the false stereotype of the peacefulization of the aggressor, the peacefulization of the Russian Federation. It is up to our actions to decide whether or not we will take advantage of the opportunities that can open up the process of integration into NATO. These features include the construction of modern, professional, highly effective Armed Forces, with a loud organizational principle that will preserve the lives of soldiers and officers and the civilian population in achieving the objectives of military operations. This is an opportunity to synchronize legislation with the democratic countries of the Alliance, most of which belong to the world's most powerful economies. This is an opportunity to improve the country's investment attractiveness; this is an opportunity to accelerate integration into the European Union, as our Eastern European partners have shown. The opening of these possibilities is directly dependent on how effective and consistent we will follow the process of integration into NATO. Much is already being done in our relationship between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance, and this has been discussed by both Mr. Ducaru and the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Mr. Parubai. But I want to add, we have an approved and implemented annual national cooperation programme between Ukraine and NATO. For the first time in Ukrainian history during 2015-2016, we developed all the strategic planning documents in the field of national security and defence in full with the participation of our partners with NATO and in full compliance with NATO standards. Military cooperation with the Alliance has now reached a strategic level. We've restored the institutional foundations of this cooperation within the country, we've set up a clear mechanism of coordination and interaction, we've established effective communication between the central executive authorities. Through the Professional Development Programme, we have today created organizational conditions to raise the professional level of government officials involved in NATO cooperation and responsible for the reform of the security and defence sector. We have resumed our targeted information-explanatory work in Ukraine on the North Atlantic Alliance. Under the relevant trust funds, it has already been said that real complex measures are being taken to strengthen the security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In the process of implementing a comprehensive NATO assistance package for Ukraine, the security and defence sector is being transferred to NATO standards, but taking into account the strategic objective and the strategic perspective set out in the June 8th Act of Ukraine, these listed measures are not sufficient at this time. And that's why we think that we need to bring our partnership with the Alliance to a new strategic level, which means here for us in the Supreme Council walls to turn on "green light" for those bills that aim at implementing standards and requirements, those requirements that relate to NATO membership. We need to step up and give the systemic nature of cooperation with NATO in the area of national security and defence and other key areas, we need to prepare proposals and initiate the process of implementing the Partnership Charter, of special partnership and cooperation with NATO in accordance with the realities of today's times and the geopolitical situation in a world that is rapidly changing. The solution here in Ukraine will require the consolidation of positions and, apparently, the consolidation of all branches of government, both legislative and executive, as well as civil society. And you've already heard that there is consensus about integration into NATO in society. And the same consensus is now important for us to achieve in all branches of power, according to all political forces, all political factions and parties. It was by consensus that the country’s key, principled issues had always been chosen by both independence and development and greatness. And today, again, by welcoming all of you from the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Charter of Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO, I would like to express the hope that our next anniversary of the Charter has already been marked, as a minimum, by the status of a country that has an order of action on membership, well, best of all as a full member of the country. Member of the Northern Atlantic Alliance. And I'm not taking in this complicated world to predict when that's what's going to happen. At the same time, I believe that this will definitely happen, because that is what needs to be done, that is what the Ukrainian people have given us the mandate to do. And we hope that our alliance partners will also support us in this desire for internal change and belonging to the democratic, strong, security component of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u8	Thank you. And the speech is given to the head of the mission of Ukraine to NATO in 1997-1998 by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u9	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, distinguished foreign colleagues and guests! I am very pleased to be speaking today at a special meeting dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Charter of Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO. Let me tell you what this meeting is about. It is that, at the President's direction, I had to negotiate in 1997 on the preparation of the Charter for Special Partnerships. It was very interesting, but at the same time, it was hard work. I am pleased to note that two people are attending our meeting, one in Brussels and the other in Kiev, working very hard to ensure that the Charter for Special Partnerships is prepared. This is then the permanent representative of the United States of America to NATO, Robert Hunter, who is sitting here with us, with whom we had a lot of discussions and not quite, so to speak, friendly. [[Applause]] But in the end, we have produced a document that is finally acceptable to both Ukraine and NATO. The second person, without whom I can't imagine the outcome of our negotiations, is Vladimir Pavlovich Gorbulin, who is present here, the then Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, who has constantly taken care of the drafting of the Charter, the course of negotiations with which I have been in constant contact, which I am very grateful, without which I have no idea of the Charter for a Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO. [[Applause]] As far as the paper is concerned, I want to say that it was an unforgivable process. It started in 1996, when Ukraine proposed that NATO produce a strategic partnership document between Ukraine and NATO. Finally, we encouraged NATO to take an active part in this topic, but NATO chose its priorities and initially proposed to produce such a framework document with Russia, and work went hand in hand with Ukraine to produce such a document. So Ukraine was the first to propose that NATO produce this systematic strategic document. Active work was carried out until July 9th until the signing of a special partnership in Madrid. And I want to say that this very year 1997 has become a turning point in the relationship between Ukraine and NATO. It was the 97th in May. In early May 1997, the NATO Documentation Centre in Ukraine was launched. It was this year that the first Ambassador of Ukraine to NATO was accredited, and NATO made a political decision on the granting of accreditation to NATO to ambassadors of non-NATO countries. And in this way I was accredited for the first time since Ukraine among the first ambassadors of countries not NATO members in October 1997. The Charter for a Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO is a framework, systematic, strategic document. Unfortunately, my old friend and friend Robert Hunter, Ambassador Robert Hunter, has been doing everything he can to call the Strategic Partnership Charter. Finally, we have a document called "a special partnership." But despite this, Ukraine was confidently moving towards establishing a strategic partnership with NATO, and I was pleased to hear today from Vice-Prime Minister Klimpush-Cincadze that our relationship has come to the level of strategic partnership. Dear friends, I would like to say that cooperation between Ukraine and NATO and the NATO membership course could be described graphically as a sinusoid that had its take-off and fall. I'll call some stages of this. In 2002, the Council of National Security and Defence decided for the first time on the course for NATO membership. At the same time, in 2002, the Supreme Council decided for the first time to support NATO membership. In 2003, the Supreme Council in this room adopted a law that envisioned Ukraine's membership in NATO. This law was adopted by the constitutional majority, including the then representatives of the Party of the Regions. 2003 June 19 What happened next in 2004? President Janukovic's candidate then ran a company based on anti-Natov slogans, and then he opposed Ukraine's accession to NATO. In 2006, we made some pretty serious progress in our relationship with NATO. I personally led negotiations with NATO's leadership on Ukraine's invitation to the Membership Action Plan. Such a decision was and was made in principle. Regrettably, Prime Minister Yanukovic’s visit to Brussels on 14 September 2006 had ruined everything because he had no right to claim that the Ukrainian people were not prepared for the Membership Plan, not even for membership, but for the Membership Plan. And in the same way, he usually sowed confusion among our NATO partners. At the same time, in 2008, NATO, at its Bucharest summit, is deciding that Ukraine will be a NATO member. It was not easy for the North Atlantic Alliance to make this decision, but it was still an important decision that the current NATO leadership is committed to. The period 2010-2013 of Januković, of course, could not have been expected to increase cooperation with NATO, but it was compressed. And only with the beginning of Russian aggression did the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide to update the NATO membership rate, to abolish the so-called off-block status that was introduced in 2010. In terms of the response of society, it is Russia’s aggression that has actually increased the number of Ukraine’s NATO supporters three times. That is how Ukrainian society reacted to the insolent aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Speaking of public opinion, in 1997, 37 percent of the Charter's special partnership signatures supported NATO membership. Since then, there have been downs and downs, and there have been, like, 15-20 percent of society's support. I am glad that this support now reaches almost 50 percent. And if a referendum were to be held, this figure could be more than 70 percent. As for the attitude of the Ukrainian political forces towards NATO membership, we have seen everything in 25 years of our history. Here we saw the party of the region playing with balloons that said, "NATO is no," we saw it all. Today they have been listed, they are in other political forces. The Communists here were furious in the halls, which were decisively opposed to NATO membership. Now these political powers are gone, they've disappeared from the political landscape of Ukraine. But that was the case. As far as NATO is concerned, of course we have to celebrate positively the desire, the political will of NATO member countries to cooperate with Ukraine. At the same time, we also felt some confusion from NATO after the Russian aggression began in 2014. And this confusion lasted almost two years, until the NATO summit in Warsaw last year. Of course, speaking of our relationship between Ukraine and NATO, there is much to say. Moreover, I have had to participate in almost all the main stages of the relationship between Ukraine and NATO. At the same time, I would like to share with you my thoughts on the future of Ukraine and NATO. In my opinion, we have to go to NATO in a few stages. The first step is enhanced cooperation based on annual national programmes. Secondly, we must simultaneously bring our standards into line with NATO standards. And we have to work hard to remove obstacles to our NATO membership, and this is the need to reform, this is the need to fight corruption, this is the reform of the judicial system, this is the peaceful settlement of Donbassa and the liberation, the decommissioning of the Crimea. Just when we do all these tasks, we can expect NATO membership. I want all of us to achieve this goal. Glory be to you and glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u10	Thank you. And the United States Ambassador to NATO is invited to the floor in 1993 and 1998 by Robert Hunter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u11	Mr. Head, Your Honor, Excellency, I would like to use this term, I have the great honour to be here, in this extraordinary place on the Supreme Council, and I am pleased to see many young Ukrainian military men in this room, Ambassador Vasilenko. I have to say that in 1994, when we were first trained in the Partnership for Peace in Poznan, Poland, and the Supreme Commander of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe, all that was happening, he said, were the best military involved in those trainings, either from NATO member countries or partners, they were Ukrainian military. And I want all of us to welcome these young people here. I also have to say that I am a very big friend. His great friend Boris Tarasyuk, a very difficult negotiation. He is a great patriot not only of Ukraine but of all that is best in the world. I had to follow my leadership in Washington. And that's why I called it, I insisted on calling it a special partnership charter, but in the heart and in many other hearts, we all understood that it was actually a strategic partnership. So, Boris, if I could, I would immediately write "strategic partnership." But it's very nice to be here with all these MPs and meet with the representatives of the member states. But I have to say that the people of the United States are very interested in these events. And now. We have our events going on, but you are the representatives of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Supreme Council, talking about annual national programmes, and I have to say that governments have to understand that you are the people we work for, you are the people who say that they give money and who can say that NATO is fulfilling its obligations or not. And this is the Rose-Rot seminar, Rose was my friend, and he spoke at the NATO summit in 97, and he was one of the first to welcome Ukraine and greet the Charter between NATO and Ukraine. When I came to the airport yesterday and I had to get some money, and I went to ask one, look at this money, it's 50, and here's the face of a man named Mikhailo Gruszewski, sorry if I misspoke his name. He was the head of the Central Council 100 years ago when, on March 17, Ukraine was declared an independent state. It was a declaration very similar to the one my country made 240 years ago. The Declaration of Independence of the United States was very much like the Declaration of Independence of Ukraine in the 17th year, and I would suggest you read and compare these two documents. But this today, we can say that this happened 100 years ago, and the announcement of the Second University of the Supreme Council continued this. We believe that Ukrainian democracy will gain enough strength to bring about the triumph of Ukraine, and this was said almost 100 years ago. Yesterday, I was able to read the events of 2017. The next step in the Dignity Revolution in Ukraine could be. I recommend you all go to Maidan and look at this. I have to say that at a very difficult time, I was helped by a Ukrainian woman. I can’t remember exactly how the name, the English translation, was written, and in 1863 he became a Brigadier General in the United States Army. He was helping us, and he was. This John Turkaninov who helped the United States defend their independence. A special partnership charter, what are we doing? In his time, George Bush, president of the United States, said that even after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the main goal was to create a whole and unbreakable Europe. And our Charter of Special Relationships was focused on this. There is now a chance to unite this Europe and there are some basics: the first is to recognize that the United States is. European power, so you don't hear it, is still one of the elements of American democracy. The American people have been deeply devoted to this continent since 1917, we have demonstrated our commitment not to give Europe the dominance of hegemony, whether it be Kaiser Germany or Vladimir Putin or anyone else. And I think we do. We keep what we've always had best, an integrated military structure and we expect to continue to develop this structure. And I have to say that the best people in NATO are represented here as Ambassador Ducaru, for example. The next step is the development of Europe as a geopolitical chess player, which includes "partnership for peace", the Council of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, which has brought countries into NATO, as well as parallel steps by European co-operation, and this includes PMD, the Council of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, the OSCE, whose full members are Ukraine. At the same time Bush's vision was not to isolate Russia, but as it was when the Treaty of Versailles was signed with Germany, which led to rematchism and this expectation. In addition to the basic act "NATO-Russia," we understood that this was not enough for Ukraine to just become another member of other institutions, and we had negotiations on the NATO-Ukraine Charter, and here are a few principles on which it is based: no gray zones in Europe, no buffer states, no spheres of influence, no restored balance of power. It's got to be. The door to NATO membership must be open to any country that is capable of passing through them. And to have Ukraine as a full member of Euro-Atlantic institutions, a full member of that world in Europe, of which we want to be part. And I hope Mr. Putin understands that because he's gone a lot further than anyone expects him to do, and we can say so, well, how. No step further. And I have to say, my country will do whatever it takes to make it clear. And of course, your country has an enormous amount to do to combat corruption, internal development, working with national minorities, it's a huge task, of course. If I had to. that, in addition to what NATO is doing, it's not. In order to resist what Russia is doing for security, Ukraine needs to do everything possible to ensure that Ukraine succeeds not only politically but economically. And NATO's goal of two percent of GDP in defense of the need, I would change that, I would say three percent, and part of that is going to go to economic development, and also to help Ukraine here in Ukraine. Our president is going to meet Mr. Putin next week and they might want to resume a strategic dialogue, I can say that exactly. And this, again, is about Russia. the issue of Ukraine is absolute, is an absolute requirement. And with that, and here we have to act clearly in terms of supporting the sovereign state of Ukraine, without that there can be no relationship between Russia and the West in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u12	Thank you. And, Ambassador, I would like to point out that Ukraine today gives six percent of GDP for security and defence, much more than most NATO member states. And so we demonstrate, I'm sure, our readiness, and our high level of responsibility and understanding of security not only for Ukraine, but also for the entire civilized world. And, honourable national deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly Paolo Alli is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Paolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u13	Mr. Head, Mrs. Ivanna, distinguished Vice Prime Minister, Mrs. Irina, head of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, your Excellency, friends, colleagues! Let me begin by congratulating both Ukraine and NATO on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Charter on NATO-Ukraine's Special Partnership. In the last 20 years, the world has changed and Ukraine has changed. First of all, Ukraine’s European identity was strengthened. Ukraine today knows what it wants and where it belongs. A long road ahead, but Ukraine is on the right track and moving very fast. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly will do its utmost to support Ukraine. Let me take a brief tour of our relationship with Ukraine. Since 1991, when Ukraine declared its independence and almost immediately joined the Assembly as an associate. In 1997, our Assembly and the Supreme Council created the parliamentary equivalent of a commission of Ukraine-NATO, which is still working. Our cooperation remained strong, effective, regardless of who the majority in Kiev’s parliament belonged to, and what was the orientation of foreign policy. Our relationship deepened in 2002, after Ukraine decided to move towards NATO membership, especially after the 2004 Orange Revolution, when people demanded a European future for the country, the Assembly observed all the major elections in the country, and this says that it was very important for us because we are not in the process of monitoring the elections at all. We made several reports on the situation in Ukraine, organized a series of meetings, seminars in Ukraine, in cooperation with the Supreme Council. All these measures were designed to help Ukraine achieve NATO membership standards and to get closer to the Euro-Atlantic community. Our relationship was also tested again during the presidency of Mr. Janukovic. But even then the parliamentary dialogue and the practical cooperation between NATO and Ukraine continued. But the Assembly expressed its concern about a certain departure from democratic principles in Ukraine at the time, especially as they appeared in the arrest of political opponents. During Eromaydan we stood side by side with the Ukrainian people, several high-level delegations of the Assembly visited Kiev in an important year in 2014. Even a week before the Janukovitch flight, the Assembly delegation led by President Bailey was in Kiev to urge Yanukovic to sit down at the table of talks with the protesters. Unfortunately, after that there was Russian military intervention in Ukraine, and here the Parliamentary Assembly was once again one of the first to condemn Russia for doing so. We stopped the status of association with Russia in our assembly and expressed our support and solidarity with Ukraine in its Euro-Atlantic aspirations. Ladies and gentlemen, since that heroic and tragic time, three years have passed, and military action continues in eastern Ukraine, violating, mass, the rights of people in Russia’s Crimea. Ukrainians are suffering from a difficult economic situation, but it would be wrong to underestimate the positive changes that have taken place over these years. The scope of the reforms initiated by Ukraine after the election of the new President is indeed extraordinary. The creation of the NAB in Ukraine, the reform of the judicial system, the introduction of transparency tools such as electronic property declaration, the decentralization of governance, the reduction of subsidies, the diversification of energy sources and the adoption of a package of health care measures. These are just some of the reforms that have convinced the International Monetary Fund that it is necessary to continue to support Ukraine financially. Of course, the implementation of good legislation requires attention to other areas of life, and the fight against corruption, and privatization of state-owned enterprises, and pension reform. But in general, reforms are quite impressive, especially in the context of further military action in eastern Ukraine and the occupation of Crimea by Russia. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which are members of the EU and NATO, have carried out similar painful but necessary reforms in the 1990s, and their transformation is a story of remarkable success. I believe very much that Ukraine will succeed in the same way. I urge my colleagues in the West not to give up Ukraine, we must be patient. It was relatively easy to support Ukraine after Euramydan in an atmosphere of revolutionary enthusiasm and high expectations. But now the attention to Ukraine has diminished, at a time when this country needs our help more than ever. The Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people need and need to see that their efforts are not in vain. I particularly welcome in this context the introduction of a visa-free travel regime for Ukrainians into the European Union and the implementation of the Free Trade Agreement with the EU. I also welcome the cooperation between NATO and Ukraine, as well as between Ukraine and individual countries of the North Atlantic Alliance. It is particularly encouraging that the new United States and Ukraine administration are discussing further arrangements in the field of defence capabilities. Colleagues, I don't need to explain to this audience the strategic importance of this region for European and Euro-Atlantic security. Russia’s aggression against Ukraine opened a new chapter in international relations in 2014. Ukraine and Eastern Europe, in general, today is a frontline to protect European security and to protect the world order that took place after World War II. The Euro-Atlantic community responded to Russia’s global action first and foremost by strengthening its defence. For us, "reson detre" is a collective defense. And when our allies are in danger, as is now happening in the Baltic countries and in Poland and in Romania, we have strengthened our defensive ability to protect and to behave in proportion. At the same time, NATO is keeping open channels of communication with Moscow, although there is no great progress in this direction right now. An important element of our response is the provision of further support and assistance to Ukraine, Georgia, and other partners in the region to strengthen their endurance in the face of external intervention. Ukraine and Georgia are strengthening democracy and the rule of law because that is what will make their countries safer and stronger. So in a sense, they are not only a bulwark of European global security, but also a good defense of democracy. And for that reason, Ukraine's support is the support and protection of our shared values of democratic countries. Ukraine's protection is our own protection, our freedom and our security. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is aware of the importance of this support. And all of us as members of our national parliaments are also involved in supporting Ukraine and at the national level, on a bilateral basis, such as myself. I've been on the front line on Donbassa, and I'll never forget this experience. Our democratic values, norms and principles are now facing challenges both in our countries and inside and outside. We hear rhetoric that leads to divisions in societies, we hear calls from populists and things like that. All of this test our ability to remain faithful to our common values. Mass migration is also a test of our unity. And the Russian disinformation campaign and propaganda are also often aimed at undermining trust in our governments and creating instability in our societies. In this context, our responsibility as parliamentarians is to protect our values. And inter-parliamentary cooperation between democratic bodies, parliaments can help us achieve this common goal. Just as Ukraine can learn from our countries how to go through a transition period. We also have much to learn from Ukraine about how to deal with today’s threats of hybrid war and misinformation. So the signs of the struggle for democracy today are more visible here, in this part of Europe, but we're all interested in this fight leading to the protection of our democratic institutions. Be assured that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will continue to play its important role in these efforts. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u14	Thank you for your constant support of Ukraine at such an unforgivable time. For me, I will always remember the time when, in February 2015, the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly was in Maidan and we walked together in burning barricades and at the time, it was an extremely important moment of support for all of us in Maidan. And thank you for all the support we get during Russia's aggression, it's very important to us. And thank you on behalf of all Ukraine and all Ukrainians. Thank you. [[Applause]] The address is given to the director of the National Institute of Strategic Research, Vladimir Pavlovich Gorbulin. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Head, Madam Vice Prime Minister, distinguished national deputies and distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! Let me start with a brief tour of the past. In the autumn of 1996, a group of experts from Ukraine were invited by the National Security Council of the United States to Washington. The visit seemed extremely difficult, but very effective, and there were meetings at the National Security and Defence Council with the Secretary of Defense of the United States and all its deputies, the Head of the State Department and all its deputies, the directors of the FBI and the CIA. The final chord was meetings with the vice president of the United States of America, El Gore. The final result of the visit was a joint statement containing the issue of the strategic partnership between the United States and Ukraine, the agreement on the creation of the Kuchma-Gor commission, the support of the United States of America for a document on NATO-Ukraine cooperation. At that time, the definition of paper as names did not exist, and upon return, the day - to - day work began in Kiev and Brussels, as noted by the distinguished Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Not because the cock is bragging about the cock and not because the cock is bragging about the zusula, but because I wanted to say that without this man, there would be no charter. And likewise, I would like to thank Mr. Hunter, thanks to Mr. Hunter and Mr. Tarasyuk's discussions, the paper's paper was so correct that it was not in the document "Fundamental fact of cooperation between the Russian Federation and NATO", which was adopted two months earlier. After that, a very difficult, persistent but determined work began. Boris Ivanovic has already said that the summits were held, the meetings of the commissions of Ukraine-NATO. I can tell you that it was really a sinusoid. In general, Ukraine built its positions with the Alliance in two planes. Throughout our independence, we have faced the need to protect this same independence and to strengthen our national security. And these problems forced us to look for our place in the system of European and Euro-Atlantic security. I don't think we need to explain how much we were attracted to the prospects of cooperation with NATO. However, today’s security context for our country is fundamentally different from all previous years. The last few years have proved critical to international security: Russian aggression against Ukraine in 2014, the annexation of Crimea, the massive war on Donbas, the further aggressive and unpredictable actions of the great nuclear power have dramatically increased the instability of the global security environment, and have greatly increased the impact of the people who have led to the destruction of the existing world system. This was confirmed by the holding at the National Institute of Strategic Research a month ago of an international round table devoted to the 20th anniversary of the Charter. Many issues were discussed during the discussion, but it was unanimously emphasized that partnership with the Alliance is now of special importance and opens up new perspectives. So at the moment, security at national level is not enough, countering threats, given their transnational nature, requires the joint efforts of many countries around the world, their participation in collective security systems, the most effective of which today is NATO. Recent developments have shown that NATO's exclusive partnership does not, in principle, solve Ukraine's problem of effectively resisting new threats. So today, both for the Ukrainian authorities and for the Ukrainian society, the issue of joining Ukraine in a collective security system is more acute than ever. It is in this context that we should consider amending the two laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 6, this year, which has already been discussed. From now on, to deepen Ukraine's cooperation with NATO in order to become a member of the organization, and not just to achieve the criteria necessary for this, becomes one of the fundamental tasks of the state. We are well aware that this decision does not mean that Ukraine will become a member of this organization tomorrow. Joining the organization is a long way to go, and every step will require a tremendous amount of tension. And it's not just about reform, it's not just about diplomatic efforts, it's about Ukrainian society and its leadership. But some of the same work needs to be done by some individual NATO member states. We're working to make the Ukrainian citizens understand that NATO is not just a "security umbrella," it's first of all common values, solidarity and mutual assistance. And the proponents of this understanding and perception are getting more and more. According to recent sociological surveys, the majority of Ukrainians today deliberately support Ukraine’s introduction to the alliance. In these circumstances, any attempt to push it into forced neutrality or to impose a non-connection status or a new non-lock as a tool for stabilizing a new security environment remains meaningless. Today, relations between Ukraine and NATO are at a very high level throughout the years following the signing of the Charter. A two-way political dialogue is actively developing at all levels and on various scales, including the inter-parliamentary and today's assembly, confirming why the Ukrainian society is very grateful to the guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to give them a round of applause. [[Applause]] Cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and NATO structures with a view to profoundly reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces with the application of NATO standards is particularly fruitful for us. It is with the expertise of NATO in Ukraine that a fundamental review of the conceptual documents of strategic and defence planning is being carried out. At the Warsaw Summit, an unprecedented program of action was taken to assist Ukraine in the construction of defence institutions and the preparation of its own Armed Forces. The approved comprehensive aid plan contains some 40 lines of interaction between Ukraine and NATO in 13 areas. Several projects aimed at reforming the security and defence sphere are already being implemented effectively in Ukraine: first, by overcoming corruption in defence and security institutions; second, by training the civilian security and defence sector, the annual investment volume is 300,000 euros; third, by reforming the military education system; and fourth, which is very important for Ukraine, by retraining and social protection of military personnel released, if we think of all those who have been released from the arms of an anti-terror operation in Donbass, that is a very important step for us. The initial cybersecurity projects have become a new battlefield for us against the Russian aggressor. It is only worth mentioning the massive cyber attacks of the day before the Constitution of Ukraine. And the second plane, it's important to emphasize that Ukraine is not only a consumer, but, because of its capabilities, has always been a contributor to security in Euro-Atlantic space. Today, Ukrainian military personnel were also mentioned in the operations and missions of the Alliance. The new interesting direction, in my opinion, is to create a common platform for studying the hybrid war experience in Ukraine. Last year, together with NATO, for the first time, a thematic study was conducted on the resistance to hybrid war, a report that was presented at the Warsaw Summit. It is this experience of Ukraine that must be the subject of a detailed joint study by experts from Ukraine and NATO. Without the practical experience of Ukrainian experts who directly participated in responding to new types of threats, we do not get adequate and practical conclusions. So we offer a number of formats for this cooperation: intersectoral research projects for the theoretical processing of Ukraine's experience in countering hybrid war, seminars for the development of experiences in specific areas of hybrid war and the preparation of practical recommendations, training and training as tools for practical study of Ukraine's experience and conference for broad discussion and awareness of new challenges and threats to national and international security. Everything mentioned above can be combined within the framework of a hybrid war study platform. And so, the partnership between Ukraine and NATO has a long history and a broad perspective, in our view. Convinced that after all the necessary reforms, Ukraine will become a NATO member, as recorded in the 2008 Bucharest Summit Declaration. There are simply no alternatives to this in today’s conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Pavlovich. And the word is given to the head of the Permanent Delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Irina Vasilovni Frez. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Presidents, distinguished colleagues, friends, participants! Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I warmly welcome all those present in this historic room for all Ukrainians, where the country of Ukraine was reborn on 24 August 1991. I understand that a closing statement in a two-hour, even solemn session can be an unforgivable task for any speaker. I will therefore be concise and specific, although the amount of the relationship between Ukraine and NATO is more than 20 years old. Our country's inter-parliamentary cooperation with the Alliance was launched almost immediately after the formation of an independent Ukrainian state, as already discussed by the honourable Mr. President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And in 1992 a Permanent Delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly was formed with the status of an associate member, the first head of which is Mr. John the Rabbit, National Deputy John the Rabbit, present today in this Hall. [[Applause]] Obviously, the most important achievement of our bilateral inter-parliamentary cooperation was, is and will be an open, fruitful dialogue that has always remained high, and the unprecedented level of trust that we have today in our relationship. Over the years of cooperation, Ukrainian society has gone from post-radian denial of the general existence of an alliance in its consciousness to an unprecedented level of support, which has been discussed on a number of occasions today, referring to sociological research in recent months. This transformation took place because we have all this time felt sympathy, support, genuine partnership support from our friends, colleagues of the member states of the Alliance. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly was the first international organization to apply, not to words, but to sanction Russia after the aggression against Ukraine, by excluding the delegation of the Russian Federation from its ranks. I can say, even though I have little experience, that there is no need for this delegation to be returned to this distinguished Assembly at all. For many of us, it is also a long time in memory of what Mr. Speaker was talking about, visiting a delegation of the Assembly led by Hugh Bailey’s then head of the Mayan barricades. Members of that memorable visit, member of the Bureau of the Assembly of our Turkish friend Metin Lutfi Bydar, our sincere friend of the Secretary-General of the Assembly of David Hobbs, director of the Committee of Andrews Avisus, as well as advisor and permanent associate of ours, who assists in the entire Ukrainian delegation within the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of Svetlan Svetov. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We will always be grateful to the members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for the principle of a position on condemning Russian aggression against Ukraine and for Ukraine's unequivocal support for the integrity of borders and the restoration of our sovereignty. territorial integrity. In the parliamentary dimension of Ukraine-NATO relations, the main place of representation of countries in inter-parliamentary cooperation is primarily through the activities of a permanent delegation within the Assembly, on the one hand, and on the other, to visit the delegation of the Assembly to Ukraine. So, especially intense, you might say, our interaction has become in today's calling of the Supreme Council. It is enough to say that in the last year that we have talked about today, Mr. Paolo Ally, today’s high-ranking head of the Assembly, is officially visiting our country for the third time. During the same period, the fourth forum of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is being held in Ukraine, including the second seminar on Rose-Rotta. We want to hope that soon we will indeed have the honour of having a direct session of the Assembly of Parliamentary NATO to prove once again that Ukraine is not only a reliable partner, but also a coherent partner for Euro-Atlantic integration. Another important activity with the Parliamentary Assembly is parliamentary control over the implementation of the Euro-Atlantic integration strategy of Ukraine. To this end, the Inter-Parliamentary Council of Ukraine-NATO was formed in 2003 as a bilateral monitoring body. The last meeting of the Council took place in Kiev in April of this year and was followed by an evaluation of the implementation of the Ukraine-NATO Annual National Cooperation Programme, approved by the relevant recommendations. We see that the role of this body will continue to grow, efficiency will increase. I can also mention the law that was passed in this room on June 8. So the members of the permanent delegation of Ukraine can have every right to be proud because they are all co-authors of our speaker's initiative to adopt in the legislative field the immediate acquisition of Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. It's not just a big decision for Ukraine, it's a matter of our being. In fact, it does not only reflect the civilizational choice of our people; it actually links our future to a member of the alliance as an institution that allows us to move forward and get rid of all the past that the Russian Federation has planted on us. In addition, I think this decision may give new meaning to new breathing, so a decision at the 2008 Bucharest Summit that was taken on the future membership of Ukraine and Georgia in NATO and together to put it into practice. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I would like once again to thank you, especially foreign guests, for the great positive attention to Ukraine, which is active in our inter-parliamentary forums. In this we see the guarantee that Ukraine, together with the friendly nations of NATO member states, will soon become an integral part of the common Euro-Atlantic space, just as they are now sharing common values and choosing them at the cost of their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Irina! And I would also like to thank our entire parliamentary delegation, which represents Ukraine in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. There is no doubt that our parliamentary group is particularly active in this calling. But most importantly, it has a foundation and has the support of a hall on its way to Euro-Atlantic integration. I remember being a member of a parliamentary group in cooperation with the Euro-Atlantic Union in the seventh year. And I remember how Ukraine's former leadership tried to simulate the way to NATO by all means, and in fact one of the first decisions that was initiated in that room after the President of Ukraine was elected Yanukovich, that was the decision to change the Law on Foreign and Internal Policy, which was ruled out as the direction of Ukraine's foreign policy of joining NATO. And it's been many years since we were able in this room for the initiative of the parliamentary group to return this decision to the Ukrainian law, which was in our law, which was formulated in this room, which NATO was and remains in a key direction for Ukraine. And on that road, it doesn't matter. We have felt very much for all three years the support of our partners in the Parliamentary Assembly. And not once has it been mentioned here that these stormy days of Maidan, when the Parliamentary Assembly, its delegation, a very representative delegation of all the countries of the world were with us in Maidan. I emphasized that their participation had an important symbolic significance in establishing our rightfulness and in establishing the values behind which Midan, Midan, continued today, stood. Because right after the shootings took place on Maidan, actually the day our boys were shot at the Main Independence, on the Institute's February 20th, Russian aggression started in Crimea. Few know, and the prizes for Russian military capture of Crimea were given to Putin on February 20, the day of the shooting of the Maydan boys who had no experience in resisting an armed war machine, Putin began aggression against Ukraine on the same day. And I remember these first months and weeks when we were faced with a problem that we couldn't even think about and imagine a few years earlier. When military action began in the Crimea and then in the East of Ukraine, in the Donetsk region, in the Lugansk region, I remember, as I was then Secretary of the RNB, we were meeting with a strategic operational group and we were thinking what the answer would be to these challenges. And you have to admit in a few years, Janukovic's reign, the period when, as I have already pointed out, reform was more likely to be simulated, the way to NATO was actually simulated, the Ukrainian army was actually deliberately destroyed, the Ukrainian special forces were actually deliberately destroyed. Moreover, a number of Ukrainian security forces and units have been directly influenced by Russian intelligence agents, and since the beginning of the aggression, they have been organized to side with the enemy. And in fact, at that time it became a key, most important task for Ukraine is to reform the security and defence sector of our country, a very large-scale reform that envisioned a long-term perspective. And although we were faced with very quick, very tactical tasks: stopping the enemy, preventing him from moving to other parts of Ukraine, then, with the help of North Atlantic Alliance advisors, we started preparing security sector reform and defence for the whole country. And even today, we can say that this step, which was then taken jointly by all the leaders of the country, is now producing its results. Then the path that we have become in very close cooperation with NATO, with the Parliamentary Assembly, today demonstrates that the Ukrainian army is one of the most powerful armies in the region and that the Ukrainian army will undoubtedly become one of the most powerful armies in Europe. And it's not just protecting Ukraine, it's protecting the entire free world, it's protecting NATO, and it's protecting our NATO allies. And I am convinced that on that path, Ukraine, in cooperation with NATO, will win, because any imperial designs in this century had no prospect, because the free world has demonstrated that in our unity we are ready to stop any aggression and any violence. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you all for taking part in this without exaggerating the historic celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Charter for a Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO is an important historic stage. But I am sure, in the next stages of our cooperation, we very much hope and expect that one of the next NATO Parliamentary Assemblys will be held in Ukraine, Kiev, and we will have the honour of meeting our guests right at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And I believe that one day we will meet in this room to celebrate Ukraine's entry into the North Atlantic Alliance together. [[Applause]] The event dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Charter of Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO declares closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-03-m0.u19	Glory to Ukraine! And I invite everyone to the palace of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there we will continue our discussion and our discussion of the future of our cooperation. Thank you.
