ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register, colleagues, please. [[16:03:57]] 336 cards registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. But, colleagues, I have a suspicion that there are no 336 deputies in the Chamber, but cards 336. And I want to tell you that right now I'm going to be voting for the personal presence of the deputies in the colleague's room. We have the next draft law, the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which is of great international importance to Ukraine. And I can't allow us to fail the laws of the level that will strike by the authority of our state. So, your honor, I'm about to make a personal vote on the presence of deputies in the hall. And I ask everyone to prepare for a personal rating vote for the presence of deputies in the hall. Please invite the deputies to the Hall and prepare for the rating vote. I'll wait 30 seconds. Please come in and get ready. So, are you ready? I'm running a personal rating vote right now. If the room doesn't have enough votes to hold the session, I'll just close the session, colleagues. So take up your jobs. I don't think that's acceptable to work. On the Conciliation Council, there's just a lot of references to a bill, and when we come to making decisions, there's just no discipline in the room that's necessary for work. I'm not going to talk to the rostrum anymore, I'm just going to close the meeting, colleagues. So please take part in the vote on the personal presence of MPs in the hall. Please vote and please vote in favour. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:07:24]] For-167 167 is "for", 1 is "against", 1 is "retained". So in room 169. Turn on the factions, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 56, "National Front" – 43, "Opposition Block" – 13, "self-help" – 16, Radical Party – 14, "Fatherhood" – 6, "Rebirth" – 7, "Will of the People" – 1. Colleagues, I'm done teasing. In view of the absence of the necessary number of deputies, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, a colleague. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Tomorrow will be the closing day of our session. Tomorrow's "Government Hour," after "Government Hour" we'll close the session. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room for an hour of questions to the government.
