ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall, prepare for registration, wait for the nominee. Sidorovich Ruslan. All of it. I'm sorry for your indecisiveness. Let's go. Are you ready to register? I'd like you to sign up, please, colleagues. [[10:06:25]] There are 280 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Mihajlovich Sidorovich. Let's say hello to our colleague. [[Applause]] And I want you to know that today, according to the Rules, we have an hour of questions to the government. And members of the government are taking part in the plenary session, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Hello, colleagues. I would also like to inform you that today we will try to read all the questions in connection with the fact that we did not read the questions last Friday. And so after "the hour of questions to the government," we're going to take more time to read the questions. And now I ask everyone who has a question for the government, who wants to listen to information from the government, to prepare for active and productive work. Two ministers will report today: Minister of Social Policy Andrew Reva and Minister of Justice Paul Petrenko. I mean, that's how they're going to be, right? Then I invite you to the rostrum of Social Policy Minister Andrija Alexiyovich Revou. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present! Let me tell you about the progress made in implementing the basic provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on pension increases. It is known that on October 3, 2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension increases, which was prepared by the government and worked by the deputy corps. I would like to thank all the people who have participated in the drafting of this bill and have made changes and allowed it to improve significantly. In accordance with the approved law of October 1, 2017, Ukraine had recalculated and updated previously assigned pensions by a single formula, irrespective of the year in which the pension pension was granted on pension materials using the only average salary rate in the last three years, i.e. 2014-2016, the amount of 3 000,764 dollars 40 copies, the rate of subsistence for non-working citizens was set at December 1, 217, which was increased by the proposals of national MPs, such as the Radical Party, to 70 dollars. Seventy-nine dollars is up to one hundred and fifty-two. Recalculations are made automatically on pension materials, without the benefit of pensioners. What I'm saying is that the implementation of the law began right after it became effective. The Supreme Council passed the law on October 3rd, the President signed the 8th, the 10th law was published, and on the 11th he went into effect, the positions that applied to the recalculation of pensions. Out of the total number of pensioners, 11.7 million people, the pension is increased by 10 million 238,000 859 of our pensioners, or 90 percent of their total number. Some 900,000 individuals who receive pensions under special laws are not listed. This is about national deputies, government officials, officials of local self-government and other categories that had the right to special pensions, and which is not appropriate today, because they have a higher pension than the one that could be assigned to them by law, as well as those categories of citizens who were assigned pensions in 2015-2017. The average pension after counting increases by 559 rubies to 78 pcs. And if the average pension in Ukraine was 1886 dollars 78 dollars before the law, it is now an average of 2 thousand 446 dollars 56 dollars. This was made possible by the principled position of national deputies, those who voted not only for this law, but also for the Law 1774, which allowed the minimum wage to be increased in Ukraine from 1 January 2017 to 3 000 200 dollars. Those who voted in favour of Ukraine’s National Budget for 2017, which provides for an increase in salaries in the budget area, particularly in education, by 50 per cent, and many other decisions supported by the deputy corps. Without that, we wouldn't have had any resources to recalculate our pensions. And so once again, I want to thank and thank all of you, Mr. People's Members, that this line to raise social standards, raise wages, we will keep on with you, getting additional resources and carrying out the continuous modernisation of pensions for our pensioners. I want to report that the additional expenditure in October was aimed at increasing pensions by 6 billion 400 million dollars. Increases in pensions have been made since October 11, which means that every pensioner will receive a new pension. An extra payment was made to those who received a pension from October 3 to 11, 11 and 12. Thus, the government is fully accounted for with pensioners by the end of October 2017. Retirement recipients under special laws that make it advisable to retire according to the rules of the adopted law will receive increased payments in November. The second important decision is to abolish the restriction on the payment of pensions for workers. Pensioners who have worked since October 1, 2017 will receive it at a full-time salary of 15 percent and more than 600,000 in Ukraine. So that's another promotion that was made by the people's deputies. In doing so, we will encourage pensioners to stay at work for as long as possible and to work for both retirement and salary. The third important solution is the introduction of a permanent annual pension recalculation index, which will be indexed by an increase in the wages from which they are calculated, by a 50 per cent increase in consumer prices and by a 50 per cent increase in average earnings in Ukraine, from which insurance premiums are paid. So this way of indexing and recalculating pensions allows all pensioners to be kept at the same level at all times, regardless of retirement, and to keep them up to date. I want to tell you that in 2019 we, in addition to modernizing those who have gone through now, will also be modernising pensions for those who have gone on decent vacation in 2015, 2016 and 2017. And so pensions are equaled in Ukraine at the same rate, and the same rate of income gap in pension insurance is no longer going to be, and this is the main conquest that we've achieved together. Four. Since 2018, we have increased the role of the insurance internship in determining pension rights. We do not raise the retirement age, but we leave the right for those who have worked hard and have earned the right to retire when they reach the age of 60. In doing so, the system’s insurance bases are being strengthened, greater requirements are being established for the insurance system, and the possibility of retirement has been strengthened since January 2018 for those who have worked and paid contributions for 25 years or more. Even a simple calculation shows that working for 35 years and even receiving a minimum wage, you can earn a minimum pension that you can then receive for 18 years. At the time, if a person did not work or work for himself or pay his premiums, he would not receive a pension at the expense of others and would retire later. We have reserved the right to a pension with minimum insurance for all at the age of 15 years after reaching 65 years. This is done under conditions that those working in the shadow sector, non-formal employment sectors or working abroad, are provided with all the possibilities for voluntary participation in the pension system and insurance contributions. The importance of a one - time payment of insurance premiums is also anticipated. I want to speak to Ukrainian citizens, this rule, about reparation, it's in the law now. And since the law comes into force completely as of January 1, the 2 coefficient will apply only as of January 1, 2018. So those who want to compensate for the internship now can do it with the coefficient 1. You have two and a half months left to compensate for what you do not have. It is possible to compensate for periods of service when a person was not subject to compulsory State social insurance. The right to early retirement is reserved for mothers who raised five children or disabled persons from childhood at 50 years of age. Military participants in hostilities – 55 years of age, lilyputs and disproportionate dwarfs – 40-45 years of age, 20-35 years of service, journalists in the event of injuries, injuries, disabilities, and service duties in emergency locations, as well as in Chernobyl. There has also been a cancellation of the reduction in pension for women who have benefited from early retirement after reaching the age of 55. The pension will be paid in full after they reach their retirement age, which exceeds the retirement age for several months. And virtually all of them have been restored to the full size of their pension -- 1 thousand 452 bracelets. The fifth important decision is to deprive the solidarity system of its own expense. To reduce and eliminate the deficit of the Pension Fund, all non-proprietary expenditures of the system are transferred to the state budget. This creates a real retirement system, and more specifically, its solidarity level, which is the first level of our pension system. Many other money in the law that was passed strengthened the solidarity system, ensuring its transparency and predictability. And the main thing. The increase in pensions we've made is not inflationary. We didn't print the funds, we didn't borrow from international financial institutions, we didn't increase the grant from the state budget. This money came from the economy. They are non-inflationary, which means they should not lead to inflation and price hikes. These changes gradually eliminate the retirement stereotyping of what will be given by the State, whether you work or not. Retirement is a personal salary. And the sixth thing I want to pay attention to. There is now a great deal of talk about the subsidy, which is said to reduce the heating subsidy due to the increase in the pension. I officially want to state from this rostrum, this is not true, the new increased pension size does not affect the amount of the subsidy allocated to the heating season 2017-2018. The new size of the pension will be taken into account when granting subsidies only from May 2018. Thus, no reduction in subsidies at the expense of a larger pension will take place. Today we are working on drafting the following bills, because this is the first step in reforming the pension system. It is now being prepared and will shortly be submitted to the Supreme Council a bill on the recalculation of pensions for military personnel and staff members of the force. They have a separate law, and we have to adopt it, too, a new law. We have 554 thousand of them, and they have not been reviewed since 2012, and there is a huge pension gap. Second, the Law on the Order of Retirement Payments, which the pensioner was entitled to, but was not granted in connection with his stay in the territory, to the temporarily uncontrollable government of Ukraine. Third, preparation for the implementation of the accumulation system. The bill envisions the introduction of a stockpiling system in Ukraine on January 1, 2019. I want to tell you that the government has approved an order in which a prescribed plan of action is phased out, how we have to do it in order to comply with this rule of law. The pension reform adopted in October 2017 is only the first step towards achieving social justice, financial balance and sustainability of the pension system. Because Ukraine needs to develop the labour market, reduce shadow employment and corruption, and increase the motivation for employment potential to participate in social, including pension insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u3	Thank you, Andrey Alexiyovich, for the report. And I invite you to speak with the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitrovich Petrenko. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u4	Good day, distinguished national MPs, good day, respected Ukrainian citizens! Allow me to present and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine today on the results of one of the most socially important systems of the Government of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice – a system of free legal assistance of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Man, his rights and dignity are the greatest value of any democratic state. But a person who has no opportunity to defend his rights and restore justice is a hostage of the state’s inactivity, and such a state has no historical success in the historical retrospective. Immanuel Kant once said that when justice fails, there is nothing that has the value of human life. The Ukrainian Constitution of 1996 stipulates that Ukrainian citizens are equal before the law and have equal access to justice regardless of their property status. And so it was that we were a country of inequality and injustice, we were a country of strong and rich people who had more access to protection, and we respected the rights of those who couldn't get that kind of protection. And that was Ukraine's systemic problem, and that's why, I'm sure, the level of confidence in justice, in the judicial system and in all state institutions is extremely low, because a person who can't be protected by the rules established by the State, that person doesn't trust that State and considers that State to be incapable of fulfilling the basic institutional obligations of society. That's why it was a very significant period of the Dignity Revolution when millions of people went to Midan to protect their rights from the abuse, from corruption, from the greed of state institutions. It was then that the judicial system, the law enforcement system, was used as a tool to suppress the rights guaranteed to man by the Constitution. It was then that virtually all institutions of the State demonstrated their inability to protect human dignity and human rights. The only institution that worked effectively with civil society and law - enforcement organizations at that time was a system of free legal aid that had just begun to emerge. They were independent lawyers who informed us as participants in the revolution and opposition to detainees, about people who were illegally thrown into prison. So when I came to the Office of the Ministry of Justice, it was in principle for me to develop the system and make it as strong and powerful as possible so that millions of Ukrainians could have access to justice and justice. In 2014, the government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk launched a large-scale system of free legal aid, then we opened over a hundred free legal aid centres throughout the country and provided access to such assistance to millions of Ukrainians. For the time being, for the government of Vladimir Groysman, this is one of the priorities – the development and strengthening of a system of free legal aid that affects eight million Ukrainians. Today, I want to inform you about how the system works and what this system provides for a simple Ukrainian. So now we have, starting in 2014, 550 free legal aid centres, which are being built all over the country, they provide advice to an average of 700,000 Ukrainian citizens every year. It's a question of hiring subsidies, protecting against civil servants, forming land relations, those people who, in principle, did not have access to justice for 20 years. Free legal aid is provided to pensioners, under-resourced, ATO participants, veterans, families of the dead, internally displaced persons of over 1.5 million people. I think the system today is a model of cooperation and civil society and the state and Ukrainian citizens who trust this system. In a year, we've fixed less than one percent of complaints about the work of our lawyers, the lawyers who work in the free legal aid system. We see a lot of problems that exist in state institutions. I want to give you simple examples of human history that we see in the face of a system of free legal aid. Consider: Every year, over six hundred lawyers who work in the Justice Department system receive justifiable sentences. It's usually people who don't have the right and the ability to protect: they're people without a place to live, they're people with disabilities, they're people who've always been using the law enforcement system as statisticians to cheat on them. That is, 600 people are relieved of responsibility each year because they are innocent in criminal matters. Similarly, about a hundred thousand pensioners receive annual assistance on issues related to the collection of subsidies, the collection of social assistance. I had an example in Hmelnicki, when a 70-year-old pensioner, given the court's decision to collect debts from a bankrupt bank, fought together with our lawyers for six months for a certain liquidator to pay that money. We have implemented this decision, but most importantly, the officials who claim the rights of the Ukrainians must be held accountable. And that's why we're at a new stage in the development of a free legal aid system. This is not just the help of Ukrainians who need a free lawyer or a lawyer’s advice from the Ministry of Justice. It's the fixation of those systemic violations that we now have in the judicial system, both in the law enforcement system, and in the authorities of the state, and the reaction of the state and government, and the President to the violation with specific exemptions, with a specific appeal to the responsibility of specific officials. Because in a particular area, we're identifying dozens of cases of human rights violations on the part of the representatives of the State Department or the tax officers, and they're in their posts -- that's unacceptable. That's why the Ukrainian government defined the following year and the next three years to implement the project "I'm Right." This project will in fact disseminate information to Ukrainian citizens about their rights, give them protection tools, and it is essential to monitor systemic violations by local and central authorities of these rights, and to bring those responsible to justice. This project is currently under the auspices of the President of the country. And I very much expect that we together – the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Government – will ensure not only the declarative guarantee of rights to Ukrainians, but we will ensure the real guarantee and realization of the rights of Ukrainians each year. Those rights are written in beautiful laws. But those rights that can't actually be realized because the bureaucrat and the official abuse ignorance, abuse the uninformed Ukrainian, and actually create a huge rehearsal problem for the whole state. That's why, honourable national deputies, I want to thank you. During these three years, you are both in the budget and in the changes to the legislation you have been building a large system with us. At present, the system of free legal aid, which has been established in Ukraine, is a model at appropriate international levels. In New York at the United Nations General Assembly, it was our system that was recommended to the participating States as the most effective and that ensured the maximum realization and protection of the rights of the individual. So I am convinced that we are at the beginning of the great path of restoring trust and dialogue between man and state, when man and state are partners, when human rights and values and protection are the primary task and value of any state. And that is the kind of state that we will build together with you when the right of a person is sacred, when the right of a person is guaranteed and protected in court. To that end, we will go a long way and we will create this system in a way that Ukrainian citizens will be proud of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, so there's going to be an enrollment on the question to members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm asking everyone who wants to ask a question to prepare for the recording. Prepared? Please hold the recording. Puckan Valeriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a question for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Education. Mr. Klimkin, good afternoon. I wanted to ask you about the latest negotiations in the Carpathian section and part of the language laws. What arrangements have been reached with Hungary? And is the implementation of the Education Act going to work in the standards that we described in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u7	Who will answer, colleagues? What's our break? Minister of Foreign Affairs, turn on the microphone, please. He didn't hear the question. Well, please, 30 seconds, repeat very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u8	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I ask you to answer the situation regarding the language issue of the last talks with Hungary. And will the Education Act and the Education Act work? If possible, your answer and the response of Minister of Education Greenevich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Thank you for asking. During the last few days, I held talks with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, Peter Siarto. And yesterday, we had our joint talks with the Minister of Education of Ukraine, Mrs. Lilia Greenevich, with the Minister of Human Resources of Hungary, Mr. Balog. As a result, first, it is agreed that we will work together with Ukrainian citizens of Hungarian origin, with the Hungarian community on the implementation plan. One second. We have worked hard, of course, with all the countries of the European Union and not just to explain the meaning of the law. Thus, in order to prevent dissemination, particularly in Hungarian media and some Hungarian mythology politicians, of what is the law, how it will be implemented and what they claim would be contrary to key international instruments. We now agree that we will work consistently with the goal of both our international work and the implementation of the law on the basis of what the Supreme Council has adopted. As appropriate, the conclusions of the Venice Commission can be taken into account in the sense that this will be considered necessary in the drafting of the new General Secondary Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u10	Thank you. The question is given to Dmitrenkov Oleg Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u11	Give it to Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u12	Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u13	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! 189th constituency, Hmelnichtina. We were asked to convey our sincere gratitude to you and to the government in charge of you for the reform of your pension and for the educational reform you have developed. The pensioners have already experienced this, and they are very grateful to you and to all of us who voted for it. And my question is. You visited Neteshin, the atomic station, Volodymyr Borisovich. And there's a lot of expectations after your meeting you've come to realize that you understand this subject and that you want Ukraine's energy independence. Your sincere request is not to forget the subject or leave it behind, but to continue. It's about building two reactors. We can not only provide ourselves but also trade and sell electricity in Poland. There's a LEP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, thank you for your question. In fact, according to the energy strategy that we've approved and that will be in place by 2035, we predict an increase in the power and development of nuclear energy. I mean, after my trip to Neteshina, I didn't forget, and we're doing an increase in nuclear power today. Literally, a few weeks ago in Kharkiv, a number of contracts were signed during my work trip with our American partners to modernize and increase the power of the country's respective atomic stations. And we're also working today on the European energy that will give us the opportunity, and I think we'll probably be able to get to the addition of the two blocks that you're talking about today by 2021. That's our plan. We're doing this seriously and systematically, and we're going to do everything we can to make nuclear energy, first of all, safe, and the power was enough not only to provide ourselves, but also to export electricity, which will make our country's economy more stable and developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Gregory Aronovich gives the floor to Lušnjak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u16	Good afternoon! I have a question for Mr. Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, our Prime Minister. Thank you very much for the balanced budget in the APC area, where I see that your indifference to small and medium-sized businesses, namely, this is a billion per farm, financial support, you're reducing by 2 billion, also very grateful to you. Because I can see that you've seen what injustice is in 2017 and you're putting 2,300 on the animal sector. But what would you see on the budget committee? That Minfin, in spite of your good intentions, supports the oligarchy, namely, they lobbyed for maintenance of a fine that allows more than 150 million dollars in 2018. This bill in the Budget Law was agreed upon by all factions, and so I ask whether Minfin supports the oligarchy that is now in the Ukrainian people or the simple, small and medium-sized business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u17	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, in the 2018 draft budget, we pay special attention to the development of the country's agri-industrial complex. I promised you that, and I think it's absolutely top priority, and it's reflected in the budget project. What exactly are we going to spend our money on? No way we've ever supported or supported any oligarchs, we're not on the road with them, and we're going to support domestic producers, quality agriculture, and we can't limit anyone who's produced that much. But separately and what's absolutely fair here, we need to support small and medium-sized rural businesses in the agricultural sector. And what did we do? We've taken very important and complex steps, we've foreseen support and national farming, we've foreseen support and reconstruction of our animal complex, we've foreseen support for the agriculture industry. And today this program has already started, one of the farmers, 50 million already, agrarians, bought 50 million of their country's Ukrainian technology. There wouldn't be this program, like, literally recently, I saw the last deal that was made. If that were not the case, there would be no jobs in this area, and this area will only develop. And of course, we will also support tribal animals and so on. So today, I think, in 2018, we will do more than ever absolutely faithful, balanced steps to support the agri-industrial complex. Everyone will feel it. What do I need? I need a job and a job in the country. And I need Ukrainian markets to have quality, competitive and affordable Ukrainian products on Ukrainian shelves. This is our task, and we're going to start this hugely in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u18	Thank you. Mr. Dudenkov gives the floor to a question to the national MP, Gusak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u19	I have a question for the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. Dear Igor Stepanovich, back in May last year, right after his appointment, I asked you a question about the repayment of government mine wages. Then you said it was the responsibility of the past government and that the problem would be solved. But the problem has not been solved since then. Salary debt is constant and now exceeds 500 million dollars. Sailors in the east of Ukraine strike and refuse to leave the mine. And the Volinwogil mines are covering international routes across the western borders of Ukraine. And the following year’s budget does not have an article on support for the cost of coal products from which wages are paid. I have a question: when this abuse of miners stops, and how will you secure payment of wages on government mines now and next year without budget support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u20	To whom did the question come?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u21	Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Corn Anatoly. Dear National Deputy, your question as to the payment of wages today, and the debt you've named 500 million, a little bit more today, is the government's decision that has been made in the past. A missed meeting, and there was support from the State Committee on Thursday. Wednesday, this week. Now it's working with the Ministry of Finance to issue state support funds, and it's also coming up with funds from the coal industry. That is, more monthly funds will be paid for today and Monday. All that's left is debt, it's going to be raised to the level next week, so it doesn't exist. As far as funding is concerned next year, we have prepared proposals, they are pre-worked, part taken into account, but the work is still going on, and as we hope that will be accepted and the figure that will satisfy the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u22	Thank you. Oleg Barn has a word for the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u23	Praise Jesus Christ! If the official declared by the minister of justice is corrupt and needs to be fought, he must be considered a substitute who led the Commission on the Settlement of Pie Relations and instead lobbyed the interests of the agrohölding, ignoring the decisions of the court and the requests of the simple farmers who own the land. I have a proposal and a position for the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Minister of Finance. Regulate the use of subsidies for community development, or allow these costs to be moved to the second year, or allow them to be used for the current repair of roads. People don't need technology in the village, there's enough agricultural technology, people want a road. Or give you the opportunity to buy materials to build roads next year. And that's the last thing I want. Pensions are raised to the minimum for Chernobyl, liquidators are needed. Because 1,000 500 is a minimum pension, not a person who is 25 years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the state support for united territorial communities and overall regional development is increasing from year to year. You know, we started out with 3 billion, the Regional Development Fund, one billion subsidies from the united territorial communities, and this year we started with one and a half billion and three and a half. But it's very important that these funds are used for community development. Not the current costs, not the wages, not the maintenance, but the projects that communities have to prepare. And so today's requirement for these normative acts that are adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the 2017 budget is to channel these funds to the development budget. Thus, only capital expenditure is directly financed in this direction. As for the remainder of these funds that have not been used for the years to come. The Cabinet of Ministers has now drafted a bill that allows the use of capital expenditure funds to be used for strategic projects with a transition to the following year. It's a question of creating a special fund that can be filled with the transition to the next year and thus reduce the cost of the State budget in December and allow work to be done over two budget periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u25	Thank you. Sergey Eutuszek gives the word for the question to Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u26	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Mr. Prime Minister, a question to you. One of your government’s first decisions was to raise the price of gas to 100% import parity, although it could be done gradually for several years. You did it without a cent to make people pay for what they ate, without energy saving, for which the government only allocates 600 million, for a subsidy of 60 billion. No thermo-modernization. It's like it's an act of fighting corruption. Although it is not clear why people pay for the fight against corruption through their own taxes to law enforcement and anticorruption authorities and through tariffs. Questions to you about the IMF negotiations, which, according to Decree 187, the government must increase the price of gas by 17.6 percent, even though you are now trying to change the formula. Question: Comment on the progress of the negotiations with the IMF and tell us, please, about the market, market regulation or government regulation, which is now being charged by the Fatherland faction in court, unfortunately, which are blocked. But we will get to that decision. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. I'm sorry, the MPs are distracted. We believe that. Well, first of all, we're in dialogue with the International Monetary Fund, and our job is to make the price formula for gas inside the country fair for the future. The formula that is today has not yet been recalculated. And that's why we think she still needs more work. We're in dialogue today and we're doing technical work at the technical level, and as soon as we get this job done, we'll let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Branzovich Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Head. I have a question for the representative of the Ministry of Education regarding yesterday's talks of the Ministry of Education of Hungary. Still, what did you agree on yesterday? I believe that the issue of education does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but belongs to the competence of the Ministry of Education. I have a second question to Mr. Petrenko's Ministry of Justice about the signing in 1991 of the Agreement between Hungary and Ukraine on Good-neighbourliness. And here's what I wrote to you, and I sent a letter to you that Ukraine is providing Hungarian nationals with education in Hungarian. And in that case, if the agreements that are concluded between foreign states are higher than domestic legislation, I ask you to answer whether article 7 of the Law on Education is distributed to citizens of Hungary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u30	Thank you. First Deputy Minister of Education and Science Vladimir Kovtunec Vasil Ivanovich, we are now working on the implementation of the law and the law will be implemented. We share the right of national minorities to learn their own language and to study their own language with them through bilateral consultations. They're constructive, they're productive. We will consider all the possibilities for national minorities and opportunities to learn national language, national culture, national history, literature so that these opportunities are not limited. But situations are very different for different national minorities, for Hungarian individuals. Yesterday, as far as I know, there were productive negotiations with the minister of education. Minister of Human Resources of Hungary. And we hope to find a common language. With regard to bilateral agreements concluded before 96, this issue is at the legal level. It will be decided on a legal level, since the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted later, in 96 C.E. And the question is whether these agreements should have a higher legal power. The point is that the rule of article 7, the norm of article 7, is aimed at the execution of the 1999 Constitutional Court’s decision. So it's a legal issue, it's going to be solved by legal methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitri Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u32	Good afternoon, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich, Major Electoral District 60, Donetsk Region. Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, wanted to draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the problem. Vladimir Borisovich, look, we don't have a third year of budget accounting for one and a half million displaced persons. Now there's an understanding from the Ministry of Finance, but there's a technical problem that I want, and it's from all the majors and people who represent Donetsk and Lugansk to take control. It is necessary for our State Statistical Service to join the Ministry of Social Policy's register of displaced persons. And then all interstate transfers will be accounted for when the budget is adjusted for the following year. That's the first question. And the second. Vladimir Borisovich, I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u33	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u34	Thank you very much. The Mariopolian direction. Vladimir Borisovich, 20 hours of people riding in the very bad cars of the whole country. I know it was a billion-dollar offer to buy 40 new cars. Please consider this. In Mariupul. A very important question, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, about what you said, the Ministry of Social Policy is dealing with this issue. And I think the Minister of Social Policy is going to comment. As far as communication with Mariupul is concerned, it's actually an important question. We've been talking about this recently with Oleg Lášk, about Mariupul's connection. I fully support his offer, and what you said is that there are abnormal conditions for rail transport. So now the question and the task is already being put on the railway, and I put it on last week to update the moving composition, which is very important, and to improve the connection between Mariupol and Mariupol. And we're going to take care of that in the near future. I think that in the coming months this issue will be finally resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u37	Dear Lubinets People's Deputy, I want to say that we have a paradoxical situation in Ukraine. You know, as a result of decentralization, local budgets have a lot of costs, and, well, the costs that are currently in the accounts of district government administrations are almost out of our budget system. And as far as the Donetsk region is concerned, it's all the other way around, and it's serious enough for the state, the government, they're funding the regional military and civil administration. And in principle, there are costs for solving socio-economic problems in the area. But why they don't reach the territorial communities, I think it's a matter of asking the administration. And you probably need to put in control of the spending of these funds where they are today. Because if they were fully used, you would have far fewer questions about the lack of funding for programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u38	Thank you very much. Paul Petrenko has not yet answered the preceding question. And I ask you very much, Mr. Paul, one minute to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to confirm that Ukraine has always kept all its international obligations, and this makes us different from our eastern neighbors. But in the context of the question that was asked, I believe that the Education Act provides for the study and the possibility of learning by appropriate national minorities and teaching by their own languages the responsibility of learning the national language, the Ukrainian language. So in this context, I'm convinced that we're going to find a compromise solution with our neighbors, because learning national language is an obligation for any citizen. In doing so, the State provides an opportunity for him to study the languages of national minorities as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Odarchenko gives the floor to Sergey Mishchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u41	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Volodymyr Borisovich, a question to you. First, I thank you for quickly responding to my last question about the stress in the hospital letters, if you remember quickly, thank you all for this, but there are two other problems. First problem. You know, Cabinet of Ministers Order No.413 of June 7, 2017, it is correct for agricultural land not to be embalmed. But the question is as follows. I'm asked by ATO veterans and ATO participants, which makes us different from those who got the land by June 7th and June 7th, because they don't even accept applications for consideration. So I think we need to work on this decision with regard to these categories of people. And the second question about what. To the minister of social policy in relation to the standard that we increased to the heating season, 75 square meters.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u42	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u43	30. Thank you. Andry Alexiyovich, thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich, for listening to our offer and increasing the social standard from 48.87 to 75 square meters per single person. But now, those with housing of up to 48 square meters are suffering, and their standard is reduced from 5.5 to 5. So this difference must somehow be balanced for the same unsecured citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u44	Dear National Deputy Mishchenko, thank you for your kind words to our address. I want to say that the issue of social norms is always at the centre of attention like the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing and the whole government. We look at social standards every time, coming up with specific problems that occur in Ukraine during the heating season. For the first time, social norms were introduced in 2014. You remember that in 2016 we were criticized for opening quarters, as if someone told them that if they did not use that standard of gas, they would not be given a subsidy. And as we didn't fight this phenomenon, it took place in the heating season of 2015-2016. In the heating season 2016-2017, such complaints were reduced. And I absolutely assure you that there will be no such complaints during this heating season, because we found, in principle, the optimal ratio of housing to single pensioners and the amount of gas used to do so. If there are any problems, after the heating season is over, we will return to the subject and regulate again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u45	Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u46	Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. And thank you for your question about land. What was the need for this determination? This decision made the earth’s dregs impossible. It's been in operation since summer. This means that all new lands can be transferred only through auction. All right, dot. And no one can do anything around here as they've been rolling around with land all over the country. This is an important decision. It went a little unnoticed, but this is an extremely important decision. Moreover, we stopped the waste of state land from state enterprises. If you remember, there was a pattern: one company refused and the other said that it wanted to take it. No, you want to give up the land from a state-owned enterprise if you don't need it to produce, please, an auction, and have someone buy it for real money. Period. That's what this decision is about. We fully support the right to implement, so that ATO veterans have the right to obtain land. But this must be done in a balanced way so that it does not become a loophole for someone. Because true ATO veterans have the right to land, we support and respect our heroes. But we need to make sure that no one uses it or opens a loophole for the ruby of Ukrainian soil. Here's the important question. We're open, let's get this right, let's face it, let's take it honestly so that both Ukraine and our ATO veterans can win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u47	Moses gives the word for Andrew Lozov’s question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u48	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Question to Prime Minister Vladimir Groisman of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I was asked this question by our compatriots last Monday from Umani, Volina. This question has been asked many times in various parts of our country. Mr. Prime Minister, people demand justice. This year’s salary was raised to teachers from January 1. Instead of paying out-of-school workers' salaries, they're kindergartens, they're kindergartens, they're children's houses, they're out-of-school workers -- they're art, sports, music schools, groups, sections, they've only been paid since September 1st. This is totally unfair, and the same teachers agree. And I'm warning you, and our team is asking you not to let this injustice happen next year. Raise wages for teachers of all levels from January 1st – from kindergarten to university, teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Before I give you my answer, I'll tell you, colleagues, we've got about 30 seconds left. There'll be just one more question. Who do we have? Dubnevich Jaroslav. That's it. One more question, and we're finishing an hour of questions to the government. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u50	Thank you for your question, and thank you for your concern for Ukrainian teachers and educational staff in general. I would like to emphasize that for me personally, for our government, this is an overriding priority, the support of our Ukrainian education. Thank you for your decision on reform. We are starting these important changes, and the priority of funding next year will also be education. In fact, the difference in this kind of funding, because we predicted from the state budget from January 1st, and the local budgets from September 1st, these were two different budgets. But I want to give it to the local leaders, the local leaders, and I would say, who made the decisions and also started the payment early on January 1st, and that was in most countries, maybe there were exclusions. But what about next year? So we want all of the education staff to get promoted, but we have to be very balanced, because the cost, so far, I'm underlining, of the state budget is quite limited. That's why our priority is the development of the national economy, but this is in the focus of my attention, I want to assure you, Minister of Education in the field of view. So I want to assure you that we're thinking about it and working on it. Next year, we're predicting an increase in wages for our education, for our teachers, by another 25 percent plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u51	Thank you. And last question, Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, this week at the Transport Committee, we discussed the issue of "The Crossroads" and raised questions to the Minister of Transport, Omelyan Vladimir, about the failure of the Ministry of Duty to change the tariff collection in part of the removal of zero rates on freight wagons, on empty freight wagons. This change in the tariff collection has already been required by the Ministry of Transport for more than 8 months. The government, the Cabinet of Ministers, cancelled Azarov’s orders 209 years ago. The minister stated that he was not allowed to take it to Kabmin, although it was not necessary to take it out, but only to be confirmed by his order from the Ministry of Infrastructure. And please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u53	Come on, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u54	Vladimir Borisovich, I'm asking for your intervention, this will allow you to remove a huge corruption component in the distribution of freight cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. As soon as the first deputy minister informed me that they had already sent a message to agree on this normative act. But I want to assure you that I have never heard from a minister that there is a delay in accepting this act, I hear it from you for the first time. So now the First Deputy Minister has heard that, and I think he's going to be faster to consider and move to the government. We don't have a problem with that, the government works fast, electronic communication, that's the question of how the problem with the minister's mouth didn't sound. Thank you. Is that the Prime Minister's order? Is that an order from the minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u56	Even, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Colleagues suggest that it is not a government decision, it does not require any separate government decisions. It's the Minister's decision, so the government's got nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u57	And please, Vladimir Borisovich, it is important for the Supreme Council that you say the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! I'm going to visit Wolin on a work trip. But first of all, I want to thank you. I want to thank you for taking so many important steps over the past and a half months to open up new opportunities for quality education to Ukraine. You've just heard from the Minister of Social Policy, we've begun to establish a fair pension. And in fact, we're only going to do the first recalculation right now, and then there's going to be another increase in 2019. So thank you to all those who voted both shame and shame to those who have failed to press the green button and start restoring justice in our country in terms of pensioners. I'm stressing that this is just the beginning, but this is already the beginning of a recalculation of pensions for 9 million pensioners. I would also like to thank you, dear colleagues, for. Thank you, dear colleagues, for the adoption of health reform yesterday. An extremely difficult health - care system, which is extremely conservative. I'm sorry. An extremely conservative, highly conservative system, a system that leads to despair. People are also desperate because there are no basic things for normal treatment. Yesterday, with a responsible vote, we opened up the possibility of these changes. In a few years, we're rebuilding the system. Instead, we will create new treatment facilities. And I would ask Ukrainian citizens and doctors, don't listen to anybody, nobody would shut anything down. Those who frighten you, they scare you. Look, over the last few years, those who have been scaring you have been afraid that pensions are wrong, and they've scared you that decentralization is gone, and they're scaring you that there's not going to be anything else. I mean, their scarecrows are totally their inventions. The inventions they're going to destroy are going to destabilize. It's their way, they're on it, and they're gonna end up on this road. Our path with you is a strong Ukraine, a strong economy, just pensions. We have to take the lead in international markets with you. We have to fill Ukraine with Ukrainian quality products. We have a lot of work to do with you, and Ukraine will become a completely independent and powerful country. So right now, and I'm going to ask you, we need to finally put a dot and destroy corruption in state companies, state enterprises. Let's become that Parliament, firstly, we will prove that we will be the first in 26 years to create the absolutely right legislation on public, transparent and quality and responsible privatization of non-strategic enterprises in the country. How many of you are going to put up with these bribes, and who else is there hiding them from the various institutions of power, how will they make money on government property? That's enough. They have to make money on government property from Ukrainians. These are new jobs, these are investments. In a few years, we will see serious economic growth, its acceleration. That's what we have to do. We also need to approve the 2018 budget. I suggest we do this as quickly as possible. What should we drag under the tree? The government brought him in in September. We worked well with factions. What are we going to do when there's about 160 billion in Ukrainian defence, of which 16.5 billion are for the upgrade of Ukrainian weapons? This means that the entire military-industrial complex will get jobs, orders, and our industry will grow. We need to support the agrarian sector that was mentioned today. The point is that we will begin to rebuild in Ukraine. After the budget vote, there will be a program when in zero percent of Ukraine can have, farmers, the cost of building new farms, new dairy complexes. We're also going to support the development of the head, we're going to allocate 2 billion. We set up a program with farmers to examine the Ukrainian farmer. Farming is 1 billion. And I introduced a deputy, the government supported, an APC deputy on agriculture. We're doing a huge 45 billion -- building Ukrainian roads. The road will be more than that next year. Decentralization, raising social standards for Ukrainian teachers, supporting Ukrainian schools, and supporting health reform are free medicines. I can list you a lot more of those systemic important things that are going to change the country. So, guys, I want to ask you: let's once again prove to everyone that we're capable of making decisions, and this is actually going to be the best parliament that has ever been in our history of independence. We will not be judged by the way we speak from the rostrum, we will be judged by the decisions and their implementation. And I know what we can do with you: and make a decision, and make a decision. And people will feel it, and they will always treat us, the authorities they trust to make decisions and implement them. So we fight for Ukraine and win! Thank you, everyone, for your success.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister, thank you to the government for being here when Parliament has adopted such important reforms. I hope for the next victory for Ukraine, for the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine! And, colleagues, we're moving on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't hang up, no! We're going to ask questions. I would like to remind you that questions were not read last Friday, so we will try to read all the questions: both last week’s and this week’s. I hope we can do that. And I invite you to read the questions of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, today there are 286 requests from national deputies. As a result of last session Friday’s mess in the hall, we did not, as you know, have any public requests. So I continue to work until 12.15 to read in an hour the maximum number of requests registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And after the break, we're going to have a different section. So the questions came from the Ukrainian national MPs: Vadim Nesterenk to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the violation of the rights of farmers and landowners on the side of the Commission for the handling of complaints in the area of State registration at the Ministry of Justice. Victor Razwadowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir Observatories for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of a slot for 15 working students with appropriate equipment and software and ten fixed computers for the compilation of an additional computer class at the University of Rome’s Gymnasium of the Žitomir Region. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir Observatories for the repair of the road from the village of Godich of Romanov district to the village of Visoja Pic Zitomir district, Žitomir district. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine, on the inadmissibility of selective increases in the size of official salaries exclusively for the Attorney-General of Ukraine and his deputies, including the undergraduate of all other prosecutors and investigators. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to counteract the construction of buildings without permission to carry out construction work and with violations of the requirements of legislation in the area of urban activities in the territory of Odessa. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the proper financial provision of primary health care to the inhabitants of Harkov. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the re-election of the Public Council at the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionov and Frez) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the response to the obstacles to the holding of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by Ukraine's individual deputies on 05-06 October 2017. Vladislav Doub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the accumulation of negative trends in adoption and the development of family forms of education for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the accumulation of negative trends in adoption and the development of family forms of education for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Victoria Vojtsicka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, on the implementation of the professional legislation adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent provision of medical care for children with inborn, chronic or orthopaedic diseases. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Observatories for a fair competitive selection of Radehovsky, Brodivsky, Bousky and Kamyanka-Buzki districts of the Lviv region to the Capital Construction Programme for Sociocultural and Housing-Communication Objects, at the expense of the state budget, local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual areas for 2018. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv government. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Observatories for the involvement of those responsible for improperly carrying out technical resuscitation of the I-II boiler in the village of Bishev Radehov district of Lviv, which led to an emergency during the 16-17 years heating season. Eugene Daeda to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the KADORR Group building company. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the transfer of military town number 29 in the city of Nnipropetrovsk. Jury Boyka to the Head of the Board, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprosecutor for the increase of the pressure of power on business and the involvement of law enforcement authorities in this process. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget accounting in the State Budget of Ukraine for 18 years for the construction of a platoon to the Cheremushka Microregion in the city of Lebedin Sum district. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the 2018 budget of Ukraine for the construction of the Artesian well in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. Romana Macola to the Minister of Social Policy on the implementation of the constitutional right to social protection of the disabled of the first group of Hanna Corn and the provision of a wheelchair. Romana Macola to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the conduct of the verification and use of measures of a representative nature. Groups of National Deputies (Dubinina, Didić, others) to the Head of the Board, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General for the requirement of immediate investigation into the killing of the head of the Cerkas District Organization of the Ukrainian Union of Patriots "Ukrap" Mikhal Binusov and the burning of the head of the UKROP faction in the Žitomir Oblast of Natalia Kokotko and the use of appropriate response measures. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency for the consideration of proposals from the Scientific Research Institute of Forestry and the agrolissomelioration of the name of the Highland on the preservation of state ownership of forests as a national acquisition of Ukraine. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the inclusion of part of the excise tax produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine into the local budgets. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister for the payment of the work of unannounced employees of the State Service of Ukraine from emergencies. Vladislav Sevrukov to the Director of the Department of Health of Kiev City Administration for the purchase of immunoglobulin drugs for replacement therapy to children's and adults with primary immunodeficiency due to the city's health care program 2017-2019. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, head of the Zitomir district government for the settlement of the housing issue and for the provision of comprehensive assistance to the fire-stricken pensioner. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir Observatories for immediate assistance in conducting examinations, providing medicine, and treating a sick child. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the Lviv Oblast, head of the Road Service in Lviv region for the repair of the Upper Blue Road – East in the Skoliv region of Lviv. Andrija Lopushanski to the minister of agrarian politics regarding the situation in the Old Samber region of Lviv region in connection with the outbreak of the ADS virus. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the head of the Odessa government, Odessa City Head on the use of response measures to use the falsified map of Georgia during the round table "Transcordon Cooperation: Problems and Their Ways". John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the situation that resulted from the wrecked roads of the Bereg region of Zakarpat. John Baloga to the Prime Minister for the reconstruction of the Zacarpathian area's "Lujanka" checkpoint. Victor Ostachuk to the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve the issue of the debt of local self-government bodies to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv Authority on the need to allocate funds to finance the repair work of the thermal power plant in the village of Rozkošna Stavishtenski district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister on the settlement of the issue of compensation to carriers for the transfer of credit categories of citizens to Biloczerkowski, Volodarski, Skirski, Stavistenski, Tarostian and Tetijev regions of the Kyiv region. Olesia Long to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development of Ukraine, on the definition of more well-founded standards for heating costs. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the return of contributions to the USSR Savings. Sergey Lewochkin to the Prime Minister for proposals of the Opposition Block for the 18th year budget. Sergia Soboljeva to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology, the Attorney-General on the urgent destruction of the environmental disaster caused by the liquefying of the air between the Azova Sea and the Milky Leen, and on the criminal responsibility of officials of the Zaporozhye District Government, whose actions resulted in the ecocid (mass sea of fish) and the spending of budgetary resources on a particularly large scale. Victoria Vojtsicka to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine to change the form of ownership of the NAC's main office, Naftogaz Ukraine. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Information Policy, the National Social Radio Company of Ukraine, the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine to review the decision on the liquidation of the Pat "NSTU" branch of the "Newgood-Several Regional Directorate "Severska" to ensure Ukraine's national interests in the information sphere. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the non-admission of illegal gambling activities in the city of Nosiwka Chernigiv district. Aunt Ostrikov to the Prime Minister on the use of urgent measures to get the roads in the Plains region to proper condition. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the settlement of the issue of the recalculation of pensions to civil servants appointed under the Ukrainian Act on State Service. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the need to develop and approve an affordable housing funding programme for ATO participants and displaced persons in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Building and Housing on the Implementation of State Housing Programmes. The hopes of Savchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting permission to develop a project with a plot of 25.2 hectares of land, which is used by DP "urban forest management". The hopes of Savchenko to Henprocuror of Ukraine for informing the conduct of pre-trial investigations of the abuse of the position of officials of the MOU and the provision of quality uniforms for the purposes of the U.S.S.S. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the acceleration of the capital repair of the territorial road T-16-08 "Bolgrad-Red Army-Arciz-Sarat" (Sarat-Arciz) and T-16-27 CAT "Serpneve"-Tarutine-Arciz-Tatarbunari" (on Arciz-Tarutine). Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister on the prediction in the Ukraine State Budget 2018 project of expenditure on budgetary programmes with the responsibility of the State Government of Ukraine. Vasil Janicki to the minister of justice about the payment of the debt for decisions that are subject to enforcement. Mr. Vasil Janicko to the head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Rhineland Region, the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Rineoblanergo", the head of the Vladimirsk Region of the Public Shareholders Association "Rineoblanergo" on the use of measures for proper lifting, connection and surrender in the operation of air transmission lines in the territory of the Vladimirsk village council of the Plain region. Irina Konstankevich to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development for the implementation of measures aimed at the development of the rural health system, according to the budget programme (code 2761620). Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the connection of 17 residential buildings in the village of Lubsev Region of Volin Region. Igor Guza to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the issue of extradition from the Republic of Slovenia suspected of killing Catherine Littina. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister on the issue of reducing the additional burden on local budgets are provided for by Bills Nos. 7000 and No. 7116. Jaroslava Dubnevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Revitalization and Investigation of Criminal Investigations into the Disappearing (Killing) of Taras Poznakov. Jaroslava Dubnevic to Henprocuror for the prosecution of law enforcement in the course of pretrial investigations into the disappearance (kills) of Taras Poznakov. Gregory Times to the Minister of Education and Science on the definition of the ratio of subjects to be taught in the national language and one of the languages of the European Union, including the Romanian language, with the establishment of a basic curriculum and possible prior consultations with teachers of Romanian schools and representatives of the Romanian National and Cultural Associations of the Montenegrin Region. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inadmissibility of the use of human immunoglobulin in an unregistered health facility in Ukraine received by the Ministry of Health. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on abuses and falsifications by the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine in reporting on the work done on the rehabilitation of the road C140616 at Dobrosin-Kunin section in the Jovkow district of Lviv. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the State Programme for the Prevention and Treatment of Cardiovascular and Vascular Diseases. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister on issues related to the granting of land to participants in an anti-terror operation. Mr Andria Galchenka and Mr Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister to expedite the resolution of the issue of the introduction of general health insurance. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on bringing the level of pension insurance to the militia in line with the cash provision of the police National Police, determined in accordance with Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 988 of 11 November 2015. Igor Lapin is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to clarify the environmental disaster in Lutsk and the surrounding areas. Igory Vasjunika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the certification of sanitary laboratories of enterprises and organizations for the right to carry out sanitary and hygiene research into the factors of the manufacturing environment and the work process for job testing under working conditions. Yuri Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of fair standards for natural gas consumption by the population in the absence of gas counters and centralized hot water supply. Igor Kotwiecki to the head of Kharkiv District State Administration for preparation for the heating season. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need to take effective measures to protect the legitimate rights and interests of former employees of the Mountain Multi-Professional High School in connection with the non-payment of arrears on salary for 2014 and the breach of the discharge period. People’s Deputies ( Dunaev and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent departure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the participation of representatives of the central executive authorities, the Luhansk Regional Military and Civil Administration, local self-government bodies, local council deputies, trade unions and employers' associations to restore the work of industrial enterprises in the Lugansk region, to support chemical, oil, coal, construction, energy and other industries and to prevent their total destruction. Andrea Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the treatment of patients abroad, particularly a child born in 2002, Radchenko Alftini. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Sumsian overcoat, the head of the Sumsian government on the issue of financing the construction of a fire alarm system, the announcement of fire and monitoring, and inspection of the state of fire safety of the Sumsky social sector. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Internal Affairs on personal control. Constantine Pavlova and Andrija Galchenka to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the negative consequences of the mass theft of telecommunications networks in the city of Krivi Rig. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, responsible for the duties of the Lutsk City Head on the critical financial situation of the Lutsk power utility company of the Lutsk City Council and the possibilities for further operation and development of the enterprise. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Director of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and Other Rehabilitation Measures, according to applications submitted during 2017. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, head of the Visnik district government of the Chernobyl region, to provide medical assistance to the oncochlyst resident of the town of Visnik of the Cherniew region. John Ribak to the head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, head of the Solomon District Court of Kiev, for judicial control over the administration of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in the Solomonic district of Kiev, for the decisions of the courts. Victor Krivenk to the U.S. Secretary of Defense on the death of a commander in charge of a firing squad in the course of a combat mission. Victor Krivenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to remove the Ukrainian Ministry of Infrastructure's violations of the principles of State regulatory policy. Oleg Osuhovsky to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenck, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Mikolai District Government, Head of the Mikolai Archdull for the provision of free medical treatment to the participant of the fighting activities of John Seminyuk. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for a vicious failure to execute judicial decisions. Tetjana Ostrikova to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for carrying out an audit of databases and information resources used by the DFS. Maxima Burbak to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing for the purpose of verifying the decision of the Montenegrin District Council to amend the outlook for the formation of the territories of the municipalities of the Chernivetsk region. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights and legitimate interests of investors of PAT "ACTABANK". Sergey Kaplina to the head of the Chernigow Authority on the need to hold an exit meeting on the prohibition of the movement of trucks on separate streets of Chernigow district. Sergey Kaplin to Minister of Interior, Director of the Department for Illustration of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the immediate release from the ranks of the National Police of persons suspected of crimes against Maidan. Alexander Kirsza until the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to provide insulin to patients with sugar diabetes in the city of Harkov. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information, on the provision of statistical information on the situation of the integration of Ukrainian State structures and households into the broadband Internet. Paul Kishkar to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing and Utilities of the Opishnian and Zynkow OTG Poltava region. Robert Gorvato to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the provision of population gas counters in the area of licensed natural gas distribution by natural gas operators. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister for the development of draft legal acts in the field of water of natural mineral and the order in which water is determined by natural mineral food. Alexia Lensky, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to resolve the issue of the care of a disabled child receiving Sevenach Kristanovna on a permanent basis of injections of a medical medicine, the Methodzekt in a doctor-designated regime and in an established medical facility, has taken appropriate measures of response. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Ecology for the use of emergency response measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of the citizens of the city of Opuchy to safety and environmental health, the elimination of environmental hazards associated with air pollution by T.O.T. "Tarkom Ecoservis", the verification of compliance with environmental legislation in the discharge of pollutants into the atmosphere. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister, Kiev City Head, on the need to take complex measures to improve the condition of Kyiv's elevator industry. Vladimir Parasuka to the Head of the Security Service for the Prohibition of Entry into the Territory of Ukraine by Russian Artist Mashnov Viacheslav. Vladimir Parasuka to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Policy, on ensuring adequate housing for ATO participants from displaced persons from temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine. John Sporish, head of the Ukrainian State Service for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the transfer to the property of the territorial community of pastures of the villages of Kurashovtsi, Drought of the Murovanokcurivotsk district of Vinnitsk. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision No. 116 of February 2, 2011. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister on the appropriateness of the occupied position of head of the Zaporozhye district government administration, Bril Konstantin Ivanovich. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the cost-effective treatment of cancer patients, including ATO fighters and veterans. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister on the need to reconstruct the Bilocerkian cancer doctor with the addition of the modern radiation therapy department. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, acting as Head of the Right District District in Kiev State Department, Director of the Municipal Enterprise Management Company, Managing Company for the Housing Fund of the Desnian District of Kiev, Director of the Department of Housing and Communal Infrastructure of the Kyiv People's Ministry for inclusion in Kiev's Social and Economic Development Programme for 2018, carried out a capital repair of the asphalt cover on Bratislava Street, 38, 40, 42 and 42a in the right-wing district of the capital. Andrija Illenka's executive duty to head the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders for the use of response measures to ensure that passengers are transported in the suburban connection to the Kiev railway node in a range that corresponds to the real passenger flow. Jury Levchenka to Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the National Police, Head of the Security Service, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Ukrainian Railways for the carriage of ticket-free passengers between Ukraine and Russia by PAT trains "Ukrzalznica". Michael Golka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the review of the address of the Ternopil City Public Organisation "Supporting the Youth of Ternopol". Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Finance for Social and Economic Affairs in the Education Sector of the Ternopil Rural Council. Anna Romanov to the minister of culture for the destruction of architectural and historical acquisitions. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič are appointed Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the Comprehensive Resolution of Hospice in Hmeljničina. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Finance for not allowing the transfer of funding from the local budgets to the NZI II levels of accreditation. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexander Gerega are under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the fair payment of salaries to health workers. Sergey Melnika to the director of the regional branch of South West Railway for the restoration of the diesel train schedule of the South West Railway Department of South West DN-3 No. 6351 by the Greek-Larga connection. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kiev City Office on the need to return to Lavrska's previous name, John Mazepa Street. Alexander Brigintz to Henprocuror of Ukraine on sabotage (abuse of procedural rights) In the case of the Assistant Director of the Volodymyr Farm of the Dnipropetrovsky Psycho-Neurological International, Marganite and Nicopolski Prosecutors of the Dnipropetrovsk Region, in the trial of criminal conduct. Sergija Rudika to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, to increase the amount of medical aid to prevent overdue debt from paying the salaries of health workers in the city of Smila Cherkas region. Sergey Rudika to Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science on the need to allocate additional funds from the State budget for the capital repair of the educational corps No. 4 (on O. Dashkevich Street, 24 in Cherkashi City) The Cherka National University of Bogdan Hmelnicky. Andrija Shinkovič and Alexandre Gerega until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to complete the list of medicines under the “Available medicines” programme. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Finance, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the issue of bone marrow transplantation. Ruslan Solvar to Secretary of Defense. to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of military personnel released for food rations and goods or for compensation in place of them. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the inspection of the entertainment facilities of the Righteous District of Kiev for permissible sanitary noise standards. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the construction of a new subway branch towards the residential area of the Trieste. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, head of the Zitomir district government, to deal with the consequences of the disaster in the Berdichov region, Žitomir region, and Zhitomir region. Constantine Pavlova and Yuri Pavlenko to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of expenses for orphans and children deprived of parental care who are raised in foster families. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of higher education institutions I - II at the accreditation level. Groups of national deputies (Demczak, Janicko, others) to the Minister of Finance on social and economic development subsidies. Sergia Labazuk to Hmelnicke District Administration, Hmelnicke District Administration, Volocossky District Council of the Hmelnicke District, Volocos District Government of the Hmelnicke Region, Hmelnicke County for the preparation of proposals for reforms in Ukraine. Mikoli Veličkovica to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastral matters of providing a comprehensive and well - founded answer on the rightfulness of the transfer to private property of individual land. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister for the suppression of the rights of residents of the village of Mizinovka Zvenigrad district of the Cherkas region. Valentina Nichiporenka to the head of the General Directorate of Dergeokadastre in the Cherkas region for the provision of information for ATO participants. Alexander Dudenkova to the Cabinet of Ministers on the abolition of government price regulation of individual groups of goods and services. Alexander Dudenkova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to stop financing the socio-economic development programmes of the Kyiv region. Jury Solova to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG for the financing of the "Authentics Carpathian – Promoting the quality of life of people living in the Carpathian villages by stimulating the entrepreneurial activities of folk craftsmen". Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for funding from the National Budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of USA II-II levels with the construction of the corps for the 14th grade, boiler and administrative facilities in the village of the Black Stream of the overriding region of Johno-Frankiv region. Sergey Rybalka, pending the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the State Medical and Drug Control Service to verify the quality of medical devices from cardiovascular diseases and Type II diabetes, which are part of the "Affordable medicines" programme. The Group of Deputies (Biloz, Unguriana, others) to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, who is responsible for the head of the Holding Fund for preventing the destruction of the invaluable archive fund of the Central State Museum of Literature and Art of Ukraine from continuing the lease of the premises in which the archive fund is located and the efforts to relocate the archive museum, in breach of legislation, in an unapplicable room. Groups of National Deputies (Biloz, Unguryan, others) to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance, on the issue of providing archives with necessary facilities and modern equipment, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankow district for the hearing of an appeal. Jury Tymoshenko to Henprocuror of Ukraine for bringing officials responsible for the murder of a person to justice. Irina Souslowy to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for investigating the death of a minor named Matychuk Kim, who was involved in the improper performance of his professional duties by medical personnel. Irina Souslowa, head of the State Food Safety and Consumer Protection Service, is responsible for providing information on measures used to eliminate advertising containing signs of discrimination and protecting consumer rights. Igora Lucenka to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine to hold a meeting of the National Commission on the Red Book of Ukraine. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister on the urgency of a comprehensive solution to the financial recovery and non-destruction of Pat "Ukranafta". Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Odessa District Administration, Odessa City for an objective review of the re-examination of war veterans – a member of the war of Kostin Grigorija, who lives in the Kyiv district of Odessa, to provide assistance in the timely provision of a comprehensive clarification of legislation on the registration of housing and utility tariffs and gas for socially vulnerable types of population, and to verify the ownership of additional tariffs by OSBB at the residence of veterans on the streets of Academic Williams, building 63. Jurya Solovya to the Prime Minister in charge of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the mid - life repair of the local road of S090803 Jablounov - Kosmach and O090801 Rostoki - Barbinkov. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Odessa District Government, the Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive response to the appeal of the residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, a labor veteran, a child of war, a disabled group of the second Galina Ivacuk on the provision of material assistance for expenses associated with the vitality of carrying out ophthalmological operational interventions and the provision of comprehensive social assistance. Victoria Sumar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on an unfinished roadblock in the city center of Kiev. Valeria Babenko to Henprocuror for the illegal removal of property of the private enterprise Bhutan Plus. Vladimir Gusak is under the executive responsibility of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for providing information on the dynamics and repairs of the nominal and operational fleet of motorway locomotives. Tetjana Crnoval to Henprocuror for the multimillion-dollar losses resulting from the criminal inaction of relevant officials and officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and central executive authorities, the use of immediate measures to stop the crime of non-compliance with the requirements of article 37 of the Law on the Natural Gas Market and Cabinet Regulation No. 95 of 21.02.2017, which should provide additional revenues to the State budget in the amount of approximately 475 million dollars from the use of state property. Alexia Hotcharenko to the Odessa Court of Appeal, Head of the Police Department in the Odessa Region, Prosecutor of Odessa Region, Court of Appeal of Odessa Region, for the official answer to questions relating to the failure to allocate the TOV "BIIR Property" to the land at: Odessa, Primorsska Street, 3-B. Sergey Ljvocken to the Prime Minister for the deterioration of the standard of living of people as a result of a significant increase in prices and tariffs. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the obstacles caused by the activities of T.O.I.R. Property, founded by a foreign investor. Sergija Lechchenka to Henprocuror for failure to perform her duties TV "Isko" and SP TOV "Come-Trade" in front of investors of JC "South Quarter". Maxim Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Investigation of Criminal Conduct, on the fact that he was apprehended by the head of the Chernobyl Forest Administration. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency, on the situation in the woodworking and forestry sectors of Ukraine, on the way they are resolved and on the way forward for its development. Sergia Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Health, the State Service of Ukraine for the Safety of Food Products of the Hmelnick district government, the Hmelnick district government district administration, the Hmelnick farmland for the dismantling of the higher cellular link in the village of Oleshin Hmelnick. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister to ensure that railways are restored to the military area in the region of Nnipropetrov. Vladislav Dove to the President-in-Charge of Ukraine from the rights of the child to personally control the investigation into the murder of a child in Cherkaschi. Helen Sotnik to Henprocuror for investigating the transfer of land along the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border to private property. Vadim Yvchenk is the head of the public stock company Agrarian Foundation for the provision of information to public shareholders about forward purchases of grain in 2017. Jury Bublika to Henprocuror, director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, head of the Central Electoral Commission on the presence of corruption in the activities of the National Police in the Poltav region, in connection with the breach of procedural terms in criminal investigations and the blocking of such activities by the conduct of local elections in the Runjski Rural Council. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk and Vasil Janicki until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide treatment abroad. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the nuclear energy of Ukraine and the problems of the alien zone. Alexia Rybkin to the head of the Hmelnicka observatories on the situation with the decommissioning of the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Hmelna District State Administration in the context of strengthening the country's environmental security, the ratification of the Paris Climate Agreement and the strengthening of environmental protection measures. Oleg Musia to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, Minister of Internal Affairs, to ensure the organization of timely and proper processing and issuance of passports for Ukrainian citizens to go abroad. Vadim Sidorczuk to the Defence Minister for failing to allow negligence in the calculation and use of military assets in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and resolving the issue of the just reward of the 128th Mountain and Infantry Brigade for the destruction of the enemy military technology column and the capture of enemy tanks in January 2015 in the area of Debaltsze. Tetjana Crnoval to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the corruption of the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Stepan Nasalik, aimed at enriching the criminal group of Dmitr Firtas, which led to a decrease in the revenue of the National Budget and NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Aunty Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the supply of vaccines to Ukraine. Igora Lucenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the legality of the alienation of the Dynamo Training and Sports Base. Anatolia Kuzmenka to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the inclusion in the Plan of Major Action of the National Police for 2018 of the establishment of a police unit in the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the immediate provision of TOP "Mineral Mining Company" to the necessary railway depot. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads (Kremenac-Bila Church) for the use of urgent measures to repair the R-32 Regional Road (Kielometer 246-286), the road to the village of Zarudinci S-062019 (2,6 kilometers) and the road to the villages of Hajiyivka, Princes S-062014 (19 km) of Ružin district of Žitomir Region. Roman Semenha to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Department of Special Investigations of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, for confirmation or disprove of information regarding the conduct of the hearing of telecommunications operators’ subscribers. Roman Semenha to the director of the Kharkiv territorial office of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the verification of possible criminal offences by officials of the regional authorities of the State of Djorgheokadastr in the Kharkiv region. Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov district government on the extremely unsatisfactory state of the sewer system in the village of the city type Novomykolayevka of the Upper Provost district of Dnipropetrov. Jurya Berezi to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for not allowing the transfer of housing benefits to local budgets. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund on the discriminatory situation that has arisen with regard to the improper pensions of military and veterans, and the need to provide funds in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2018 for the promotion of pensions for military and veterans. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the attempt to raid the STA "Agrofirma "Orzicka". Anton Heraszczenka to the Pecher district office in Kiev, State Administration, for information and documentation. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the production activities of the PAT Odeski Przysznoj Przysznoj przystów and ensuring the viability of the city of South. Groups of National Deputies (Dubinina, Didić and others, only seven of our colleagues) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on strengthening the social protection of participants and veterans of the anti-terrorist operation, which worked in the territories of the temporarily occupied territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk regions in part of the establishment of state guarantees for out-of-office housing. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for inclusion in the plenary sessions for the next plenary week of the draft law on settling the situation that has resulted in the appointment of the first and additional elections in the united communities as one that needs priority consideration, taking into account the thematic issue identified therein. Dear colleagues, on this we have completed a record publication of the number of requests -- 286 requests. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. And right after the break, you and I are going to have the "Crazy" section. Thank you, Your Honor. 12:30 a.m., we're going with you for "Victory." And now I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room of all. Colleagues, please return to the session room. Dear colleagues, traditionally at this time, Friday we have the "Variance" section, which is loved by both our deputies and voters. That's why I'm asking you to go back to the session room now. And I hope everyone who wants to join the "Rizzne" series is already in the session room. I'm asking you to sign up for those national MPs, and I'm asking you to sign up for the national MPs who want to take part in the "Variance" section. Dear colleagues, please sign up. The recording is being done, please log in. What are you saying? There's a language in competition, you know. We're out of time, right? That's what we're going to hear today, the outspoken language in a competitive fight. Yeah, so, in the competitive record, in the "Rizzne" section, the Radical Party and the faction take the lead. And I'm giving you now, I'm giving you six minutes for Mr. Laishka's speech, which is given the word of his colleague, Mrs. Yuzkova and Mr. Chizmar. Please, Mr. Easy, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u62	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to draw attention to two very important problems. The first problem is milk prices. 12 million people live in rural areas. Most of these people live off the price of milk. There is no price for milk — no provision for a rural family. There is a normal price, so a rural family can feed their children. We've got kids sitting on the balcony, and I've met them. We're here from Smerkina, from Winniechka. A railway knot, but there are many villagers who want to have a normal price for milk, and they don't have it. And unfortunately, the authorities are doing nothing for Ukrainian peasants to restore the cattle to the cattle ’ head in order to restore the cow’s worship in the Ukrainian village. Because a cow is a nurse. The cow fed our peasants in hunger and could feed them today. In all the most civilized countries in Europe: Switzerland, Austria, France, Germany -- look where you can't look -- some cows. Little New Zealand, with 5 million people, 10 cows. And in Ukraine, 45 million people are under 2 million cows. Then the authorities tell us that we want to live much, we want to do something. In order to live much, a Ukrainian cow must be present in the Ukrainian village. Then we'll live a lot. What the Radical Party team proposes to make a cost-effective animal sector so that the price is on milk. The first and the key is to ban the use of palm oil in dairy products. Today, what don't you buy – the "ROSHEN" confetti, the dairy products – read the contents, there's no milk, there's palm oil. They brought cheap palm oil to Africa 5 or 25 times, fed it, and sold it to Ukrainians. Then people go to the hospital to treat stomach diseases because palm oil is harmful to health, and Ukrainian peasants cannot sell milk at the normal price. That's why we demand to ban palm oil from dairy products and from any products where it's used. So that instead of palm oil, there would be the real Ukrainian best, the best milk. And that means increasing the amount of milk implementation, and that means that the price of milk is going to be. Because only administrative measures, such as setting the minimum price for milk that we demand, that is not enough, do we need to increase the quantity. My colleague Halasyuk and I have also registered a bill for the introduction of an agrarian and raw material assembly for export from Ukraine. Last year 60 million tons of grains were collected, and 40 million tons of grains were exported abroad. You take the grain abroad instead of the finished product, pay the congregation and the income from that congregation to support the livestock industry in the village. In order for our rural children to see the cow at last, because they will soon see the cow at the museum next to the dinosaurs. And I want Ukrainian cows to be in every Ukrainian yard. And there has to be a state policy to support the animal sector. Because when the authorities want to tear the land apart today, give it to transnational corporations, they don't care about animal farming, because animals are a long process, and they need to invest money, and they want fast money: they sow, they collect technical crops, they drain the land, they take the grain abroad, and they bring it to us, to the country, and then they import the finished product for which we pay billions and billions of dollars instead of having Ukrainian products on the shelves of Ukrainian shops. And just to change this situation, so that the stores will have Ukrainian, not Chinese, Turkish, Polish products, we've registered this week's historic bill "Buy Ukrainian - Pay Ukrainians". What do we propose? To make products made from Ukrainian raw materials with their hands. With the best hands of the best Ukrainian laborers, this product has the advantage of bidding. A crossover example: In Kiev nearly 2 billion bracelets were won by a Polish firm. The Ukrainian Lviv firm lost 2 billion dollars more than they offered and lost. And 2 billion Ukrainian, bloodthirsty dollars will go to Poland instead of going and giving jobs to lion's builders. Even in Zaporozhye, trams have begun to operate. Instead of buying our trams, our productions, we bring out billions of dollars abroad, we buy imported products, and then we go, we take loans, because we have nothing to pay our wages and pensions. In order to pay wages and pensions, the government must return to the cow’s face in order to be able to pay wages and pensions, buying Ukrainians and paying Ukrainians. The Radical Party's policy is to restore national production, to restore peace in Ukraine, to ensure territorial integrity, to radically increase wages and to retire Ukrainians. That's not what Opoblok and Timoshenko vote for. Because they're circusmen, fighting for power. And we fight for the people, we fight for the great Ukraine. They need major shocks, and I need a large Ukraine and rich Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u63	Please give a statement from the People's Deputy of Teteruk. Dear Mr. Teteruk, may I have your word? Teteruk, then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u64	Dear lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u65	I'm sorry, something happened to my computer, it jumped completely. I now give my word to Teteruku and then to you, I apologize. We have a computer problem here. Please, Mr. Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u66	Errors may occur, we may correct them, or we may accept them as we are. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! Once again, I want to go back to the urgent problem facing our society, which is the safety of Ukrainian roads. It was in this Ukrainian Parliament that we adopted my bill on July 7, 2016, and increased my driving fines for alcohol and drug abuse. We usually do not see the immediate consequences of our bills. But in the year that passed, we see that the number of traffic accidents involving drivers who were either intoxicated or intoxicated decreased by almost 40 percent. These are thousands, thousands of Ukrainians who have not been driving drunk. And we're going to continue to study what needs to be changed, what needs to be improved in Ukrainian legislation to bring responsibility to the very category that continues to ignore established rules. But this process cannot be confined exclusively to the walls of our Ukrainian Parliament. He has to enter every family that has a car, every soul of a Ukrainian who drives a car or is a passenger, because this is our common problem. And I urge you not to be apathetic, to stop drivers who are trying to drive drunk, to keep their family from violating traffic rules — from driving too fast, from driving red lights. Use seatbelts, use chairs, and special chairs for children, transporting them in cars, and use rotaters to make it clear on the road for others. And we have all of us together, all of society, to reduce the terrible statistics that exist today in Ukraine, and to stop the thousands of crippled fates that result from the deliberate violation by drivers of traffic rules. We have to worry about this problem until we reduce it to a minor level and get out of the leaders of countries that have thousands of killed, thousands, tens of thousands of mutilated as a result of neglect of traffic rules. We cannot make the laws hard if it is compensated by the failure of every driver who violates the rules. Let's make our roads in Ukraine safe and make them stable in the implementation of traffic regulations. Glory to Ukraine! So be it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u67	Thank you for the timely presentation, dear colleague. Now, please, Mr. Mikola Luschniak. And I'm sorry we got mixed up with the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u68	Dear Ukrainian people, Madam Chairman, fellow national MPs, last week our government, the Ministry of Finance, held talks with the IMF, which ended in a fiasco. Fiasco is that when a country that supports an oligarchy that spends billions of dollars on individual enterprises, it has no right to involve funds from other institutions that are in the world. This is the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other banks. Dear colleagues, what happened this year. Two billion grants are received by two agro-industrial enterprises. And the rest of it, this is the sum of two billion, which means 700 enterprises get two billion. As the world can see, when companies located on I.P.O. sites are trading shares on the London Stock Exchanges, they're in the pocket of the budget today. Last year they created a myth that these are the pillars of the Ukrainian economy, the agro-industrial complex where everything is kept. And if the state doesn't support them, prices will go up. Both today and the consumer basket will grow to unheard - of sizes. What happened in 2017? The grant was received. But the consumer basket grew to be the most subsidized food in the world by 40 percent! Dear colleagues, what are we doing? We make up for those who have more. Today, no government program has paid off the interest rate that increases investment in an agri-industrial complex! The whole world today is terrified of the steps we take. And the Ministry of Finance instead of taking the side of the MPs and saying, we can't feed the oligarchy, they'll say that the associations that are in Ukraine said that if we don't support it, then we're going to have a collapse in the economy. Dear colleagues, let's make a simple comparison. Today, almost every district center has several flour companies. Please tell me, did the price of flour rise? Has raising the wages, raising the wages, energy, and other valid indicators stimulated the upheaval of suffering? No! No! Their production rose by only 10 percent. And poultry production is 40, 50 percent. I would now like to address the Antimonopoly Committee. Why should there be more than 60 percent of the market for chicken meat in one hand today? What is today, where is the Antimonopoly Committee, its steps toward a solution? And then we say, if we don't help, tomorrow, chicken meat will cost 200 dollars, and 250 dollars. So we're channeling the cost of our budget. Dear fellow national MPs, there's been a terrible mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u69	30 seconds, please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u70	A sad mistake has occurred because the national deputies have been mistreated, which reduces the granting of grants in one hand. Please, Parliament, the People's Deputies and the Ukrainian People, if the MPs are to listen to you, ask them not to vote in the budget, in an editorial that was adopted yesterday at 8 a.m. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u71	Thank you, my dear colleague, for you. And please, now, the national MP of Barna, to whom his colleague, Mr. Melnik, gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u72	Praise Jesus Christ! The one who does nothing at all is not mistaken. But in order to change the country for a better connection, reforms are needed. In order to implement reforms, appropriate legislation is needed. And in order for these laws to be adopted, we must vote for them. But there are also forces that see that these laws are meant to make reforms that are meant to protect, protect, develop, and raise the welfare of the people, create different populist slogans, provocative slogans, block the rostrums, do not vote themselves, come out of the hall, and then shout that the country is in trouble. Medical reform is adopted jointly. Court reform accepted. Pension reform is in place. Yes, there are many shortcomings that need to be further worked out, especially in pension reform. I'm told by my voters that whoever is 25 years of age, the liquidator, has been slightly raised, there are 100 or 200 bracelets, that their pension has become no more than 1,800 bracelets. It's going to work. But once again, the one who does nothing is not wrong. But it is in the common work that we come to the common denominator of Ukraine’s rise and prosperity. But the most effective fight against corruption is a clear position: decentralization, when powers from executive authorities should be transferred to places. That is, direct authorization, land management, property complexes, finance should be given to the communities themselves. And so those who scream, on the one hand, about the inefficient fight against corruption, and then go to the villages and say that people don't create communities and decentralization do, are honest cynics and evils. I also want to go to the communities, to the people, to take advantage of the opportunity to get state aid for the development of the infrastructure that communities provide when they create. There are a number of European and world programmes and projects for community development, communities and small towns. So organize your local self - government bodies, village heads, so that they do not stay away from these changes in the state, so that they can take the initiative to create their villages and fulfill their promises to the electorate rather than sit in positions to preserve their seats. And I'm going to the government once again, you're going to solve the issue of using properly the subsidy that communities have received for infrastructure development. If it is not possible to use it to build capital roads by the end of the year, it means to pass it on to the second year or to allow for an overpayment for purchasing mothers so as not to invest money in marshes or snow. And so do I. 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u73	30 seconds, Mr. Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u74	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u75	For everything we've been through this week, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u76	Thank you. And I also want to address the entire Ukrainian people. Don't listen to the cynics, the liars, the ones who have done nothing in their lives, who want to do nothing on the pyari and the pyars, the harmful pyars in terms of destabilizing the situation in Ukraine, lower our defenses, the authority of the state, they want to gain cheap authority, putting our independence at risk. We must unite to fight corruption as a local and national level, as it is, and together to rebuild the country together. Where it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u77	Thank you very much. Next. Now. The next speaker is Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u78	Since the secretariat has had problems with my address, I have to do it directly in the session room in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I'm reporting my exit from the MP's "will of the people" group. And thank you to the Radical Party for allowing my position to be heard. I'll give you your time back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u79	Thank you for your statement, Mr. Litwin. The word is now given to the national deputy Antonistak. Please, Mr. Antonichtak Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u80	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Andrew Antonishtak, political power of People's Control. I want to listen carefully to the national MPs, because this may apply to each of you. So more than a year has passed since the assassination of Cremenecchina, a member of the People's Council of the Kremenac region, the deputy of the Cremenacian City Council, the head of the People's Control faction, Vitaly Vashchenka. During this time, the perpetrators of the murder were caught, and a trial was conducted. In the course of the pretrial investigation, however, there were moments that were ignored by the investigation and, in time, by the prosecutor, by the state prosecutor. This could be said by the fact that, literally, 15-25 minutes before his beating, Vashchenko was on the phone with the then head of the Kremenacké UMW, RV UMS Galevich. The latter was not investigated in either the course of pretrial investigation or in court proceedings, although this might shed light on certain aspects of the crime. The case is also prolonged with the investigation of the buyer of the crime, without achieving any concrete results in a year. 25.07.2016, the head of the National Police Department in the Ternopil region of Alexander Boghol, at the press conference, claimed that the names of the buyers of the murder of Vitali Vaschenka knew and knew, but they had to be proved to be relevant. And then the police in the Ternopil area, knowing the names of the criminals, have been gathering evidence of their guilt for over a year, and the perpetrators at that time may be planning further attacks and murders. It appears from the above that the head of the National Police Directorate in the Ternopil region of Alexander Boghol does not have sufficient professional and managerial skills to organize a qualitative and effective trial of this resonance crime or perhaps he has no desire to organize any work related to this crime in connection with the gratitude of the individuals concerned with the ordered murder. On the basis of the above, please first ask for a service investigation into the inaction of the Head of the National Police in the Ternopil region of Alexander Boghol and to withdraw from the position occupied in connection with the delay in the investigation into criminal conduct by the buyers of the murder of Vitali Vaschenka. The other one. All of the addressees of this parliamentary appeal are to take personal control and ensure that a rapid, full and impartial investigation of criminal conduct is carried out. Third. Take the situation described in the reference to personal control. And I want to add another one. For two months, I've been trying to reach out to this poor police officer, the head of police in the Ternopil district never called the Ukrainian National Deputy, ignoring the same oral appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to the National Deputy John Sporish. Mr. John, may I have your word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u82	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I would like to point out that we have a year and a half before the presidential election, two years before the parliamentary elections, and we're already starting to lose ground. I am sure that each of you will become both the President and the Minister and the Prime Minister and so on. But, most importantly, let's not start with today's collapse, early and we should not, as Oleg Lazko said, cause a disorder in our country from the inside. And that's really fair. It's nice that today we have individual citizens who have been summoned by political parties, and there's nothing wrong here. We're not Russia, we're not Putin, we know it's wonderful that everyone here in the country can express their opinion. But it's very unpleasant, when we, again, want to remind ourselves, some group started to lash out, beat Barna, absolutely nothing. The man who passed Maidan, the man who passed both ATO and others. I know it's hard for Oleg to hear, but you know, we shouldn't go down there anymore, it's not in our power, as they say. But at the same time, it's pretty embarrassing when it's lying on our N.C.P.D. square, and all that, and we're tying it up, we're already bleeding, and we're still beating it with our feet. We don't have to prove it. I think the political parties should pay attention to that. There must be justice in this. Reforms go as they say, and Grandma Yaga does not. That's what we're doing. But at the same time, I wanted to point out, first of all, medical reform. This, it would seem, is not perfect, but a step forward in this we should do. And there's this step forward. Of course, all of us will think and do everything we can to ensure that doctors do not lose their jobs, especially rural medicine. And it's nice enough that there is a bill where due attention will be given to rural medicine. Because we know perfectly well that people in the village are suffering. Pension reform. You know how a major meets people, and it's really nice when they talk. When pensioners say that the salary has risen by one and a half times. But it is very unpleasant when small pensions are given to people in the village. We know perfectly well that there were the lowest wages in the village, people were working hard. And here we have to do everything we can to make sure that the village also has a minimum of one-and-a-half pensions. And this is also our question number one. I also wanted to pay special attention to the support of animals. Again, I want to support Oleg Lachka, because this animalry is question number one in the village today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u83	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u84	And we have heard from the Prime Minister today that zero credits will be issued on animal farming. But I would like those who build farms today to be those who. Those who buy cattle today and want to do it to provide milk to Ukraine, we should not just give interest-free loans, but we still have to do 20-30 percent to help these farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u85	Thank you for your timely presentation. And please, Mr. Keith, we invite you. You will be given the word of the national MP Barna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u86	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Andrew Keith, St., Jewish. You know, we're today. This week was very interesting to me because it was actually happening. It was happening that we had a unique thing going on in the country. It was that both the authorities and the President offered what the opposition offered. I'm surprised, but in fact, the bills and all the political struggle that concerned the MP's in touch, and the bill that we were looking at, they were actually identical, they were just different in a little bit of detail. And many for the common people are incomprehensible, and why this is happening, which is why. And the reason, my dear ones, is very simple: that we have come to a point where the authorities can't but offer nothing to the common people, and the so-called opposition doesn't know what to do with it and has no constructive position as to how to further develop the country. Tell me, has there been an incident that the Council has not allowed to remove from the MP? None. Did they put someone in jail? Nobody. Please tell me, does he have immunity as a member of parliament who is being beaten on the street? Is it protected by the State? No, it's not. Does he have immunity? Probably not. In Germany, a gun would probably be fired on anyone who raised his hand on a deputy, the first one to pull out a gun and shoot the person who raised his hand on the deputy. What is it? We have a conclusion from the Venice Commission that in a country like Ukraine, a corrupt country, Parliament must still have immunity. And tell me, isn't the only place for democracy and the real threshold and the basis for democracy is the Ukrainian Parliament? Or is it a branch of presidential authority, or is it another branch? Probably not. Because, as far as I can remember, while not yet in politics, it was Parliament that was the very democratic site that allowed me to leave the country in the very critical times and become once again a democratic country, not an authoritarian country. Tell me, does the removal of parliamentary immunity increase the role of parliament? Or is it a source of authoritarianism in our country? And tell me in the end, and in what countries is there no parliamentary immunity at all as such? And the answer is very simple: it's just Russia and Belarus. What, then, is the reason? And the reason is very simple, my friends: because people are taking away from the real reasons that have to be changed in this country, people are taking away from the fact that a few oligarchs continue to share the economy of Ukraine, people are taking away from us the monopolies created in every area of Ukraine, especially where money is flowing from the budget. And unfortunately, we don't have effective mechanisms so far worked to bring this to an end. People have stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u87	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u88	People have become hostages and payers of tariffs that are disproportionately high because of the monopoly in the country. People pay 50 percent more for the chicken because they are hostages of the country’s monopolies. Simple people pay monopolies and authorities for not paying. So let's go along with you and show that Parliament is the source of power and put an end to the monopoly in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u89	Thank you for your performance. Next, please, People's Deputy Wolf. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u90	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe last week has become the worst for Ukraine in recent years, since the beginning of Russia's armed aggression. The diplomatic failure in Strasbourg was in the background of President Dustenk’s official visit to Paris, which proved unsuccessful. At first, the Assembly elected its interim president, a pro - Russian delegate from Cyprus, who immediately announced her desire to make a deal with Moscow. Already after Poshenko's speech at the Assembly, a resolution was adopted by PARJE, which initiated a mechanism to lift sanctions from Russia and paved the way for the triumphant return of the Russian delegation to the Assembly. A further unfriendly resolution criticizing the language provisions of the new Ukrainian Education Law was adopted to Ukraine. All of this has been a manifestation of the progressive political degradation of the Council of Europe. This respected organization is increasingly moving away from basic values and principles and is plunged into corruption and intrigue by cynical politicians and entire nations. PARIS also has a growing number of people who are willing to give in to Russia’s financial blackmail and sell it indulgence. Forgiveness of Russian sins for Russian money will be the beginning of the end of the Council of Europe as a value - based organization. Similarly, all the accusations of Ukraine in a language resolution are based on manipulation and falsehood, nothing to do with legal analysis and the rule of law. At the same time, such political attacks on Ukraine in Europe were made possible primarily because of the extreme weakness of foreign policy. President Prashenko, with his position as Leopold’s cat, can not help but provoke our enemies to try to impose their own interests on Ukraine. Some of our partners make a strategic mistake, for we will eventually change that power, restore strength, and remember who tried to use Ukraine’s temporary weakness to gain advantage. An anti-Ukrainian team to cover up its diplomatic fiasco in Strasbourg, in particular the anti-Ukrainian position of BPT representative Mustafa Djemiliev, unfortunately, has engaged in low-level manipulation and dissemination in the media of lies about me as a representative of the RPL. Because of the failed diplomacy of Dusty, we have many problems in the world, particularly with all our neighbors. The efforts of power to make the Radical Party team guilty of its failures are translation from a sick person’s head to a healthy one. Strong politics in the world requires a strong president. After today's President, we're going to have a lot of problems and a lot of hard work to do to protect Ukraine's national interests. Unlike the Dusty team, Oleg Lachka's team is ready for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u91	The Dust Team wants the Light Team to get up early, on time, and then everything will be fine, including in Strasbourg, not only in Kiev. Not just in Kiev. We now invite you to the floor of a distinguished colleague of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u92	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u93	I now invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Mr. Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u94	Dear Ukrainians, fellow countrymen! Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. I am absolutely convinced that the historic mission of the Parliament of the Eighth Assembly is to provide conditions for the boom of the Ukrainian industry and for the launch of a full Ukrainian economy. Only this will enable all other reforms to be successfully implemented. Both pension, medical, and educational, and all the other reforms in the state, they need large-scale funding. So their prerequisite is to develop and start a full economy of their own. In order for our industry and economy to finally spread their wings, it is necessary, on the one hand, to destroy those artificial corruption administrative bureaucratic barriers that stand in the way. And on the other hand, unfortunately, what the authorities don't actually do is set up very powerful systemic incentives for the development of the Ukrainian industry. To invest in Ukraine, to create new production, to create new jobs, and to increase development taxes, not to raise foreign loans in the country. To do this, it takes not political declarations, but a real plan. This plan is designed by the Radical Party faction. It's an anti-crisis economic plan and it's an industrial reform package that includes priority legislative initiatives to achieve these goals. I'll name just a few of them. Oleg Lazko has already highlighted the historic bill "Buy Ukrainian - Pay Ukrainians". It's going to be a revolution that's going to create additional demand for the production of Ukrainian industrialists, producers worth over a hundred billion dollars. This is a huge additional market for a Ukrainian producer. Those who use Ukrainian raw materials, labor, Ukrainian energy should receive the price advantage of the tender. Ukrainians have to win tenders inside the country. Otherwise, who's going to buy our product abroad? The second strategic initiative is an export credit agency. Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman personally promised that the institution would soon be operational and that would be cheaper loans for Ukrainian producers and exporters. That's a real result. Third. Industrial parks. It's a mechanism for involving large-scale investment, in the real economy, in new production. And that means high wages, which means high pensions. This is an opportunity to win competition in other countries. The next strategic initiative. Free networking is Bill 6671, which has also not been adopted for 25 years, is now in the Council. Supported, by the way, by all factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's take the industrial reform package, start the economy completely!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u95	Thank you for your performance. People’s MP Borislav Bereza is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u96	On October 17, this year, the city of Kiev experienced a very good story. The Duke's Fighter, the Volunteer Ukrainian Corps, Pavel Dolinsky, the invited Udav, who passed the Sands, the Krasnogorka, the Saur-Mogil, the airport, was injured at the Donetsk Airport, but because he was a volunteer, not a member of the U.S.S.A., he had no status as a participant in the fighting. Moreover, neither the injury nor anything else could prove that he had really taken part. But the team of determined citizens went through all the stages and proved in court, proving that Mr. Paul Dolinsky was a fighter defending Ukraine. After that, he will go to the commission, where he will be able to obtain UBD status (a participant in combat) once and for all. But it is a disgrace when a Ukrainian volunteer goes to the courts to prove that he really fought for Ukraine. It's a disgrace! Because when Ukraine called, he did not go to court to get the right to defend Ukraine, he went to war. And now Ukraine, in that case, and we colleagues are doing nothing to protect his rights. Since 2014, there has been a bill on the committees that I have been passing along with Dmitr Jaroz, who gives all volunteers the right to participate in combat. But it's still not being considered. Probably not on time. I can understand anything but one: When Ukraine calls on its sons to protect it, it should also help them after they have protected it. When the volunteers returned from the war, we should be grateful to them and to those who failed to return, we should be grateful for their memory and help their families. I therefore believe that Parliament should consider in the near future a bill that will allow for the status of a participant in hostilities to all those volunteers who will be able to prove that they were able to prove that they were fighting and who were worthy of defending Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u97	Thank you for your performance. Please welcome Sergey Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u98	Good afternoon, Ukraine! This week, thousands of our fellow citizens gathered in front of Parliament, and in the first place, the people who came out with a call, not against it, but for it. For making those promises that went to the polls. The election law has to be annulled, and today we have to get rid of this criminal and selling majority system, which has become an entry ticket to the corruption parliament. The Law for an Anticorruption Court, which is finally to put NABU clients in prison. And undoing the intrusiveness that has already become, you know, such a constant campaigning campaign. But when we come to Parliament, corruptionists who are covered in a mandate forget their promises. During this week, citizens demanded that this Ukrainian policy begin to be cleansed so that the slogans could be put into practice. And we've only taken one small step in this direction and we've sent this to the Constitutional Court. And that would never have happened if people hadn't gone to the square. Only because this protest became possible did we finally begin to fulfill the promises with which we went to the elections. But not only do we have these requirements, but we have the same requirements that we used to have at all the meetings, with the voters, in the regions, and with the students. This is, for example, the President's impeachment Act, because the President can't be unpunished, we've already had the Constitution in place for 21 years, but there's still no procedure that allows the presidents to be held accountable. Why is it important in South Korea, why is it important in America or Brazil, and in Ukraine that other people live, other people who do not have the right to demand honest authority from the head of state? Of course not. Thus, besides these requirements, there is a requirement of the Law on impeachment and there are requirements that we eventually heard from entrepreneurs many times when we met them in the regions. One of them is to leave them alone. There's a constant complaint that the S.B.I.S. is in pursuit of business. It's a shame when in a warring country, the security forces are doing what they're blocking, think about it, not importing, but exporting honey. Ukrainian honey is a topic on which Ukrainian intelligence now sits. And last week, I had a reception, and I was meeting with representatives of the Hersonic Society, for example, which is blocked by Ukrainian intelligence. Besides, when I was in Odessa, I met a Danish entrepreneur who came and invested money in Ukraine, and now a raid is being carried away. The BIR company, Dutchman Thomas Sillessen, he twice with President Prashenko has been in violation of this issue, he has heard from the president of the guarantee that he will not be touched, but there has been a trial, and he is deprived of the property he bought in the secondary market in which he invests the money, and, finally, this is our face in front of the Western investors. So is the German company DVA Agro, which does what imports herbicide into Ukraine and imports fertilizer. She faced the fact that the Ukrainian Security Service was blocking their activities in the same way. It's not normal for a warlord to run after bear exporters and importers when I repeat myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u99	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u100	When a special service follows the exporters of honey and the importers of agricultural products. And finally, I want to sum it up by indignation at what I learned this week. When the budget committee is going to clear up the standard that finally has to start a fair distribution of state subsidies for agrarian enterprises. When one oligarch Kosyuk is once again going to collect billions of government grants, when they're going through the budget committee to extend the standard so that it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u101	Thank you. We all added 30 seconds, so that's equal. And, please, the next one is the National Deputy Artushenko of Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u102	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! To tell you the truth, we are living in a time of difficult challenges, difficult trials. And in fact, three and a half years while the Russian aggressor is balling, he's still trampling on Ukrainian soil, we've got some sort of a variety of shatoons, some eating messiahs, some sort of "kings of the ageing gas column." But despite all of this, over the last two months, I've been convinced of this and I say it openly and publicly, the Ukrainian Parliament has made a lot of effective systemic changes. Four fundamental reforms have been adopted: education, court, pension, and medical. It's not just bills, it's systemic reforms, which are the prescribed ways for years ahead, which are actually going to change that in all of these four areas, the lives of every Ukrainian for the better. This week, we actually adopted medical reform. The only big negative, perhaps, is that we did not accept it five years ago, ten years ago, or fifteen years ago, because the corrupt Soviet health care system, every year, was rotting, dying, and instead of changing the system’s decision, political regimes, such as the political authorities, failed to find the political will to carry out medical reform. A positive step. In fact, it's only the beginning, because we voted on two bills, and then I think we'll be able to do so, and I'm sure there are two more bills that we can adopt on this issue. But a basic document is made, namely, the question of how tax payers are distributed. If, in the last system, you can say that already, money was allocated to the bed-places, to the heating area, to the windows, and so on, we're fundamentally changing the whole area, and we're allowing money to go directly to the patient, that is, it's spent on medical services. This will change the approach, allow you to compete freely between doctors, managers of the facility, because now the doctor will be interested in getting patients to see him. And of course that's going to have a positive effect on the quality of the delivery of medical services, because that's how the patient gets in the head of the corner, that's the first. The other one. This will enable doctors to increase their salaries dramatically since 2018, I mean the primary chain, up to, on average, 15, 18 thousand. It is a guaranteed free package of reforms that has not yet been implemented, and with reform, the primary chain will become free. And the main thing, I think, is that completely saved benefits for ATO veterans, for those guys who are still protecting our independence today and fighting the Russian aggressor. And I think it's the task of each of us and this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u103	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u104	Provide worthy treatment, rehabilitation for every military officer. Thank you for the positive vote this week. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the next national MP, Lozov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u106	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "The village. The village in our Ukraine is like a scribe, a village. The green grove has grown. Gardens bloom, houses white, and rooms on the mountain. And the blue mountains behind the Dniprom. God himself caresses the village." In France, every cow farmer receives 2 euros a day. In Germany, despite the development of other sectors, agrarian development is a priority. In Switzerland, cows are given massages and pedicures on farms, and we soon have them. It's true, there's nothing funny about it. And soon, we have the authority to make the funeral of the last cow. Why is it that the Germans, the French, the Swiss, the Dutch, the Irish, the English, the Italians, the Spaniards are not ashamed to do the village, why do they see the prospect? And today we have this situation in the country where the village is out there, when the village is not fashionable when the village isn't doing it. A wise man told me many years ago that just as God provided oil to the Emiratam, so God gave the land to Ukraine. But oil today is, tomorrow it won't be, and the world is going to alternative sources of energy. And the earth is eternal. Already the world’s largest food crisis in human history, more than a billion people are undernourished. Who can save the world, without exaggeration, from the food crisis? Only Ukraine and its black lands. But we have to sell, and this is our clear, absolutely rigid position of the Radical Party, and all patriots have to support it, and we need to sell products, not raw materials, and we cannot allow Ukraine to become a raw colony of Europe, a banana republic. 175 members of the people signed under the draft amendments to the Constitution. The first author is our leader, Oleg Lazko, to whom we anticipate changes to article 41, taking into account the best European experience, to secure the Ukrainian farmer's priority right to be master of our Ukrainian land. A farmer, a peasant, a Ukrainian must be the host here, not a latifundist. On July 4, this year, in the village of Alexandrovka Lubensky, in Poltavska, Oleg Lasko initiated a cow grant of 5,000 dollars a year. There will be no cows; there will be no villages; there will be no villages; there will be no Ukraine. We must now make every effort of the state to protect the village, to develop the village, and to encourage young smart people to engage in farming. In neighbouring Poland, 200,000 farmers, and we have latifunds, we don't have the conditions that a farmer has to have from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u107	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u108	We're proposing a farm protection plan. First, implement regional crop planning and production in rural communities in order to avoid depreciating or deficient goods. Second, to create a pool of farmers into small cooperatives that produce the same quality products. Today the whole world is focused on this. Selling 5 tons of milk is easier than selling 10 liters. Third, the main thing is to lend loans from government banks with seasonal repayments for the purchase of Ukrainian tractors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in a week's work in the districts, you will be able to meet with the electorate in parallel, and you will make a pedicure to the cow to be Switzerland. That's why all the chances are in your hands, including bringing Ukrainian cows to Swiss level. Next talk from Mr. Mosiyczuk. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u110	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u111	It's about cows again. Sorry, I thought the microphone was off, because the third speech about cows, it's going to be hard to survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u112	Igor. Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I'm not going to talk about cows, I'm going to talk about goats. About drunk goats who kill people on Ukrainian roads more than they die on the eastern front of our national-liberal war, about those who systematically violate the traffic rules and are not punished for it. And not only did the terrible tragedy in Kharkiv cause me to do this, because, every day, when I go to work, when I go home, I encounter drunken hatreds -- otherwise you won't tell me -- behind a wheel that is ready to kill my fellow countrymen and even my children, because recently I've been seen by a whore, stopped by the police, and he's in the front seat, drunk absolutely, driving his two-year-old child. They asked me to be a witness in his detention. So, on September 4, this year, I and the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, along with our iron team, developed and registered Bill 7074 on radically increasing the responsibility for violating traffic rules and especially driving alcohol. What does this bill foretell? They were caught driving recklessly, and they were deprived of their rights for life. They caught a person who was deprived of his rights while driving — two years in prison. Drunkard driving has committed more than double the penalty defined by the criminal code. If he committed mass murder while in a state of drunken driving — life imprisonment. We need to root out radical methods of Soviet propaganda and Soviet thinking of attitudes towards alcohol. I've had a drink. Sit at home. I've had a drink. But when you're driving, you're a killer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u113	30 seconds, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u114	You're a murderer! And not just a murderer, but you deliberately take up arms. Drivers, driving licenses, in fact, give the right to acquire firearms and there is no big difference. So we have to stop the killers and call for Parliament's leadership, and our entire faction calls for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u115	Thank you. I think that on the next Conciliation Council, God forbid, she'll be torn down, discussed in order of the day, so that the issues are relevant and important for all Ukrainian citizens, of course. I now invite Mr. Golovk to the floor. Please, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u116	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 664th constituency, Ternopolish. I'd like your attention to read out the parliamentary request for a situation that occurred to me in the Kremenac district. This was addressed to me by the villagers of Komarovka, as well as to the Sapans and Ikva on account of an indignant situation, that the so-called enterprise that operates in that area, the agrarian enterprise of the Agro Express-Services, without their consent to violate the Ukrainian law, in violation of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, when they finished renting them food rations, they practically did without their consent for counterfeiting documents, continued the use of pies for another 7 and 10 years. Of course, this is indignant to people because they have a difficult relationship with this company, which is practically underpaid for food aid to peasants, and people are living on this land, people are holding cattle and pigs and chickens and using those pies just to ensure their livelihood. Instead of violating the terms and laws of Ukraine, they forged signatures. So I was approached by dozens of those people with such indignation. Moreover, unfortunately, in the Ternopil region of the village of Vishnivec there is, as it were, a public registrar who, by violating these laws, norms, without the consent of the people, leased those contracts, so-called, Mikolajchuk Oleg Mikolaiovich. That's why I'm calling on the law enforcement agencies, the head of the U.M.S.A. to Avakov, the Attorney General of Lucenk to take action, to draw attention to the fact that man and this company, which unfortunately is not registered in the Ternopil region, but in the Plain region, is violating the requirements of legislation, the attitude of their indignant. People are outraged by their brutal treatment of peasants. Therefore, I ask you to take all measures to bring criminal responsibility to those who have violated the law and forged signatures instead of those in the treaties. I would like to say that today the villagers are actually living in very difficult conditions. And it offends the fact that, unfortunately, the government of Groysman on June 7 repealed the regulation that regulates the price of products, the goods of first necessity. After that, about 40 percent of the prices for goods and products increased as a matter of priority. And it's flour, it's flour, it's eggs, it's milk, unfortunately, it just grows in the store. And people, peasants. Yes, natural milk from the powder, and people, peasants give up for a penny. And this bill, which I was the author of, has been asking for three years now that the state should regulate the purchase price of peasants for milk, is unfortunately being buried in Parliament today. The so - called coalition does not want to look at it, nor do they want to stand up for the peasants, for today this situation is catastrophic for the peasants. People have no other income than to work in the garden, working with a cow. That's why I'm calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u117	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u118	Nevertheless, I urge Parliament today to stand up for peasants and find ways out, to give a mandate, namely, to enact a law that is in Parliament, in order to oblige the government to review regularly the prices of products, commodities, and yet to make a decision that does not increase the goods of the first need. Because today peasants are impoverished, meager pensions, and prices are rising in space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u119	Thank you. And now the word is given to the people's deputy Rosenblatt. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u120	Good day, dear colleagues, good day, honourable chairman, Ukrainian people. Today, first of all, I would like to express not only my indignation but to explain the events that occurred yesterday on the plane during my desire to fly to the Federal Republic of Germany. Yesterday, despite my legal rights, despite any restrictions, without any grounds, without any documents, a court order, I was detained yesterday, robbed. My things are taken. And so, my constitutional rights were violated not only as a national deputy of Ukraine, but, above all, as a citizen of Ukraine. I'm reading in the media today some kind of inconvenient explanation from the NABA about, like, the possibility and everything else, but it's all bullshit and outright lies. No great jewels, as it says, had any money in my possession. There were common things for a person who just leaves for three days before his departure. I volunteered to inform NABA that I would not be in the country for three years. It was my right, it was not my duty. Because I have no responsibilities or limitations. So today, from this rostrum, first of all, I would like to address the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution and the guarantor of the exercise of human constitutional rights. Please note what is really happening today in the legal system of our Ukraine. I want to ask Attorney General Yuri Lucenk to do the same, legal evaluation of these consequences and the events that happened yesterday at Julien Airport. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make his conclusions and his expert assessment of how they deal with the national deputies, who today have both their rights and legal responsibilities. Dear colleagues, we have created the most influential body to fight corruption. We didn't make it for show shows. We made it to really be an open fight against corruption. What do we have today? Today we have loud statements, loud arrests, loud cases, but there is no evidence at all. I am also saying today from this rostrum that in a year and a half, while we are dealing with Maxime Polack, we have no evidence or evidence to support our crimes. On Friday, we received a modified suspicion that there was no more evidence of bribes, and by doing so, my guards, or helpers, would remove all charges, that is, there was no fact of receipt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u121	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u122	The question of my influence and the use of my special position. I want you to be given my meetings or my influential meetings with law enforcement officials, judges, prosecutors, geocaders, geonadr, any ministries where I have influenced or abused my parliamentary law. I say it's never been like this. So all charges are forging and discrediting me as a human, first of all, and as a Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u123	Next speaker, please, National Deputy Bondar. Bondar, national MP. Macola, I'm sorry, please. Palamarczuk handed it to Macoli, he told me it was from the coalition. Come out, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u124	Good day to you all. I have been approached repeatedly by people from the district with disabilities who make it difficult for them to live normally. They complain that they do not have the opportunity to get the things that help them to live properly. These are wheelchairs, scooters, and rehabilitation supplies. So I asked the Ministry of Social Policy accordingly. I got the answer -- not enough funding. You know, it's good that there's not enough funding. But that's wrong, because only 60 percent of the funding is now done. That's why people got wheelchairs, but not all of them, just in the Shepetov region today 22 people are waiting for these carts because it's wrong. So I'm talking to everyone who can do this, government, national MPs. In 2018, we're going to predict the possibility of doing everything we can to eliminate this shameful notion here as a turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u125	Thank you for your statement, dear colleague. The next, please, is the national MP Sobolev, to whom the word Semenach is addressed. Straight to the second. Not a second later, not a second later.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u126	I want to inform you that there have been searches in the families of five members of the parliamentary campaign, the veterans of this war for independence. Three of the Donbas battalion's fighters, one of the Idars and one of the volunteers who helped both battalions. While the boys are standing here demanding from the state decisions in its interests, not in the interests of enriching individual leaders, they're being brought home by the National Police, their women, their children and their parents, and they're saying there's a criminal case involving illegal weapons formations. The search results in the removal of the form with prizes and the registration of weapons. I want to tell everyone who's in this room, and everyone who's outside this hall, and everyone who gives these orders, that's the way to go. Yesterday we explained to the police chiefs and the specialty that when you send the boys to send balloons to the faces of the people who were burning Russian tanks under Ilowaysk and under Shirokini, you have a huge responsibility for what happens next. All veterans of war for independence are unarmed here. All without exception. But if they continue to be attacked, if they come to their children and their parents, the patient may break free. I want to tell the President of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs, today the people who are under Parliament are offering you a good decision. Nobody says "to Rostov." From the President of Ukraine today, we ask that he fulfill his presidential duty and bring the Anticorruption Court Act to Parliament. A law that will show all the society that started life in a new way, that really top-corruptioners are going to jail. We gave him a document yesterday with a bill drawn up and with our refusal to author it that he, as president, as recommended by the Venice Commission, did so. But if there's ignoring the demands, if there's any hope of being intimidated by reprisals or just delaying time to tire people, I warn you, we're going to go home to them, we're going to go to places where they're doing business against the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine. People won't back down. Today, the president, the minister of internal affairs, other heads of state, has a choice. I very much ask that they do it in the interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u127	Next, please make a statement, People's Deputy Linko. He's got six minutes. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u128	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] On October 19, the heating season began, and the Ukrainians were again fearfully awaiting payment for heat and gas. On October 9, I was given a public hearing to discuss the question of raising gas prices, which was initiated by the Kyrovograd Obelisk. So, despite the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, despite the demands of society and despite the fact that the Ukrainian population is unable to pay even today's tariffs, liars offer raising prices from 7,000 dollars per thousand cubes to 9.5,000 dollars per thousand cubes of gas, that's almost 30 percent of the price rise. In early October, the Cabin set the price rise by 5.6 percent, but without a preview of the heating season. Naftogaz, in turn, proposes a 19 percent rise in prices. Energy Minister and Finance Minister Daniluk and Nasalik reported that consultations with the IMF on a new form of gas are under way. In fact, there is today pressure from the International Monetary Fund on the government of Ukraine to raise the price of gas for the population. But this is unacceptable under current economic and financial conditions in Ukraine. During the last year, the debt of Ukrainians for utility tariffs and gas amounted to nearly 26 billion dollars. This is a 300 percent increase in debt. More than 60 percent of Ukrainian households now receive subsidies, with nearly 55 billion dollars budgeted for last year. So these 55 billion dollars from the budget will go to the hands of the oligarchs. The only way out of the whole situation that the Radical Party is offering, which we've adopted in the Supreme Council here, is the Law on the Gas Market, which requires the removal of the gas transport system from the hands of the oligarchus of Firthash, Boyka, Ljovcken, who are robbing the Ukrainian population because of the price of gas, through tariffs. And the government has been blocking this problem for the second year, blocking the implementation of the laws, the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u129	Colleagues, I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to speak to the deputy who's on the rostrum right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u130	Who doesn't care about the problem of the Ukrainians, please talk about it somewhere, and we're talking about the most important problems. Because the gas sphere today is the most corrupt sphere in Ukraine. The biggest corruption today is in energy and gas. That's the 55 billion that I've already talked about, that's going to come out of the grant, instead of passing it directly from the budget to the hands of the oligarchs, we're going to have to spend on raising wages and pensions to Ukrainians, on energy-generating. Because the kind of hole that the government is running today with its proposals, giving out subsidies to all, we will never lose our energy dependency, we will never increase the production of our own Ukrainian gas, and Ukrainians will have to pay huge space tariffs, hundreds and hundreds of billions of Ukrainian dollars are being washed out of Ukrainian pockets today, washed into the hands of oligarchs. That's why the Radical Party's proposal. We're asking the NCREKP to block any increase in gas price under the cover of gas prices because of its self-sustainment of a production cost, an increase in wages for employees of fraud. What may be the production costs of the frauds that sell Ukrainian fuel through a gas transport system that belongs to Ukrainians? They charge 30 to 40 percent of the production costs and they raise today, they want to raise the price of gas from November 1st to 30 percent. It's clean water and it's clean water for the Ukrainian population. The position of the Radical Party. To return the gas transport system to Ukraine, to reduce the price of gas to the one that can be paid to Ukraine, to stop sending them into debt. Because the collectors will come tomorrow for these debts, they will come to throw the Ukrainians out of their own homes, and they will simply live on the street. I was in Kirovograd district last week, in Pomocna, in a village where people are not able to pay, because they have nothing to pay for gas. They simply have to go on landings, chopping trees, bushes to make any kind of wood, because the price of wood is just as high. And people out there are just risking freezing in the winter. So the Ukrainian government's policy, the Ukrainian government's policy must be aimed at lowering the price of gas. The NCREPR needs to show what this gas is made of, what are the grounds for today’s tarnishings? And so that the Ukrainians may know what they are paying for, and to whom do these huge tariffs go. I hope there won't be any such promotions, because only through Kirovogradoblgas did we block this promotion at public hearings. All documents submitted today to the NCRECR, and the NCRECR should conclude. We will control this situation and demand from the NCREKP not just the freezing of this price but the lowering of the price to the price paid by the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, the next national MP, Melnichenko, then Areshonkov, Yemen, Bereza and Teteruk. And on that point, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u132	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. Vladimir Melnichenko, 123 constituency. I want to inform you about a difficult situation that has arisen in one of the towns of my native Stone. Repeatedly, I am approached by the inhabitants of the village of Stara Usice and the village of Gorayevka Kamyanec-Podil district of Hmeljna District to help resolve the issue of providing information on the state and status of the former Radhospa land and to stop. and to cease the illegal distribution of land of state property in the territory of the Starousic Village Council, beyond the populated areas, by the leadership of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Hmeljnice Region, and to assist in disposing and transferring the specified land to the property of the villagers. According to the complainants, the General Administration of the Dergeokadastr in the Hmielnicke District has granted nearly 300 permits for the development of land-use projects to land for the management of private agriculture in the designated land areas, which are leased to a citizen of Slivchenka, an unknown citizen. In doing so, the village council was not informed of the breakup of leases, resulting in the loss of a village budget of nearly 600,000 dollars. In addition, Ukraine’s Ministry of Agriculture and Food ordered the year 10.08.2017 C.E. Director of Stateradospo Starous. It should be noted that the issue of land dispossession of the Starousic State in the years of independence of Ukraine has been constantly raised by residents and the leadership of the Starousic Village Council, the leadership of the Kamyanec-Podil region and the District Council to various higher authorities of Ukraine. According to the answers, it was found that land degradation was not possible, since the Starouszic State is not included in the list of farms that are subject to privatization. The leadership of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastre in the Hmelnicke District has led to social tension and forced residents of the Old Town Council to take action. Please review the appeal and, within the framework of the current legislation and the mandate given, take steps towards a positive solution to the issue raised, namely, to cancel illegal projects for the development of land for the removal of land for the management of private agriculture in the land areas of the "Starrous" Kamiyanec-Podilski district of the Hmielnicki district and to stop the illegal activities of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastr in the Hmielnicki district. This is a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u133	Dear colleagues from the Radical Party, I ask you to calm down your colleague who is preventing you from speaking. Sit down, please. I beg you, Mr. Andrey, please take your seats. We'll add a minute to Mr. Melnick. I am very sorry for the mess that has just prevented you from speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u134	This is very important for hundreds of people living on the territory. They may run out of land where their grandparents worked for hundreds of years, where they grew up and lived. I would like to point out that this is a huge problem not only in Hmelničina but not only in the Kamyanec-Podil region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, I've already announced the National Deputy of Aresonkov. Next up will be Loz. Thank you. Please respect each other in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u136	Aresonkov, 64th constituency, Zitomirshina. I am very grateful to Oleg Valeriyovich Lachka for having the opportunity to speak to me now, because we have come up with such technical inadequacy. And I now have the word on behalf of the Association of People's Deputies of Ukraine, whose membership today is more than 40. And I would like to express our concern and concern about the preparation for the adoption of the budget for the following year in part for the social rights and guarantees of citizens affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident. I would like to stress that in the last three years, in 2015, 2016, 2017, the same figure of 1.9 billion dollars has been added to the budget, which is less than half of the needs needed to implement citizens' programmes. Black people. Today we met with Prime Minister Groisman of Ukraine, who was present and Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko, and I now thank him for supporting the rights and interests of the Chernobyl people, we have had a serious discussion and there is an agreement today with the government that when they form the budget, they will listen to the demands of the Chernobyl and the social organizations, and the MPs, and there will be increased spending on the implementation of public programmes. We're asking about 2.5 billion, maybe some other options. But once again, today we have demands, the interests of the Chernobyls must be assured. This is also the diet of children, which is compensation for the loss of housing and property, the treatment of citizens, and many other issues. There's one more thing I want to point out. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, have recently been in serious trouble in the forests of our country. Experts estimate that more than 5 percent of pine forests are affected by disease caused by the loss of quality wood. Today, forest experts are talking about what prevents them from implementing the consequences of this scourge, hampering the current legal system, including sanitation, which prohibits the cutting up of such ill forests on time and so forth. I think these are the issues that we can regulate, but the government today should pay attention to that. Because tomorrow, instead of 5 percent, there will be a huge increase in the area, and in the pursuit of money today, woodchoppers will not be able to carry out their responsibilities for the destruction of such a diseased forest. So it is a serious disaster, and everyone needs to get involved in avoiding it. Thank you for your attention. Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u137	I'm asking you very much, we have Oleg Valeriyovich today, he's going to get hurt and it's going to be even more difficult for us. There have been so many misunderstandings with the list that has changed so many times, colleagues. That's why we now have a national MP, Moseschuk, to speak, then a national deputy, Yemeni, Bondar, Bereza, Teteruk. Thank you very much, and then we close the meeting. I'm going to continue for 10 minutes so everyone can speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u138	Igor Musiyczuk Radical Party of Oleg Lachka What's the first thing that's bothering people right now? What concerns the Ukrainians first? We're trying to tell you that Ukrainians will be fed up after the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court, the removal of immunity from national MPs, the change in the electoral system. Of course, all of this has to be done, it has to be done. But is that what there is, a great political reform? No, it's not. The great political and economic reform proposed by the team of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka is the rebirth of the Ukrainian industry in the rebirth of the Ukrainian village. In order to create new jobs for Ukrainians, giving Ukrainians a job worth their wages is worth social security. To bring people back to the Ukrainian village because the village is dying. Young people leave the village, cows become like dinosaurs or Egyptian cows, where the back of a lez. In my native Poltavšina, the villages in Ternopilska are collapsing, and we offer a way of rebuilding the Ukrainian village. Through the return of the Ukrainian cow to the Ukrainian village, the path to the prosperity of the village, to the flowering Ukraine, to the garden of the cherry near the house. How can this be done? To support the initiative of the Radical Party, our leader, Oleg Laska, to personally support each Ukrainian cow, to restore the economy, to restore the industry, which will fill the Ukrainian budget, which will really, really raise the social standards to the level that will completely satisfy the Ukrainians. Our job, the global task is to get Ukrainian employees back from Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and other countries, from Italy. Not the worst of the nights in Europe, but working in Ukrainian factories and factories where you get a decent salary. Here's our program. This is where we stand and stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u139	Please, this was the fourth talk about cows. I'm happy that the Radical Party's performance is over. Please, Mr. Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u140	I'm kidding. It's already to live to the end of "Rose," you know? I'm a living man.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we return from the cows to the goats. Sadly, we all witnessed the terrible tragedy of the day in Kharkiv: A young girl in her 20 ’ s killed six people during the night race for Kharkiv. Six people, several families gone out of their lives forever. And the question is not just in the drunkards, and here I am completely connected with the demands of the Radical Party. This girl was sober, in fact, the history of her administrative violations shows that she committed more than one administrative offence last year, which could have resulted in such terrible consequences. And she insisted on committing an accident that would kill others sooner or later. And this loud incident today doesn't come out of the pictures of the TV channels. But let us not forget that every day people who have been killed by drunk, aggressive, sober killers on high - risk vehicles die — that is the legal name of the car. And we, as MPs, should not just observe what is happening in the state, but also act with our tongues, not just to slap, but to legislate, as we are bound by the function of a national MP. I support the demands of the Radical Party. And we passed a bill that coincided in part: A drunk driver should be deprived of the right to drive a car forever. But we have also expanded our bill to include not only drunk drivers, but also sober drivers who systematically refuse to comply with the traffic rules that regulate legislation: they have gone red once – for 10 years without the right to drive a vehicle, they have spent the second time -- they are denied the right to drive a vehicle forever. In order for it to be irresistible to race, in order to be consistent with the rules of the road, so that it is incomparable to drink 50 grams on the track, because these 50 grams are human lives, these 50 grams are the depraved human fates of those members of the family of minors, often left behind after someone has taken the wheel and drunk or soberly killed their parents, it is unacceptable and we have a deputy to fight it. So I'm proposing to join our bill and the Radical Party, and the one we've proposed with Borislav Brez, these two bills will allow us to stop the killings on Ukrainian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u142	Thank you. As chairman of today's session, I can only promise that at the next Conciliation I will raise the issue of the need for as soon as possible consideration in the sessional room of issues relating to strict liability for traffic violations and non-verification. For driving cars in an unscrupulous way. Please, National Deputy Bondar and then please, Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. The other day we were given some of the amendments that we made to the 2018 budget under the heading 7000 and in the coal sector, and I can see in part that some of the amendments were taken into account by the government and the budget committee, but this is, well, irrelevant. So I ask the budget committee and the government once again to take into account all the proposals made by the people's deputies regarding the coal sector, the fuel and energy committees that were proposals and to take them into account as much as possible. Because even though the government has chosen the direction of creating a national coal company, where the state administrations will be eliminated, and each mine will be a separate legal unit, all the same, in order for each of the state mines to go out of business, it has to be a transitional period where mines will be able to make purchases, upgrade mining equipment, a transitional period for the payment of wages to miners. A transitional period for purchasing individual protection and collective. There's got to be money on the construction of the tenth "Novoline" mine. There are going to be costs for restructuring and liquidation of businesses. So once again, I stress to the government, the budget committee, that the proposals made by the deputies from the Fuel and Energy Committee are included in the further development of this draft budget for the eighteenth year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, we have a closing statement from the People's Deputy Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u145	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I would like to thank my colleagues at the Radical Party for the opportunity to speak once again in the parliamentary rostrum. Because the question that I want to raise right now is very important for each of us. We're in the People's Front and most of the coalition that works in this room and adopts important bills for the country, clearly motivated by the fact that we have a five-year deadline to be able to rebuild our country completely into a European development vector. And all of the efforts that we're making here, we're concentrating on this very parliamentary session room, are incredibly annoying to the Russian Federation, which has declared war on us for our right to self-determination how to live on. And they're trying to do everything they can and can't do to ruin the work of the sessional chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament. To make the Ukrainian people despair, to do the right things and to strengthen the country, and to defend their national interests, they create a host of provocations. Not only do they use the corruption component of certain politicians, but they are disturbed by the disrespect of the Ukrainian people, the disrespect of the Ukrainian Parliament, and the blocking of their work. We all know, understand and successfully resist these challenges, because it is in this sessional room that we are adopting many important bills. And we, most of us, have come to this session hall from Midan, so we will have deep respect and understanding of the desire of the Ukrainian people for peaceful meetings. This is the constitutional right of the Ukrainian people, which we will respect and protect. But we will strongly condemn those provocations, the infamous total provocations of using peaceful meetings to beat the Ukrainian police, who passed the anti-terrorist operation zone and risked their lives, protecting our joint Ukraine with you. Beating the national MPs who go to work in this session hall, spitting in their faces, trying to turn them away from this path, go into the session room, and adopt bills that matter to the country. Beating and mutilating Ukrainians won't go to Russian aggressors or politicians who are trying to use any situation to destroy society. Bringing any kind of weapon into this session room, even smoke checkers, to block Parliament's work, will not work. We will be successful in resisting this. I want to say that all attempts at Saakashvili's tents, as we can see, to destroy the agreed work of Parliament will be doomed to failure. We will strongly oppose all attempts to make Ukraine's success insurmountable. And that's the main thing. Turning to the Ukrainian flag is not becoming a citizen of Ukraine, which protects national interests. Protecting the interests of individual politicians does not mean anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u146	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u147	And so I want to ask you, for the time being, stop piling up Ukrainian flags, carrying them on your bodies like any towel is not understood. Respect the Ukrainian flag, it's a symbol of our state. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Igor Shurma, who was expecting the end of Friday. Two minutes. And I said at 2:10 a.m., we're closing the meeting. Please, Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u149	Igor Šurma, who was waiting for this performance. You know, where there's a principle, not that it's social, it's political injustice. You've been on the double, you've been on for 30 seconds, and that guy from the Opposition Block is two minutes and you're out. I've got two minutes. I am addressing Ukrainian citizens, as always, on health issues. This is true of medical personnel and patients. Bill 6327, now called medical reform, was passed yesterday. I want to say that this bill has no bearing on medical reform. But one standard must be accepted. As long as the discussions are under way, we can have a very hard discussion, stand up for ourselves, there can be no image. But when you make a decision, you have to go over your own and your own political ambitions, and go for it, because it's the law. So once this bill is signed by the President of Ukraine, I think that in this situation we have one very useful thing, we have specific people who will be politically responsible for the fact that this bill has been voted on. But basically, we're going to have real performers today, and we're going to know who's responsible for its implementation. This bill needs extra force. I'll tell you what, I have experience working at the level of health care institutions at the level of the city, Harkova, it's not a simple and small city, and Kharkiv district for 8 years. And I'm giving myself an answer, what do I have to do to introduce Ukraine into the law in Ukraine? So let me tell you, since January 1, it's very unlikely that this bill will work. But this team of people, they insisted on it, they took responsibility. And after the President has signed the anticonstitutional law, because there is a violation of article 22, 49, 64 of the Constitution, they will be responsible for the state of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-20-m0.u150	Thank you, Mr. Igor, for your time. Dear colleagues who were waiting for the end of the sessional week in the session room, I thank you for this week, it was not simple, but really extremely effective, in terms of those important bills that became laws and, above all, it was a block of medical reform. Let me remind you that next week people's deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions, let me encourage you to work actively on committees, this is the key job of a deputy, and that's where the bill should be. Not in the areas, not in the tents, but in the committees, they're working on bills and they're going through the first and second readings. On the week from October 30 to November 3, national deputies work with voters. And that's also very important. I'm asking you all to work actively in the regions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, November 7. I hope we don't have any association on November 7th with the October, socialist revolutions. We have to build, not destroy. Therefore, I declare the morning plenary session of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
