ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues ready for registration? People's deputies are requested to register. Please register. [[16:05:41]] 344 deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, we have two more questions from the agrarian policy bloc, they have, both of these bills are in the first reading, and we're moving on to their consideration. The only thing I'm going to ask you to do is support their consideration of the reduced procedure. They are not complex, but we still have many important questions ahead. And so, colleagues, I'm asking you now to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. So we're moving on to the next draft of the law. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of agricultural insurance with State aid (to clarify certain terms and concepts). I hope you were able to get to know the bill. And I hope there won't be any objections in the hall that we'll consider in summary. So now we're going to move on to making decisions. Please come into the hall and take your seats, colleagues. We're about to go to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I very much ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and ask to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Insurance with State Support (to clarify certain terms and concepts) should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support. [[16:08:53]] For 106 106 votes, colleagues. Of course, we can go into full procedure. I'm asked to wait a minute. I'll wait a minute, and you please invite the deputies into the hall. Now if there are no votes, let's go in full procedure, of course. So, colleagues, I ask you once again to review this bill. As we've been given a fractional analysis, it's non-conflict. If we enter into an hourly discussion, we will not be able to get through the following important questions. The following questions concern both the assignment of out-of-office local elections and the block of issues of the fuel and energy complex. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it to the vote again, if there are no votes, we're going to go in full motion. I ask you to prepare for the vote, please come into the hall. And I'm re-proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Insurance with State Support (No. 4570) under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please. I'd like your support, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:12:01]] For 124 The decision is not made. Let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite the head of the State Fisheries Agency, Kovaliv Jarem Bogdanović, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Insurance with State Support is designed solely for the purpose of bringing terms and concepts to the Fisheries Act of Ukraine. This will enable agricultural fish producers to receive State support in the insurance of aquatic bioresources. The law changes terminology and conforms to the basic law, the Fisheries Act. Implementation will help regulate the legal field and enable it to create conditions for the continued financing and development of the state's fisheries complex. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u3	Thank you. Please have three minutes to ask the reporter. Please hold the recording. Thank you. No questions asked. And I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Buckumenka Alexandre Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u4	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Product Insurance with State Support (to clarify certain terms and concepts) at its meeting on 17 May 2016 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The bill proposed to you is strictly technical and removes the legal body of interpretation of individual legislative terms. The bill is proposed in the text of the Ukrainian Act "On the characteristics of agricultural insurance with State support" to replace the words "fish and other aquatic living resources" and the word "fish" in all contrasts to "water bioresources" which are in line with the Ukrainian Law on Fisheries, Industrial Fisheries and the Protection of Water Resources." The introduction of the relevant changes regulates legislative differences, the use of the mentioned concepts in the development and implementation of agricultural insurance schemes, and enables agricultural producers in the fisheries sector to obtain State support in the case of insurance for their produced products, namely water bioresources. There are no warnings about the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u5	Please stay in the rostrum, we have three minutes to ask the reporter. Please sign up for the question. Please, Paul Kishkar. He's taking it off. Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Borisovich, for the report. And now come out of the factions. Please record statements from factions. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want the Ukrainians to pay attention to the situation in the Parliamentary Hall. Dear colleagues, an absolute mess and irresponsibility. Irresponsibility to the electorate, irresponsibility to the people. Hall, where 450 deputies are supposed to be under the Constitution. How many deputies do we have today? Two hundred, tops. This is unnecessary evidence of the need for amendments to the Constitution and a reduction in the number of members of the Supreme Council to 200. If 450 deputies can't go to the hall, they can't work, then I have a question, and why do you bastards have to go here! And why should people pay you? And why do you have to receive space pensions? And why do you have to go to the mud clinics and have everything on the state account? Don't go to work! Our Head, Andrey Parpuy, said correctly that this House will do is irresponsible and there is no discipline. Even if you don't want to go to the election, because many of you have come here either to hide or to make money or both, people will take you out anyway. Because a warring country cannot tolerate such a mess. The one who is not in Parliament today is like a deserter from the front. You left the front! You left the Ukrainians' defense front! Instead of voting here to protect a peasant, to raise wages, to raise pensions, to support a national producer, to have a cow, a pig, and a goose, and to allow people to feed their children, you deserters leave the front, you abandon the Ukrainians, you betray Ukraine. I am addressing the leaders of the political forces represented in this Parliament. You're responsible for your deputies, as I'm responsible for mine. He betrayed Artemenko to our electorate and to our party -- we expelled him from the faction yesterday. Exclusion your deputies who do not attend meetings of the Council. Release them, take away the mandates! Bring in those who will work. Stop fooling the Ukrainians, you bastards!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u7	So there are no more records in the talk from the factions' heads. But, colleagues, you know, it's a difficult discussion, I want to support it in the way that if someone told us three years ago, and we often mention it, the events of three years ago. What the Ukrainian Parliament is going to be, for the first time in the history of Ukrainian independence, will be more than 300 deputies who support the pro-Ukrainian, pro-European trend, and that it will not be able to work because there is no discipline, nobody would believe it, and no one would have imagined it possible. I said, "It's just so mean when you're not in the workplace during the session!" It's a betrayal in front of those guys who are ahead! It's the same thing if they took the guns during the fighting and went and said we had more important things to do. I said, if this Parliament loses something, it's not a political crisis, it's a complete lack of responsibility and discipline. And then you're going to run around the county looking for the money for the election campaign, and you're going to stand in line on the lists on how to get seats. I emphasize once again if we don't break this trend, colleagues, if we don't break this approach. And this is not the responsibility of the Head. My mandate is very limited with respect to MPs. It is the responsibility of the heads of factions, the heads of committees, and the entire hall. I emphasize that we, colleagues, are discrediting this Parliament on our own every day. And I call, as I said, on more than one occasion to have factions and to have very serious discussions inside about how we work. You want to go to a temporary election -- make political statements, we'll go to a temporary election. We will choose those deputies who are capable and able to work fully in the hall. You want to work -- you need to work, you need to come to work, and you want to do what our fighters do on the front. Colleagues, it's not a simple word, it's a real problem that's in the hall today. The problem of all Parliament, of all of us. I'm asking you to record a speech by the National MPs. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u8	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. In fact, I'd like to say two words to the bill, because this is such a hot performance, so, yeah. I would like to point out that the content of the term 'agricultural producer' needs to be reconciled, according to which the latter refer, particularly to legal persons involved in the processing of water and other agricultural products, article 1 of the law with part of the first article 5 of this law, according to which the object of the agricultural insurance contract with State support is exclusively primary agricultural production without its secondary processing and traffic. So please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please take this into account, please, the need to reconcile legislation and to make appropriate corrections between the first and the second readings. I'll make them myself, but to support these revisions between the first and the second readings. But aside from the question of the bill itself, I wanted to make a statement, and I can't help but respond to some of the sensations that have sounded here. Well, first of all, of course, it's a shame when national deputies don't go to work. But objectively, objectively, if the truth is told to people, the Supreme Council has been working this way for the past two years, such antinational laws have adopted that, in my opinion, it is better for Ukrainian society if it does not adopt any laws at all and better when there are not enough deputies in this session room. Because the vast majority of these laws are such that they would not be accepted at all. So if the question is not that they don't go to work, the question is that the Supreme Council is not supposed to work in this way at all, it needs to be dissolved and allowed for the Ukrainian people to choose normal and worthy national MPs who, even if they know what they're voting for. This is the first time. And secondly, when I hear angry talk about how there are many walkers in one factions, well, right conversations, very right, angry conversations. But then it makes sense that such walkers should be excluded from such factions, well, it makes sense. Because all the time these same names are known, they're posted on the Web site of the Supreme Council, and they're constantly published and shown to society, some people are bad, they're really bad, but there's no conclusion. So these people are still members of the respective factions, they continue to get appropriate preferences, or they are members of our international foreign delegations, yes, they drive on behalf of Parliament abroad and everything in them is wonderful. So if these people are to be punished -- they need to be punished -- let's do it, the honourable representatives of the majority and not just the majority, the others who have been here in anger, let's get these people out of your factions. Then it will be an honest position, not just to say that they are guilty, guilty, but still are members of your own factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u9	Illenko Andriy Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u10	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The chairman said that there is extremely low discipline in Parliament, and this is probably the most obvious problem today that every citizen sees and resents. I think the Chairman's words here, unfortunately, are not enough, just like the calls in the middle of this room, you need some external stimulation, probably. And I think there's actually going to be a chance of this stimulation because tomorrow there's going to be a national dignity march, and the patriotic, nationalist forces are united: Freedom, the National Corps, the Right Sector, they're going to go to the Supreme Council at 10 o'clock in the morning with political requirements. Because on February 22, we did not make any political demonstrations on the April 22nd, these were days to mention our heroes, but on February 22, this was a symbolic day, because Janukovich fled that day, the first phase of the Dignity Revolution ended. But unfortunately, it's only the first phase, because the basic requirements of the Dignity Revolution are not met. So if this stimulus is going to be, and tomorrow, I think there's going to be tens of thousands of people on this stock, maybe it'll clear someone else's brains a little bit, and they might think about working for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. But for those of you who don't understand, it's probably a way to get out of here and give the road to those who can take responsibility for the country into their own hands, that's exactly what they're going to do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u11	Mushak Alexi Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I suggest you stop doing the word and get on with it. That's why we're voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches by the deputies have ended. I invite you before the closing statement of the Vice-President of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Mr. Bakumenko Alexandr Borisovich. Once again, a minute -- and we'll move on to making decisions. And I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies into the hall. So, Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich, please. Alexander Borisovich, will you speak the closing word or not? Buckumenko? Kowalov Jarem Bogdanovich, is there a need in the closing word? No, it's not. So we can go to the vote. Please take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making. Please ask everyone to take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Insurance with State Support (for the clarification of certain terms and concepts) (number 4570). The technical bill is all in agreement, all in agreement. And I ask you to vote for it, the committee asks for a basis, colleagues, on a basis. Please vote, please support 4,570 as a basis. Please vote. [[16:29:31]] For 207 I'll be back. Invite the deputies to the hall. Turn on the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 89, "National Front" – 50, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party – 14, "Fatherhood" – 10, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party of Rebirth"– 8. Guys, I'm gonna put you on the way back one day. Please invite the deputies to the hall and take your seats. Colleagues, may we vote? So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to voting and reviewing the draft Law 4570. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, please. [[4:30.45.]] For 214 Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich, give your proposal, turn on the microphone, how we're gonna be with that bill. Whether to reread or return to the committee, make your recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u14	I, Your Honor, this bill is purely technical, and it is consistent with everyone. I don't understand why he doesn't vote. There are no deputies in the hall, there are no deputies. You're very good at saying that. People don't work in their places. Maybe a little later, maybe they'll come along. This bill cannot be rejected. It's purely technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u15	My colleagues, I'd like to remind you that the bill's consideration ends with a decision. To make a decision, it takes 226 votes. Please invite the deputies. I'll wait another minute. I'll put them back. Once again, I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. I really see all the factions supporting it. I'll put it to the vote again. If there are no votes, I will have to reject the bill. Please, I'll take a break in a minute. Invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, can we vote? Please take up jobs. Each voice has meaning and weight. Prepare to vote. So, colleagues, I'm re-composing to go back to the draft Law 4570. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Product Insurance with State Support (for the clarification of certain terms and concepts) (No.4 570). Please vote, please support. 4570, return to voting. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:34:15]] For 237 Decision taken, colleagues. Now please don't split up. I'm putting the bill 4570 on the ground right now. Colleagues, just on the ground. Please vote, please support 4,570 as a basis. Please vote. [[16:34:44]] For 235 Decision taken. And the last bill on agrarian politics. This is a draft Act amending certain legislation to remove artificial restrictions on the right to privatization and land use (No. 3190). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[16:35:24]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Stashuk Vitali Filimonović. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, project No.3190 is proposed for your consideration: to amend some legislation to remove artificial restrictions on the right to privatization and land use. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control, a moratorium on land allocations was introduced in 2014 at locations where there were no approved zoning plans or detailed plans for the territory. The introduction of such an approach is quite justified because the lack of planning at the local level is due to the chaotic construction of cities and the violation of standards on the development of social and engineering infrastructure. At the same time, such lawmaking has some shortcomings. First, such a moratorium creates obstacles for the state or the territorial communities to implement infrastructure projects such as roads, bridges, electricity lines. And secondly, it's not a secret that making appropriate urban documentation requires a significant amount of budgetary funding. And hostages in this situation often become ordinary citizens. Today, there is a widespread situation, especially in rural areas, where there is no valid land document available, with property rights available for the building located on this site. In fact, the introduction of a moratorium made it impossible for such citizens to establish their right to land. As a result, citizens who do not have the capacity to fully manage the land that is in use are suffering, and the state does not receive the land tax. So we suggest making appropriate changes that will solve this problem. Similarly, changes offer standards that guarantee that the withdrawal of a moratorium does not apply to the arbitrary seizure of land, since it is solely for persons whose property rights to immovable property are registered under the law. And the same is true for the purpose of avoiding abuse in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u17	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u18	remains in the case where the area is within the green areas of the inner quarter or is assigned to the land category of the natural-indictment fund of the historical-cultural purpose. All committees, both professional and others involved, have supported it. I'd like to support everyone. It's an important social bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u19	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations, Mr. Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u20	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee at its meeting on 10 November 2015 reviewed the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to remove artificial restrictions on the exercise of the right to privatization (registration number 3190), submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Stasuk, Lunkchenk, Kulinić and others. In the view of the committee, the adoption of the bill will allow for the rationalization of land rights in real estate areas, will help to enhance the construction of infrastructure objects, ensure the rights of natural and legal persons to land for urban needs, ownership and use, and will provide a basis for increasing the income of local budgets, the material and financial base of local governments. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The committee decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u21	Thank you. Please sign up for two-in-a-row, two-in-a-row. Please. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u22	Please give the word to your colleague Musak Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, today Ukraine is more in need of strengthening ownership of the land than ever before, so this step and today's bill is not a big but an extremely right step in this direction. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u24	Thank you. Please, Chižmar Yuri Vasilovich. He gives the word to Oleg Valeriusz Lalashkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u25	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would now like to address our distinguished Ukrainian peasants. People who are good, my dear fellow thinkers, my brothers and sisters, the people who work with their labor, mossilistic hands every day, stand up at five o’clock in the morning to fight farming, to drown the house, to lead the children to school, there are some bastards who laugh at you. They laugh when we mention the cow, the nurse of the Ukrainian family, and they laugh at you when we talk about the difficult conditions of life, social life, and the work in which you live today. The 55 unworthy names of the Ukrainian National Deputy, the characters, have called on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to declare unconstitutional our, my, dear peasants, moratorium on the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land. These mancures, the compadres, the periphery of the species and the tribe for which the Ukrainian land is just money, money and money, they want to sell it. They, my dear peasants, want to take away your land, take away your water, take away your field, take away your cow, your life in our best village. And now they're laughing, they're laughing at you, they're laughing at Ukrainian life, they're laughing at Ukrainian history, they're laughing at Ukrainian history, they're laughing at Ukrainian past, they're laughing at Ukrainian future. You're laughing at yourself. We're not giving it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u26	Please, 30 seconds. Oleg Valeriyovich, 30 seconds, please. I don't think there's anything to add here, Oleg Valeriyovich. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u27	Please hand it over to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! Self-help won't vote for this bill, we see serious corruption risks there. Sadly, this is an ancient idea for local kleptocrats to be able to continue to deploy land in cities without detailed planning. You and I in this Parliament have stopped this idea once and for all, which is very dangerous, which will lead to further corruption in local councils, the looting of communities, cities, and the barbaric blockade with all the problems that barbaric construction causes. Our request to all parliamentarians: not to vote in favour of this law, focus on monitoring the implementation of city planning legislation, well-organized development, development of every city in the interests of all people, wherever they live, from which they were not political. This bill legalizes corruption and cannot be approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u29	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u30	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. I would advise my colleagues when they speak so emotionally that they read these bills before, because this isn't about the things they're talking about at all. The point is that now, to this day, the law prohibits the privatization of land in the absence of urban documentation. Not all local budgets have that capacity and have the necessary resources to produce it. As a result, the hostages of this situation are ordinary citizens, mostly in rural areas. And we have this typical situation right now, I get a huge number of references, especially in rural areas, where ownership of the house is formed and the land is not. As a result, everyone suffers primarily because they cannot transform the land, transform it into an inheritance, and local budgets lose huge costs. The project solves this problem and allows land to be privatized in these cases in the absence of urban documentation. And I would like to point out that this isn't about buildings that aren't registered at all. That's true. does not apply to arbitrary oblivion. This is only about the land areas where the relevant documentation is available. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill, and it is extremely important and necessary for ordinary people who live mainly in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u31	Thank you. Are they still desirable? Yeah, yeah, okay. Yvchenko, then Levchenko. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u32	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I agree, of course, that in every law of those who want to circumvent certain laws, they will, of course, be corrupt and useful in their own interests. But I just want to read it so that we understand. "Except for cases of land-stretching of a building that is owned." What does that mean? This means that when you buy a house, you go to the local council, stand on your knees, and ask to be leased first. And then when you're given rent or use, you can't privatize, because the next item is "privatization by a citizen of the land that he's given to use." Believe me, in this law you have to write out how much land, if there's a box standing there, it can't be two or three hectares of land. And I agree with those people who live in Kiev, that could be abuse. For example, write this as a land for technical maintenance of this house, but not more than that. And the next. Renovation of land leases unchanged.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u33	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u34	Renovation of the lease. Colleagues, you and I know you've been renting land for five years. And then the local council says, and now we're going to give this land to another, third and fifth, or we're going to make a deal. So we're talking about that the renewal of the lease without changing the target assignment will happen automatically. I'm asking colleagues, there are some remarks here that we can work on the second reading using all the speeches, and make a good law, because people need it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u35	Come on, 10 seconds. Well, you should count. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u36	Today, people need to buy a house and secure a land plot that will be next to this house to serve this house. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u37	So, colleagues, please come into the hall. A vote will take place in a minute. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And the closing statement is Yuri Lewchenko, one minute. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u38	Levchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev, 1-man election district number 223, Shevchenkovsky district capital. I am now addressing all majors, especially all majors from cities, from district centers, from the capital. Under no circumstances do you vote for this bill! This bill allows for circumvention of the requirement for the adoption of detailed territorial plans and the decommissioning of land from municipal property to a non-DPT contractor, only on the grounds that there is a toilet in this area. This is a direct text written in this bill that the exception, apart from the cases of the location on the plot of the building, is a building owned by a natural, legal person. So the builder buys a ten - square house, and then he takes out a DPT without it to his building, two hectares or 20 hectares. How can we vote for that? It's a continuation of the building vachanal, a continuation of the protection of the building's interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. Please, everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. I would like to emphasize that for those who have spoken, the draft law is only a basis, just a basis. These amendments, which are in the hands of the national deputies, can be settled in preparation for the second reading. All the warnings, all the corrections that were made, we'll be able to work on the second reading. Committee proposal and committee conclusions: just on the basis. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of the legislation to remove artificial restrictions on the exercise of the right to privatization and land use (No. 3190) as a basis, colleagues, on the basis. Please take your seats and vote. Based on the base. Please vote. 3190 based. [[16:51:28]] For-170. Colleagues, I can put you back on the committee for work. Will this idea be supported? But according to the Rules, I have to set it up. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. The decision is now being made. I would like to make the following suggestion: First to rule with the committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. To prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Please vote. [[16:52:13]] For-183 And the final suggestion is to get the subject back on the right of the legislative initiative to work. Those who support this proposal, colleagues: To return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work, please vote. [[16:52:41.]] For-189 The decision is not made. Thus, Law 3190 is rejected. Colleagues, we're moving on to the next draft law of the day -- this is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine to regulate the issue of renaming local government administrations. The law is not long, it is not vast, it is not difficult, but it is very important. So I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support, please vote. Short-term procedure 5541. [[16:53:27]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u40	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, you are invited to take note of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the settlement of the issue of the renaming of local government administrations (number 5541). The bill proposes to establish that the designation of local government administrations is derived from the names of the respective administrative and territorial units, and a change in the name of the administrative and territorial unit is the basis for the renaming of the relevant local government administration. In addition, the draft Law proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be empowered to deal with issues such as the renaming of local government administrations in connection with the change of names of appropriate administrative units, as well as the adoption of decisions on the issues mentioned. The need to accept the above changes is determined by the following. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian) Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagation of Their Symbolism, as well as a number of regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted for its implementation in Ukraine, the names of a large number of administrative and territorial units have been changed. At the same time, the question of renaming local government administrations, because of the change in the name of the respective administrative and territorial units, is not regulated at the legislative level. So today, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the authorization of any state authority or official to address the issue of renaming of local state administrations. Thus, the adoption of the above-mentioned bill will ensure that local public administrations are renamed in the light of the change in the names of the respective administrative and territorial units in the order defined by the existing legislation. In view of the above, I would like to support this legislative initiative and adopt the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the renaming of local public administrations (room 5541) as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Please give the floor for the report to the head of the Committee on State Building of Mikoli Fedoruku. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u42	Madam Chairman, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! By order of the Supreme Council, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government reviewed at its meeting on February 8, 17, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Settlement of Local Government Administrations (Registration No. 5541) (since December 15, 16). The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", "On Local Government Administrations" to determine the reasons for renaming local government administrations and authorize the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make decisions on renaming. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill can be considered as a basis. The Ministry of Justice, on the basis of the draft bill, reported that there were no comments or suggestions. The Committee's general discussion concluded: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 1 and part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act of Ukraine amending certain laws on the settlement of the issue of the renaming of local government administrations, registration number 5541, dated 15 December 16, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Gerasimov, Ledovsky and Boyko, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mikola. Dear colleagues, please, let us sign up to discuss this bill from factions: two in favour, two in opposition. I'm asking you to record a discussion. Irina Fries, please, from Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u44	Please give the floor to my colleague Kudlaenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u45	Please, Mr. Kudlainko is given the word. Turn on Mr. Kudlainko's microphone. You already have a microphone running.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u46	It's not working. Oh, it's working. Thank you. Colleagues, this is really a technical but important bill. Now in the same Kropivnitsky, all administrations are called Korovograd, because there is no legal mechanism for renaming state administrations. And how can locals get used to new names when they are constantly forced to face old names. So the Petra Prashenko faction will support this bill in order to create a mechanism to rename government administrations according to the name of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u47	And thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u48	The draft is technical in nature. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u49	Thank you for your flexibility, Mr. Sergei. Please, Mr. Amazanov of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u50	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, perhaps this is the first draft of today, when all our national electorates talk about the bill. It's true, indeed, a technical bill that allows us to implement our adopted anti-communist bills and allow us to rename local government administrations. I don't think there should be any controversy here, because both science and expertise have supported and supported both the Ministry of Justice and all the other departments. So I think, come on, colleagues, let's support this bill and stop talking about it, not on the subject, but just about the bills and move on. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Please, Oksana Korczynska of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u52	Oksana Korchinska, Ukrainian national deputy. It's a technical bill. And we have in Lugansk, and the Donetsk region the mass of the inhabited sites called, it works. But since that population has not changed, we have not developed Ukrainian channels across the front line. Every day, yesterday, we had electricity on in Java. What did the people in Austria watch at night, in Upper October? What did they see in Marianne? They watched exclusively Russian channels and DNR channels. Since we're simply renaming cities, unfortunately, people's minds won't change if we completely lose the information war. We're losing the information war in the Donetsk and Lugansk region, but we've got the full force of enemy channels and Central Ukraine. In addition to renamings, it is vital that we win the information war. We're going to have to go with the National Labour Council right now, and in Donetsk, and in Lugansk, we need to set up repeaters so that Ukraine and Donetsk, the Lugansk region can see Ukrainian channels, not Russian channels, not terrorists. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, this concludes the discussion. We can move on to making a decision. I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to address the issue of renaming local government administrations (room 5541) as a basis and as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Everyone has supported this bill, please vote. We're voting on the basis of a total of 5,541. [[17:02:57]] For 235 Law accepted, colleagues. And now, colleagues, the moment of responsibility, we now have a number of orders to appoint out-of-order local elections. People are waiting for our decision, communities are waiting for our decision, and this procedure is specifically prescribed. A statement from the committee representative first, and then one after the other, we will vote on each decision. Which will cause the discussion, we'll put it aside and speak separately. So I'm asking everyone to mind, now there's going to be a large number of votes at one time and so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And we're moving on to the question of assigning out-of-order local elections. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Boyko Olenna Petrovna, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! I would like to inform you that the Committee on State Building, the regional policy of local self-government at its meeting on December 25, 2016, considered a total of 43 issues of individual local councils on the appointment of out-of-court elections, in particular one city, one village, 41 rural heads, in connection with the suspension of their term of office on the basis of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The reasons for the early termination of head restraints are: 34 cases, in connection with the death of 8 cases, in connection with the recruitment of legal force by an indictment against the head, 1 case (the Kamyan village head of the Storzyzinetsky region, the Cherniewsky region). As a result of the consideration of these concerns by the National Deputies of the Committee in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appropriate draft regulations with registration numbers were registered: 5618 - 5618-41 and 5619 Snigurov city head of the Snigurov region, Mikolaiiv region. In accordance with the rules of the Local Elections Act, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that individual rural, rural, urban, Sunday, March 26, 2017. However, since these projects were not considered in the session room in a timely manner, the committee at the February 8, 2017, reviewed the proposed date and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft regulations should be adopted on a basis, in general, by changing the date of the election to April 30, 2017. The committee also requests a postponement of the following draft regulations: the appointment of the successive elections of the village head of the Lubarsk Region of the Žitomir Region (5618-8), in connection with the request of the Melenite Rural Council, not to appoint an alternate election of the country’s head because of the ongoing process of unifying the territorial communities. Also on the appointment of the successive elections of the Obazni village head of the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd (5568) in connection with the appeal of the Kyrovograd government regarding the irrelevance of the appointment of out-of-order elections of the Obaznijski Rural Head because of the ongoing process of unifying the Terragrods. And on the appointment of the successive elections of the Gorenite Rural Head of Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kyiv district (5618-20) in connection with the information of National Deputy Michael Gabrieluk on the process of unification in this community. And the last. The appointment of the Budo-Orlovetsky Rural Head of the Cherkas region (5618-35) in connection with the recalling of its concern by the Budo-Orlovetsk Rural Council in connection with the ongoing process of uniting communities. The committee sent a letter to the appropriate district governments to find out about the situation of unification in these communities and would return to the matter after receiving the information. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to point out that we don't have an area like Kirovogradska anymore, there's a Kropivnitsky area, I understand, there's a decision. Noted in the Constitution. All right, then we'll vote as stated in the decree, colleagues. Then we will vote in such a way that we do not violate any legal norm during the vote. Colleagues, I'll call the ruling if there's no objection, I'll put it to the vote right away. There are not many of those decisions, but the local communities are waiting for a decision, and so I ask everyone to be disciplined, to take up jobs, and I will make decisions for each other to vote. Thus, the first Order 5618 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Pishtian village head of the district of Vinnitsk. In general, I ask you to vote. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. The local communities are waiting for our decision, we vote. Please be supportive. [[17:08:23]] For 237 It's been decided. 5618-1: Stepankovsky village head of the Vinnitsk region Please vote, please support me as a whole. Please be supportive. [[17:08:52]] For 231 It's been decided. Guys, can I just call the numbers? I can, can't I? All right, colleagues. 5618-2 as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:09:19]] For 235 Decision taken. 5818-3 as a whole. May I have a vote, please? [[17:09:41]] For 237 Decision taken. 5618-4 as a whole. Please support, we vote. [[17:10:04]] For 237 Decision taken. 5618-5 as a whole. Please support, we vote. [[17:10:25]] For 240 Decision taken. 5618-6 as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:10:48]] For 232 Decision taken. 5618-7 as a whole, please support. [[17:11:09]] For 234 Decision taken. 5618-8 asked me to remove the committee. We're filming it. Next, 5618-9 in general, please support. [[17:11:34]] For 239. Decision taken. 5618-10 as a whole, please support. [[17:11:55]] For 236 Decision taken. 5618-11 as a whole, please support. [[17:12:17]] For 239. Decision taken. 5618-12 in general, please support. Please vote. [[17:12:38]] For 241 Decision taken. 5618-13 as a whole, please support. [[17:13:00]] For 239. Decision taken. 5618-14 in general, please support. Please vote. [[17:13:21]] For 235 Decision taken. 5618-15 asked the committee to take it down. 5618-16 as a whole, please support. [[17:13:47]] For 243 Decision taken. 5618-17 as a whole, please support. [[17:14:09]] For 242 Decision taken. 5618-18 as a whole, please support. [[17:14:31]] For 239. Decision taken. 5618-19 as a whole please support. [[17:14:53]] For 242 Decision taken. 5618-20 is recorded at the committee's proposal. 5618-21 as a whole, please support. [[17:15:19]] For 240 Decision taken. The next 22, Mrs. Helena? 5618-22 as a whole. Please be supportive. [[17:15:43]] For 238. Decision taken. 5818-23 as a whole. Please be supportive. 5618-23 as a whole. [[17:16:06]] For 239. Decision taken. 5618-24 as a whole. Please vote. [[17:16:29]] For 240 Decision taken. 5618-25 as a whole. Please vote. [[17:16:53]] For 240 Decision taken. How many cards are there? A longer break between the ballots, right? It was simply that the system did not foresee such an active activity by the people’s deputies and could not imagine that Parliament could work so actively. Now she's psychologically adapting, and it's going to be easier. Colleagues, next up: 5618-26 as a whole. Please vote. Please. [[17:17:42]] For 243 Decision taken. 5618-27 as a whole. Please vote, please support me as a whole. [[17:18:09]] For 246 Decision taken. Or many are said to have spoken less than more, item 10 is left, colleagues. So 5618-28 as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[17:18:39]] For 239. Decision taken. 5618-30 as a whole. Please support me, please vote. [[17:19:04]] For 236 Decision taken. 5618-31 as a whole. Please support, we vote. [[17:19:26]] For 236 Decision taken. 5618-32 as a whole. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[17:19:48]] For 237 Decision taken. Colleagues, there are seven decrees left, seven or eight votes left in the eye. So 5618-33 as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[17:20:16]] For 238. Decision taken. 5618-34 as a whole. Can I have your back, please? [[17:20:38]] For 236 Decision taken. 5618-35 at the request of the committee rejects. 5618-36 as a whole. Please vote. [[17:21:06]] For 239. Decision taken. 5618-37 as a whole. Please support, we vote. [[17:21:29]] For 243 Decision taken. 5618-38 as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:21:53]] For 243 Decision taken. 5618-39 as a whole. Please vote 5618-39. Vote. [[17:22:17]] For 242 Decision taken. Colleagues, two decrees remain. So 5618-40, in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:22:43]] For 240 Decision taken. And the last, concluding 5618-41 in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:23:05]] For 246 Decision taken. And I'm also being stressed that 5618. 19. Another ruling, 5618-19. Ah, 5619. In general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:23:42]] For 246 Decision taken. Colleagues, we've done a great service for our communities. Thank you very much, Mrs. Olena. I have one more request, colleagues. Last week we were looking at one of the fundamental laws: the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. The bill had a huge number of amendments. We discussed it conscientiously, but during the discussion there were some technical details that we needed to correct by voting. With your permission, I'll give you one minute to speak to Oleni Skrum so that we can vote on the technical disagreements that arose during the discussion. This issue does not need to be included in the agenda, it does not need to be discussed, but I ask everyone to remain in place so that we can resolve this issue quickly. Please, Olena Skrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u56	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, you remember that on February 9, we voted on a very important and important Act in the first reading and in general, "The Service in Local Self-Government." When we started drafting this bill for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, we discovered, in accordance with article 130 of the Supreme Council Rules, some disagreements that we need to technically correct with you today. I'll explain which. First, colleagues. So, as a result of the non-admission of proposal 819, this is a big amendment, which was not supported, but is designed for confirmation, all of the actual mechanisms for the introduction of this law, an important and correct law, are not now in existence, because all of the Final Positions were not actually supported by the Supreme Council. Therefore, we need to vote on Amendment 819 necessarily, because paragraphs 2-17 are the mechanism for the implementation of the whole law. And the others. We voted with you one day, if you remember, the Law and the Service in the Local Government, and the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine regarding the Acquisition of Rural, Village, City Heads. And because these two laws were voted in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u57	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u58	Because these two laws were passed, well, almost at the same time on the same day there are also differences between the two laws. It is therefore necessary to correct and exclude the amendment to part one of article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, since it has already been incorporated into another law voted in the second reading and, in general, Law 4110. That's why we're making a proposal from the committee to support amendment 819 and exclude, except for the amendment to part one of article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, colleagues. I'll ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u59	Thank you, colleagues. I am. This question does not need to be discussed. Okay. Okay. Please include two, two, against, for discussion. There are those who would like to discuss it, please. Please, I'll give you my word. Moses gives the word to Oleg Lazko. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u60	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. With all due respect to a respectable colleague, but when I look at you, at a wonderful, young, intelligent one who comes out here and reports on public service laws, laws on local self-government, I have one question, and you've been working on the public service for at least one day? Even though you worked one day in local self - government? We, you, have pushed Parliament down here and we have not voted, but Parliament has voted in favour of the State Service Act. And what pornography did you accept? Today the heads of the district government should be elected to the competition. Let me give you an example. Novgorod-Sibersk district of my hometown of Chernigiv district, a border region with Russia. The head of the administration has been gone for several months. Instead of ensuring the region's viability, organizing defenses, organizing people's lives, the heads of administration are not there, because your law requires a competition. I asked President Dustenk, "Why did you sign this anti-constitutional law?" If I were the President of Ukraine, why should I give you the authority to appoint executive heads? You want elections, you go to elections, you pick MPs, you play picks, you make choices. Who has the right under the conditions of war, under the conditions of Russian aggression, to destroy the vertical authority? Because of your contests in the country of the brothel, in the country of anarchy, there is no order and no law in the country! There must be iron discipline! There must be a clear iron vertical and a clear responsibility to the citizens! And you're having a children's garden, you're playing the polls, and that's what the country loses. Decisions should be made immediately, as we did yesterday. You're all-museum with your Savechenko, and I've ruled out my seller Artemenko in one day. And you've been with your cookie for six months. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u61	Colleagues, I would like to point out that we're talking about the law, not the state service, but the service in the local self-government, so that there's a proper understanding of what we're talking about right now. I'll give you my word. Does Melniczuk pass it on to you? Melniczuk tells Pinzenic. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! In fact, it's not about technical corrections, as we've been told. It's all about content. Friends, the Constitution, human morality says: There can be no different laws from one and the other. What has been bred in 20 years of independent Ukraine by laws and has created dozens of different pension laws. And now, because of this rule, they're trying to reinstate a special pension law for local self-government. I don't want to get the impression that it's a special attitude towards local self-government. There can be no special pensions in the country. Retirement rules for all categories of citizens, including national deputies, judges, prosecutors, should be one, one law for all. This does not mean that the pension should be the same, it means that the pension rules for all should be the same, and if injustice has ever been allowed, we have to correct it and count pensions for all under the single pension law. So I ask you not to vote, Parliament has decided on this rule, and this rule has not been incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u63	Colleagues, I'll give you the final word. Now, please, Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I also think that the State Service Act is not ideal, but it's very important that when we discuss a bill or a bill or one or other, we speak solely in the essence of the law, all of this is completely incorrect statements that are sexist. The Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine represented 12 percent of the women, none of them went out to this rostrum and said that there was a fox, someone reptilian, someone crooked or hairy about a man, and so on behalf of the parliamentarians, I urge my colleague to forget here forever the question of age, sex, youth, because it goes very well, Mr. Lazko, unfortunately. Replica, please, but I'd like to apologize to a colleague of ours who's just been allowed sexist remarks. Please discuss legislation here, not age, sex and beauty, or the beauty of a parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u65	Colleagues, I want to support Mrs. Irina. Among the personal images that take place during the discussion of the bill, they do not honor the Ukrainian Parliament and this Hall. And so, colleagues, I would like to call for such statements to be limited during the discussion. Now, please, Oleg Lakota, one minute, then, Helen Schkrum, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u66	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I want to repeat what I said. Dear colleague, young, smart, beautiful, if it's sexism, if it's an insult, if I have to apologize for those words, then I don't understand what kind of world we live in. What was I supposed to tell her, an old witch or something? You're calling me to say that? I repeat: young, smart, beautiful. And I want such young, intelligent, beautiful people to be as much in the Ukrainian Parliament as possible and in the Ukrainian authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u67	Oleg Valeriyovich, distinguished colleagues! There is the position of women MPs, and this position is clear, I understand that similar statements are not allowed during the discussion. This, colleagues, only destroys and destroys the legislative process. Once again, I ask you to refrain from doing this. Now the closing word of Oleni Shkrum and then we move on to the vote. Colleagues, these were supposed to be technical corrections for one minute, we've already moved on to a long fundamental discussion. Please, Helen Schrum and let's move on to the decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u68	Colleagues, I'm going to allow myself to go back at all to the point of discussing the amendment and the law. And we are discussing the Law on Service in Local Self - Government for those who have yet to understand. Once again, colleagues, we have a big amendment on the four pages, amendment 819 and only two paragraphs of this amendment. This paragraph 14 and 15 refer to pensions mentioned by the distinguished Mr. Pinzenik. So I have a proposal to take all the technical details into account, and in order to synchronize this Service Act with the Public Service Act, we need to support the committee's proposal and support the entire 819 amendment. So I'll be the first to ask for confirmation of the entire amendment 819. If the room doesn't make that decision, then we have to. Then. Can I?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u69	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u70	If the room doesn't make that decision, then I'm going to ask you to make the whole 819 amendment, except for two 14 and 15 paragraphs, which apply exactly to pension insurance, and that'll be the right decision. And please support me, colleagues, this idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u71	My colleagues, the committee has informed me that this is a technical amendment. I'm going to put two motions for a vote, and I think the hall will be determined by this point. Colleagues, I think it's a good idea. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, here's our argument, I'm only asking Pinzenik one minute to give us an offer that might be acceptable to the hall. Please turn on Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, we've had a brief consultation here, and since the main problem is that there are special pension regimes in this section, we've agreed with the report that these items are being removed from the 819 vote. We're voting all the amendments except for the points that apply to special pension systems. And in this option, I urge my colleague to vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u73	So, colleagues, I want to stress once again very clearly that everyone understands that we are voting. We are voting for the elimination of disagreements in the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, 819 amendments, except for paragraphs 14 and 15. Right? 14th and 15th. [[Noise Nodes]] So, colleagues, this proposal is supported by everyone in the room, because we're making some adjustments, we've thrown out a whole chapter. And I am now voting on the proposal to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (number 2489) 819, except for paragraphs 14 and 15. Please vote, please support. Please support me. Please be supportive. [[17:38:35]] For 204 We have the potential to put it. I'll take a look at the factions. My colleagues, I'll put it back once, but this proposal, as I understand it, is compromising and acceptable to everyone. Please come into the hall. I'll put it back once. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Well, everyone actually supports it. I'm looking at the vote again. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Prepare to vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the question. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:39:40]] For 212 There's no voices, there's a lot of supplies. The offer is rejected. This, my colleagues, is simply an introduction to the bill. There's no votes, there's no procrastination. And, colleagues, I have just been approached by the head of the committee and asked that the next draft of the ruling, which is also about the appointment of the second-largest elections of the City Council of Lugansk Region to put the signal vote to see if there is a potential for its adoption, so that we don't waste time, half an hour, on its consideration. Will there be any objections, colleagues? So what I'm stressing right now is that there were a lot of suggestions to put it in the agenda, and I put it in the agenda, and now the authors are asking me to see if there's any support in the room. So that we don't waste half an hour, I'll put it in if there are no votes so we can go to the next bill. You got it, right? So I'm betting on a rating vote on the draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the Sierra d'Ivoire City Council of the Luhansk Region (5447) to see if the draft decree has any support in the hall. Whoever supports this draft decision, please vote. We vote, colleagues who support this draft decree. Please vote. [[17:41:19]] For 196 And I understand that we have no sense of spending half an hour looking at it, but the next question is no less important. And we're moving on to his consideration of the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft regulation amending the Order on changes in the administration of the Donetsk Region, amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Gorlovka and the Bahmut region of the Donetsk Region. Colleagues, 5139. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:42:12]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u74	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 5139 is of a technical nature. The Ukrainian Supreme Council plenary meeting, which took place on September 8, 16th, adopted the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Donetsk Region, amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Gorlovka and the Bahmut region of the Donetsk Region (No. 4931). But after the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was found that the text contained inconsistencies between its individual positions and its editorial inaccuracies. In particular, paragraph 1 of the decree’s text reflects a change in the Bahmut district’s borders by increasing its territory by 1 thousand 643.8 hectares. At the same time, the text of the decree does not indicate the initial original meaning of the total area of the area of the Bahmut district that is increasing. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved a total area of 149,434,71 hectares. At the same time, paragraph 2 of the decree contains a clear provision for Parliament to establish the limits of the Bahmut region, according to an appendix that reflects the cartographic basis of the decision. Accordingly, the total area of the area of the Bahmut district after its increase of 1,643.8 hectares, according to this decree, should be 188 thousand,943.8 hectares. I want to emphasize again. This is a decision of a technical nature, please assemble and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u75	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft decree and I would like to reiterate what the previous reporter, Arthur Gerasimov, said. This decision is technical and just corrects the disagreements that we have made in the first version. The committee therefore proposes that the decision be taken on the basis of the proposals made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u77	Colleagues, we haven't reached the fuel-energy complex. So just so we can look at it a little bit, I have a request, let's take it this way, it's a technical law. Colleagues — Are They Desirable to Discuss? None. Let's go to the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. It's a technical bill that's important for the organization of the territory in the Donetsk region. Let's support our colleagues. It's a technical bill. Please take your seats and vote, and support, colleagues. Please come into the hall. And I'm putting to the vote a bill amending the Order "On Changes in the Administrative and Territorial System of the Donetsk Region, Change and Set the Borders of the City of Gorlovka and the Bahmut district of the Donetsk Region", number 5139. On the proposal of the committee, I put the vote on the basis and generally, colleagues. Please support, please vote, colleagues. We are voting on the basis of 5139 as a whole. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[17:46:16]] For 207 Colleagues, are there warnings? Let's see the factions. Would anyone mind if we could? Peter Dustenka's Block, 94. Colleagues, let's concentrate. I don't think there's any political warnings here. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll be back in a minute. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council and ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, I'll wait a minute and make a return offer. I understand there's no political debate here, there's total agreement. Please, I see there's a group of deputies. Colleagues, may I put it? Come in, please, sit down. So, colleagues, can we vote? Now I'm going to put it on the way back. Please take up jobs. And my colleagues, I'm asking you responsibly, every decision we make is important to the Donetsk region. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to go back to the Project Review Order 5139. Please vote for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, for your return. Please be supportive. [[17:48:19]] For 219 Well, five votes, colleagues. Mr. Arthur, give us some advice on how to do this. 1 minute of Herasimov and ask the MPs to step into the hall. I'd like to invite a colleague to the hall and one minute to Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, by this determination, we are indeed correcting a purely technical error. I don't think anyone needs to be convinced. But in addition to the purely technical content, this decree has a meaningful function, because today we are adopting a bill concerning the Donetsk and Lugansk region, regarding the inhabitants of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. And the change between the districts isn't just a technical thing, it's a result of pension payments, payments, social benefits. So I have a great request from all the deputies to gather together, representatives of all factions to gather together and support this decision at this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u79	Colleagues, I'm going to put the return author on the table again. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and now I'm going to put this back on the vote, and I'm asking you, colleagues, to support it. And I'm voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Decree 5139 on changes in the administration of the Donetsk Region, the change and establishment of the borders of the city of Gorlovka and the Bahmut region of the Donetsk Region. Colleagues, may we vote? Ask a colleague in the corner of the hall. Mr. Arthur, ask your colleagues. Please vote for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support and please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:50:37]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm going to put it to the vote again. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, and we're moving on to making a decision. I'm voting on a draft regulation amending the Order "On Changes in the Territorial Administration of the Donetsk Region, Change and Set the Borders of the City of Gorlovka and the Bahmut region of the Donetsk Region" (No. 5139) at the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please support me, please vote 5,139 as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:51:27]] For 234 Decision taken. And, colleagues, we now have a block of fuel-energy. As my colleagues tell me, the first law in the draft Law on Disclosure of Information in Extractive Areas (4840). He's incontrovertible at all. Colleagues, if he's even incontrovertible, we have another 10 minutes. Let's look at it, let's make a decision so that at least one law can be passed from this block, colleagues. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. 4840: Draft Act on Disclosure of Information in Extractive Areas. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[17:52:24]] For-195 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna. And I ask everyone to stay in the workplace, and I remind you, by 6 p.m., we have a plenary day and I ask everyone to stay in the workplace. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I know that in fact each of you is in a hurry right now, I've prepared a short speech for everyone, but of course, I'm joking. Today, this bill that we're looking at, above all, reveals a curtain over the many secrets that are covered today in the energy sector, today we have a state of emergency in the energy sector. I assure you that if this bill were to take full effect, very much classified information would be published in this report today. A specific initiative of transparency in extractive industries today covers the coal sector, the gas, the oil sector, and the ore. We publish in this report information about which companies have been granted special permits, what activities are carried out in each area, and what agreements are actually made with the State, which taxes and other necessary payments are paid to the budgets of the different levels that the companies receive. But unfortunately, in this report, which is in 2014, 2015, not all companies have submitted their report, not all want to show their beneficiaries how much taxes they paid, and are they on equal terms with others? Today, the scope of this report has expanded significantly, and those who care about the coal blockade, I strongly recommend that you learn the latest information from the 2014 2015 mining, and it is clear that it will immediately become clear why the country is still dependent on the supply of the ATO zone? Dear colleagues, today we have a unique opportunity to connect with you and vote in support of the introduction of this standard in a form that will make it impossible for a voluntary company to disclose information, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u81	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u82	Mr. Head is absolutely right, I very much ask for the support of each of you today in order to end the corruption of the energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u83	Thank you. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Fuel and Energy Committee of the House of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u84	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues who have stayed in the hall and hopefully will work effectively, continue. Regrettably, I must say that the problem of corruption and the problem of energy in Ukraine today are historically deeply linked. And what it takes to solve this Gordiya knot so that there are no problems associated with energy corruption, and that there are no abuses that thousands and thousands of people are talking about today that are leading to what is blocking the East in order to stop businesses in order to stop the coal that is needed for the Ukraine’s energy sector. We need honest, fair, transparent information about extractive industries that have a direct bearing on energy. How much coal is produced, how much gas is extracted, who gets, how much taxes are paid, how much is paid, how much is paid, what are the licenses, who issues them? We need absolutely honest, transparent information and a bill that is being proposed just allows us to get a hundred percent of the information and minimize any corruption in the energy field, in energy generation and in the wider sphere. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the profiling committee has supported the bill, suggests that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as well as the information committees, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Prevention of Corruption, support the proposed bill and propose that it be voted on as a basis. Please support everyone, this is very important for transparency, for fighting corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-21-m1.u85	30 seconds? No, you don't. Colleagues, this bill was supported by all factions, are they willing to speak in its discussion? None. Then, colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the decision-making process, colleagues. I'm asking, yes, just on a basis, of course. This bill enables public information to be extracted into coal, so there can be no political debate here, but there can be only a common solution. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the decision. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. Can we move on to making a decision? I would like to stress that only a committee is on the ground. I think it's an offer that allows for all the adjustments and reconciliations to the second reading to be corrected. So I'm voting on the draft Act on Disclosure of Information in Extractive Sectors (No.4840) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support, each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:59:02]] For 217 Colleagues, I'll give you another minute. I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall and ask for a representative of the committee, and the author to help out, just as three deputies have left the hall. Invite them back to the hall, colleagues. It's very good to rally and demand disclosure, and it's probably very hard to be in your workplace. Please invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, please invite the deputies into the hall and do not go out during the hearing. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back. Please take up your jobs. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Law 4840 on Disclosure of Information in Extractive Areas. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support. Vote. Please vote. [[18:00:17]] For 228 We're back. Stay where you are. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Disclosure of Information in Extractive Areas (4840) as a basis, colleagues, as a basis. Please vote and please support. Please keep an eye on each voice, and we vote on the basis of 4840. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:00:52]] For 223 Well, three votes, come on. Please come to your workplaces, colleagues. Well, you just walk around the hall when you vote. Colleagues, let me put it up real quick. Leonid Jemetz. Colleagues, I'm going to put you back in a hurry, and then I'm going to put you to a vote. Let's finish the bill quickly. So I'm betting on a return vote of 4840. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote in favour of a return to 4840. Please vote. Please support me. [[18:01:38]] For 225 Guys, I'll take one last time. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. I'll bet one last time. And I'm proposing a return to 4840: a draft Act on Disclosure of Information in Extractive Areas. The author of the bill, if possible, participate in the vote. Please vote return to 4840. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:02:27]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Olya, what's the call? All right, I'll do it again. Colleagues, please take all the jobs. I'll ask the author again. Colleagues, please be in your seats. So I'm going to ask you once again to go back to consideration 4840. Please vote. Please support the return to 4840. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:03:28]] For 223 No votes. Draft Law 4840 has been rejected. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. I'd like everyone to be disciplined to arrive at the gym at 10 a.m.
