ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. [[10:03:41]] There are 307 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Roman Sergiyovich Romanyuk. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And before I go into the matter of order of the day, colleagues, I want to make a message and I want everyone to listen to me very carefully. Yesterday, unacceptable things took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I find it unacceptable to interfere with the work of the Conciliation Council and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, colleagues, I also find it unacceptable to attack the Ukrainian people's deputies, the workers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who left the House of Parliament yesterday. In the most difficult times, when we were in Maidan, we protected the Supreme Council as the highest representative body of the state, realizing that it was a playground where Parliament was always in crisis. And I want to remind you, there are a lot of guys from Midan's Self-Defense, as we were standing at the entrance to ensure the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so as not to allow an attack on the Ukrainian people's deputies. And what I'm saying is, right now, I'm just asking the organizers to make sure that there's free action and a way out of the Supreme Council and people's deputies and employees. I mean, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not just the walls, it's primarily the people's deputies. And I'd like my colleagues to have a common and solidarity position here. The Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot or should not be blocked. I'll tell you, I have a third-hour meeting with the President of Malta today. How is President Malta to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I demand that a roadblock be unlocked to unlock all entrances and exits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to point out, colleagues, under such conditions, it will be extremely difficult for us to gather enough deputies on Thursday to vote both for medical reform and for inviolability. We have our own agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But each national MP should know that he can come to his place of work and vote according to his heart and conviction. And we have to provide every national MP with that opportunity. Otherwise, we'll put our daily routine at risk. I believe very much and, more than that, I am convinced that everyone in this room understands the importance and responsibility and work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the issues that stand in order of the day. Both medical reform and the issue of the removal of inviolability. I am convinced that we all have enough responsibility to demonstrate to society today and to convince our and our supporters and our opponents that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should work fully, effectively and effectively. I hope that everyone in this room is in the same position with me, and I'm sure we'll once again demonstrate the ability of the Supreme Council to come out of any difficulties and any problems that confront us. Thank you. So, colleagues, right now under the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the national MPs to make proposals, statements and messages. I remind you, these are performances by national MPs, not by factions. And so for everyone who wants to speak, I ask you to prepare for the recording. And please record the performance. The People's Front, Gabrieluk gives the floor to Maxim Burbak. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction strongly condemns the provocations, the violence against law enforcement officers that took place yesterday in the government district. The protesters were given the opportunity to rally peacefully under the walls of Parliament. No one will start this peaceful meeting, nor will they be provoked. And yesterday, I welcome the fact that the head of the National Police spoke and said that he would maintain the rule of law and order of the peace action. But the People's Front will not allow this work to be destabilized by Parliament, we will not allow chaos to be sown in Ukraine during the East War. Millions of Ukrainians are awaiting medical reform, and they have the right to an updated branch and health care. The country expects the adoption of the Law on the Recognition of Armed Aggression by Russia and the occupation of Donbas. United territorial communities across Ukraine, educators, doctors, pensioners expect Parliament to adopt the 2018 budget in a timely manner, thereby providing them with an increased pension, financing an already accepted educational pension reform. The army needs weapons, and the military needs material and social security. The country expects stable work from the parliament. What do provokers want? What goals do they pursue? It's very banal, at all costs, to get to power, to bring parliament into an artificial political crisis, to collide with law enforcement, and to provoke fights. We're not going to let that happen, we're not going to let the provocations and gastrolers of various imaginations provoke the Nazis, we're going to let the parliamentarians and the employees of the Supreme Council. Democracy in Ukraine is not chaos, it's not self-inflicted. For three long years, the country has been opposed to military Russian aggression, and at that time, it is implementing important reforms that have not been undertaken for 25 years. They change what no one has done in years, and this has led the country’s economy into a chasm. For three years in this Parliament, Russian cans have been trying to damage the country's development in every way, inventing another lie about criminal power to destabilize and weaken the state. You don't have any constructives, you want disorder, the worse it gets for you, the better, the more time and people will judge everything. Yesterday we reached a consensus that the order of parliament on the fourth floor was a matter of voting for a bill to remove parliamentary immunity. We're starting to consider bills on open lists in the next election. All this Parliament will consider tomorrow in accordance with the procedure, the current legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. And I want to say again that in the next election, I emphasize, on the next one, time and people will judge who did and who did and who did the right thing and who did the wrong thing in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u3	Lavrick gives the floor to Roman Semensi. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, don't deceive people, people on the street don't demand a change of power, people demand all the power to fulfill their promises, in fact, that's why people chose us all here. Ukraine's state budget as the main economic and social development document for 2018. The first analysis of the income section seems to be at least unprofessional in terms of income formation. Which is only worth 22 billion dollars planned from privatization because all previous years the government had planned and offered 17 billion dollars, but the implementation was only a few hundred million dollars. At the same time, the government continues to build a police state, substantially increasing the expenditure on the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on Nazgardia, on the Henprocuratorium, which is what we see under the walls of Parliament. But what will be the result, dear colleagues? This is due to the total looting of local communities, cities, and villages. Think of the figures — 32 billion dollars — that's how much of the local budget's pockets are planning to pull out central authority by increasing the financing of the power device. Budget decentralization is one of the real, few reforms implemented by Parliament at the end of 2014. In fact, towns, towns, and towns have survived a little over the years, many cities have begun rebuilding roads that have not been built for years, kindergartens, schools, and so forth. What does the government offer us in the next budget? The payment of housing and utility benefits to the relevant categories of citizens should be translated into local budgets, compensation to carriers of individual categories of residence allowance, coverage of the population's debt for services of the LAG in previous years, pre-financing of educational and medical subsidies, payment of arrears to health workers and education workers, in fact on the community's side, is translated into health and education facilities. I'll give you some respectable colleagues, Ukrainians, citizens, so you can hear what's in the figures. According to previous estimates, the financial decentralization of Kharkiv will lose some one and a half billion dollars, Zaporozhye over a billion dollars, Dnipro billion and 300 million dollars, Lviv about 700 million dollars, and the White Church around 400 million dollars. Dear colleagues, this is the final robbery of the communities. I'll tell you more, the actual gradual refinancing, that is, the return of finance to the center is the usurpation of power. Self-help requires the government to stop robbing communities. We believe that the power of the community is the power of the state. Therefore, financial decentralization should be continued, and the responsibilities should be transferred to the places only taking into account the relevant tax base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Germany gives the floor to Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u6	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, today, as always, there will be a crowded hall and today the essence of all reformers is manifest. These reformers, where they're empty, they're for medical reform, that's the reform that decides the fate of the people in Ukraine. It doesn't decide the fate of many of us who have money on the payroll, it's going to "put medical workers on their knees" that this reform is going to shorten, it's going to "put medical facilities on their knees" that are going to have to be closed. And here today, look at the number of people in the room who are saving for medical reform. What is the key to this medical reform? All I ask is that everyone stop talking about reform, and this is about a bill that is cooled 80 percent of what the Ministry of Health has proposed. Even the name was changed, and it does not say anything that was mentioned in the first reading. Remember how they voted in favour of this law in the first reading, reform is two minutes in favour, two minutes against, plus falsification and second reading. What's left for the second reading, question number one? The creation of the National Health Service, which will allocate 120 billion dollars to one - person administration. Is that a lot or a little bit? This is nothing, and nothing, for the reason that this bill says that 5 percent of the gross domestic product is needed for implementation. And the same people are passing a bill to the budget, where there's 3.5 percent. There'll be no money. Is there a chance that the coalition and the power of this creation will spend money, distribute and distribute money to those who will come? It's a problem for all of us, you know why? You all rely on the wonderful first civilized Constitution of Philip Orlik, so you open the tenth part that he wrote 450 years ago, "the people suffer from harassment, oppression of the authorities, insatiability, for their enrichment they go into power." 450 years have passed, and the same bribes sit in power, and they blamed the past regime to make this regime ideal at all, because, as today goes, there has never been such an abuse. If we want changes to reform, it is necessary for the President to say either I am ensuring that this article is implemented with money, or I am amending the 49th article of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u7	Boyko, he's giving the speech to Papi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u8	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You can see that there are virtually no Ukrainian national MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today at a time when important bills such as the one currently under consideration are anti-national, anti-constitutional medical, so-called, reform of Ukraine. I want to draw the attention of our citizens of Ukraine to the previous so-called reform, which is a reform of a mandatory state pension insurance. What do we have in it now? We are now being approached by Ukrainian citizens, and last week at meetings with Ukrainian citizens, those pensioners who received instead of the promised 700 dollars, what the government promised, got 40, 50, 120 dollars. And now I would like to draw the attention of the government, to another very important problem -- this is a problem that we have in the country's national budget project, which has been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that we have the Ukrainian State Budget Act setting the minimum of living, including the minimum of living for disabled persons, as an indicator of the minimum pension for Ukrainian citizens. So now we have how much? One thousand 373 bracelets is a living minimum for disabled people. And we go to the Social Policy Ministry's website, which, by the 20th of every month, publishes the actual size of living minimum, which should be the minimum pension in Ukraine. Look, in August-months on the Social Policy Ministry website, the figure is 2 000 495 dollars. Honorable Government of Ukraine! You don't pay every month, and you're actually robbing Ukrainian pensioners for a thousand and 250 bucks. So the faction of the Opposition Block has now introduced two bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that apply if the actual size of the subsistence minimum, which the public ministry of social policy over the three preceding months, is 5 percent higher than that set in the budget, force the government to adjust this indicator within 20 days of that so that the citizens of Ukraine are not actually deceived. We have 12 million 300,000 Ukrainian pensioners today just because the government is anti-constitutional, criminally underestimating the living minimum we have every pensioner less than a thousand and 250 dollars a month. This situation needs to be settled. We also put in a bill that sets the actual size of the minimum of living that corresponds to the prices and the consumer basket.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u10	and make changes to the Ukrainian State Budget project. We're going to demand it from the government. The opposition bloc calls on the informed Ukrainian people's deputies if the government does not do so, to block the Supreme Council of Ukraine and force the government of Ukraine to live by the Constitution of Ukraine. We won't let them rob Ukrainian pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Wilcule Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! We have been promised, the whole country has promised to be put to the vote tomorrow with two more pressing questions for the future state. Questions that might be the beginning of a new political model, a better political model than they are now. The first is the removal of parliamentary immunity. I remind all the national MPs, all who are watching us now, that neither those who are currently sitting in the Presidency nor those deputies who are in power today have ever voted for the removal of parliamentary immunity when they were in opposition: neither for President Kuchma, nor for Yanukovich, nor even for President Yushchenko – ever! And they were clinging to this MP's in touch with their legs, their claws, their teeth as they could. So, despite the fact that we are in opposition today, and we are being falsified, we are being heard illegally, we are being terrorized by families, we have taken decisions to change the political model, for the future Ukraine to vote tomorrow to remove the inviolability of the national MPs in the first reading. But! But, my fellow Members, I would like to say this: before this issue is put to the vote in the second reading, we insist that the House be passed the Laws on the Elimination of Final Inviolability from Judges, on the removal of immunity from the President, on the Law on the impeachment of the President, on the Law on Investigative Commissions, on the actual commission of inquiry, so that we do not have any contact in the country. And then we vote for it in the second reading. The second question is the Act on a Proportional System with Open Lists. We're behind this system. This system is more secure from falsifications, this system is more honest, and it's going to be much harder for the authorities to manipulate in the next election. But now there are 5 laws in Parliament, 5 laws that have introduced different factions, including us, with different models of this proportional system with open lists. So I propose to all who call themselves opposition in this House to make a compromise and find votes. Because it's obvious that everyone is going to vote in favor. We still have time, we'll be as constructive as possible. And let's make a compromise, and tomorrow we'll find votes. Thank you. Tomorrow will be a very important day. And our minds will depend on Ukraine's future better political model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich passes the word to Mikhail Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, Michael Bondar, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. 12 numbers in the Ministry were held by a competition commission to elect the Director-General of Lviv-coal. As the head of the subcommittee was present at the presentation of all the deputies who were represented there, five people were doing their assessment accordingly, including seeing each candidate. I want to remind you that the government voted in a government, on a government committee to set up a national coal company, where the DP is being eliminated. And each mine will be a separate legal unit, that is, such as the CEOs in the future will not be. That's why this project is already signed with the Prime Minister. Now I don’t understand why I’m changing the CEO’s responsibility for this transition period. This is probably done to make sure that the money that goes into upgrading the mines and developing new lavas is stolen. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister, Vice Minister Kistion, to deal with the situation. Because it's a candidate. For which the Competition Commission voted, it does not meet the criteria required by the Director-General. Man told us when the entire world community said that more should be invested in the production of solar power, wind power, and new mines, without understanding where to get the money. This man was just pouring water, and I want to say that under this man's rule, the Lviv enrichment factory was passed in, sold to the former regions, and already two courts have been returned to state property. Now this person is being offered again for this position and for these discounts. So I demand that my speech be considered as a parliamentary address. Get out of the way and don't let this person be the CEO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Sporish John gives the speech to Oleg Barney. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u16	Praise Jesus Christ! What happened yesterday, when the MPs threw themselves at the police officer who did the duty and beat him, he was in the hospital, not the Ukrainians, not the patriots. It wasn't the playgrounds or the ATOs, it was the paid-out aunts who, on the basis of their party clowns, performed a destabilisation scenario in the country. No one will break me either, that I went through all the courses, beginning with the first student ninetieth year and the orange, dignity and volunteering at the ATO, and was injured in Maidan and in the ATO. No one's gonna break Colonel Mamchure, who hasn't been broken by a green man in Crimea, and more and more, all paid for. And when we talk about Ukraine, I'm talking about party clowns who have come either from abroad or are financed from abroad or from Russia, or from Cologne, or from other resources, about destabilizing the situation in the country. They couldn't take Ukraine by war, they want to break it from the inside. And they say, not as scary enemy lice as inner lice. Because much cynicism is the fact that you make demands to Parliament in an ultimatum form, which are insurmountable. You know we're voting and accepting, and the President's position on the Anti-Corruption Court. And you know very well that your, in particular the Anti-Corruption Court Bill, the Venice Commission, found faults that needed to be corrected. And this bill must be submitted to the Supreme Council in full. But manipulating it looks cynical and vile and requires a low-level bill. You know very well that we're all in favor of removing the inviolability, and there's a bill of both the President and others about removing the inviolability, and we've all voted for it. But manipulating it is mean. Moreover, especially in the same scenario, you are doing everything you can to break reforms in Ukraine. Just as the court was delayed, just as the pension was delayed, so do you want to delay medical attention. And with regard to the change in the electoral system, that's what today and earlier events have shown the fact that Ukraine is currently preparing a rematch of a coup d'état at the expense of paid party organizations from abroad that do not represent the interests of the people. Because corruption starts with your party lists, and so does a deputy who's been deprived of any thought or vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u17	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u18	Perhaps it is funny, Your Honor, but it is vile of you that your faction came out in the name of Hannah Hopko, the voice of Maidan, the Pusher, and you have expelled them from the list, or other political sects. So I'm going to tell you that Ukraine and all the power of all levels should be chosen exclusively from the people, especially in the Supreme Council there should be power and MPs from the people, Ukraine, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Thank you, Mr. Oleg, your position has been heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u20	I want a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u21	Mr. Oleg, one of your colleagues may pass the time. 30 seconds, finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u22	And it is the Ukrainian people who have all the standards to serve the MPs, not their political clowns. And that's why the position of the New Forces Movement is relative. As long as he doesn't apologize to the military, which is borderline. His hands were stretched out to the border guards, the criminals, when he did not apologize to the colonel he had been calling, the answer was one, or he was leaving the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Artushenko gives the floor to Gerasim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u24	Stop! Stop! Stop! Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that Oleg Barna was injured in Maidan on February 18th. I want to remind you! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we all see what is happening around the Supreme Council. You know, I'm getting more and more confident that neither Saakashvili nor his supporters are making it their goal to meet the demands they've put forward. Their real goal is to destabilize Ukraine at any cost. And we're seeing this right now. Everyone in this room has heard the demands of the rally organizers, I emphasize, the organizers, not the rallyers. And you know, I think that, for example, is a key requirement for removing immunity. First of all, I want to remind you that the President of Ukraine broke this issue early in the 15th year. And I'm sorry, not in words, but in fact, I brought these laws here, and we voted them out. And a lot of those who are speaking today, I would like to point out that words call for the elimination of inviolability or the limitation of inviolability, you know, to give a very simple example. When in 2016 we passed laws in this room that limited the integrity of the judges, one faction that on all airs says that it supported it gave zero votes. The self-help faction, you then gave zero votes for restricting the MP's immunity. For limiting the inviolability of judges. As for the work in this room. An effective parliament is the guarantee of democracy in this state. But we've all seen in the last month as we blocked in this room the decision to increase pensions, as we blocked in this room the decision on judicial reform, as blocked in this room, sorry, the law on recognition by Russia as an aggressor country. And as for the situation today, I would like to end with the following: we all support peaceful action, but peaceful action, when treacherous, back-up action, peaceful action, when they're hiding weapons in shelters, when they're trying to buy weapons and move them here, I think it's unfaithful and very dangerous. So, dear fellows, once again, I want to remind you that our work with you depends on the country's progress and development. Therefore, the blocking of Parliament is unfaithful and must stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u25	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Melnick, "Peter Duster's Block." Now, I'm going to give you a line. Now, wait. Who. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Melnichenko. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I went out to this rostrum only because I had a very unpleasant conversation with entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized businesses. This unpleasant conversation, to put it mildly, was made by the finance minister Daniluk. What are we talking about? Today, a lot of small business representatives are complaining that the Ministry of Finance has created a special program that blocks accounts for small businesses, and today they're unable to pay for products, they're unable to buy a solar system today, and they're able to pick up fields, to plant, and the Ministry of Finance is doing this inexplicably. These are companies that have 6, 10, 15 people, they're companies that've set up businesses that don't ask for anything, jobs, they pay taxes, they pay pensions. We approached Nina Petrovna and Nina Petrovna asked this question, but he just can’t hear us. So I'm addressing you as my colleagues that we've drafted a bill, and I think tomorrow, maybe next week, it's going to be put into the session room, and this bill needs to be supported, banned from blocking accounts for small and medium-sized enterprises. Because I am deeply convinced that it is just a waste in the state and that it is not simply an answer to it, but rather a position to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u27	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Layashka. Lies down Valeriovich, please, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, few colleagues in parliament! BP Block, People's Front, Self-Help, Fatherhood, Opoblok, other factions who are. A radical party, look, in Ukraine, a team of the Radical Party in full stock in parliament. Bepachets, I'm addressing you, listen carefully, you're in power today, you're a coalition today. What's going on in the country now? My assessment, our command: Outside, we are forced by scenarios of the destruction of the country from the inside, the division of the country, and its destruction. Instead of discussing extremely important issues, economic policy, jobs for Ukrainians, the protection of a national producer, new markets, medical reform, the provision of necessary health care for people, the ability to teach our children. What are we discussing? We are discussing the Georgian sunset, which is afraid to come to his own country, where he killed his own citizens for the sake of power. And you're all political, excuse me, colleagues, but you're acting like pygmies, you're being led to an imposed outside scenario. The European Union is closing the market for our metallurgy, the Metallurgy of Zaporozhye, Mariupol is out of work, the government is silent. We are being subjected to medical reform, which will leave Ukraine without medical care — you remain silent. And there's a sunset that's going through the Constitution, by law, you've all been discussing for 26 years. You talk about secondary issues, you don't see your nose anymore, you forget why you came to this room. You all come before the elections and tell people that we're going to raise your wages, your pensions, then you come to Parliament and you're going to go to the Bolshevik principle, the worse the country gets your ratings. You don't vote for salary increases and pensions, so you can start again in the new election to frame people for increasing their well-being. What's your mission, fellow MPs, if you don't know if most of you don't communicate with people? I'll remind you what your mission is, your mission is a great Ukraine, rich Ukrainians, secure people, the future in their country, not abroad. Look at sociology, young people want to leave the country because they can't see the future, pensioners can't survive because there's no money, working people go abroad to earn 300 euros, pots carrying around Europe instead of having jobs, wages, and families being reunited, that's why you came here, most of you forgot about it. You're distracted by secondary issues, you're fighting for power, you're fighting for power, you're fighting for pay and you're fighting for pensions, you're fighting for jobs. And that's how they fight for themselves and fight for power. Make conclusions, assholes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u29	Thank you. And it's time to say it. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u30	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Colleagues, when the argument ends, essentially begin to change to personality. Dear Peter Dusty Block, you're constantly trying to find someone who's guilty of all your troubles and misfortunes who won't let you pass the laws. You are a coalition, you are the majority, you must have 226 votes. Why, when it comes to enacting state laws, do you go to Self-Help, and when you have to adopt something, excuse me, stupid, you go to the lobes of the Party of Regions? You mentioned the changes to the Constitution and the so-called restrictions on the inviolability of judges. Dear friends, there is no limit. Moreover, see how it now draws judges to the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Justice and how Parliament worked with it. There was no application from the prosecutor’s office to be considered by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, where there was no agreement to bring a judge to criminal liability. Look, what's the result now? I'd like to emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u31	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u32	And even during the preparation of the changes to the Constitution, without the adoption of all the necessary codes, all the rest will be the funeral of judicial reform, and this funeral will be given to us in the past week. There will be no judicial reform with such procedural codes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u33	My colleagues, we've taken the time to make a major statement, and I want to remind you that medical reform has almost 900 rights, and yesterday we've reached 250 rights, and I'm inviting a committee representative to the rostrum. I call on everyone to work very actively. We're going to have to go through at least 600 rights today, colleagues. And I very much expect that there will be an understanding of both the right-wing authors and the committee's representative during this work. And I'm asking everyone to get ready, and we're moving on from what we finished yesterday. So I'm announcing the continuation of the draft Law 6327. And at the right hand of 250, I give the floor to the national deputy Semensi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u34	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the electronic health system that works with the adoption of this bill is undoubtedly a huge step forward. However, the issue of intellectual property rights in computer programs that provide such a system remains incomplete. Because the only owner of eHealth software should be the state. My amendment suggests extending the list of patients’ rights, such as to provide that the patient is entitled to access the health data contained in such a system. Because there is a paradox at present, the bill gives the right to access the information given to doctors and even to third parties, and the same right for patients themselves to request no mention. Therefore, I propose to remove such restrictions so that the patient has full access to his or her information, as well as information if he or she is asked to remain silent. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u35	Is the committee going to comment? No, it's not. Please vote. [[10:45:46]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 251. Don't insist. 252. Don't insist. 253. Please: National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u36	Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues, the amendment applies to the removal of corruption risks and the Ministry of Health functions instead of the newly created body. Once again, I would like to point out that this bill contradicts the 22 articles of the Constitution, 49 articles, and 64 articles. The first reading of the bill was followed by a gross violation of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules. If this bill is voted in this way, it will not stand a chance of implementation. He won't have a chance of implementation yet because you don't see the ministry's interest in standing up for this bill. With all due respect to Roman Ilik, where is the head of health care? Why isn't her second day in a row? She's continuing her studies in Ukraine to get a degree in higher education? I'm asking you to put the amendment on. Not put to the vote, she's listed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u37	Thank you. A comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u38	Good morning, respectable citizens, good morning, dear colleagues! I would like to point out once again the same lines that are constantly taking place in this room on the subject of medical reform. The bill aims to establish a national mechanism for the implementation of the article of the Constitution of Ukraine on free medical care. What has just been mentioned by the reporter is his personal subjective impression on medical reform. And I point out that the proposals that were made in his amendment are fully taken into account by the committee's decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u39	Thank you. Next amendment number 254. Don't insist. 255 does not insist. 256 does not insist. 257 does not insist. 258, please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, let's take a look at the real situation when a person tries, the patient will try to file a complaint about the provision of medical services within this one, until it's not clear which government-provided package to the central executive authority that ensures the formation of public health policy. Do you realize that they will start writing in the proposed national service? The Ministry of Health will not perform that function today. Imagine that they will be busy distributing the money between hospitals that are missing, and complaints are still to be considered! Today's going to be a substitution. And people will not get their answer at all. Under these circumstances, I ask that you put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u41	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u42	Yes, I want to point out that article 6 of the bill clearly provides for the right of every citizen, and very clearly the committee has written out patients' rights in the field of state financial guarantees. That is, the accusation of actions or omissions by health - care providers or the authorized authority and its local authorities in accordance with the legal order. That is, all rights and rights are very clearly defined in article 6 of the bill. Your amendment was rejected by the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u43	You insist, don't you? Please vote. [[10:50:01]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, number fifty, 259. You don't insist. 261. Don't insist. 262. Don't insist. 263rd. Don't insist. 264th. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko. Oh, Eutychus, God.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u44	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. This amendment refers to the obligation of patients to provide reliable documents and information needed to obtain medical services and medical supplies; to pay for medical services at their own expense; and to provide payment at the expense of voluntary health insurance and other sources of copayment. The question is, who's going to check the patient's records? What if there was an emergency — a fire, an earthquake, and so on — to provide medical assistance or to seek documents? The same with the authenticity of medical information. Often, a person does not know his own health, and the first diagnosis made by a doctor may prove to be wrong. So the requirement that any patient be obliged to pay for medical services at the expense of their own funds or co-financing is nothing more than a road to the extinction of the nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u45	Thank you. Are you insisting? Do you insist on voting? Yeah? Yes, please vote. [[10:51:41]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 265. Don't insist. 268, no insistence. 269th. Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, this amendment, this is a significant amendment. It is a sign for the reason that it proves to all who have a little chat in their head that we are now violating 116 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. The conceptual things between the first and the second readings cannot be changed. This amendment is not even eligible for voting today because there is no such article anymore. So here's a question. Dear people, honourable colleagues who sit in Communist places, you often complain that the rules of the Constitution and the laws cannot be violated. And you are stubborn today by trampling on the requirements of article 116 of the Ukrainian law. Because a violation of this standard has led to a distortion. There's no payday today. And that was the conceptual position of the so-called. Minister Suprun, who wanted to make a payment in Ukraine for which people just couldn't survive. Thank you. I'm taking it off the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Next amendment number 274. Don't insist. 278. Do Not Urge 279. Don't insist. 287. Don't insist. 288. Don't insist. 290. Please, National Deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to speak to the presiding officer at the meeting. I've got about 30 more rights to confirm. If you give me 3-4 minutes, I'll go through every turn and take them off at all, except for the last eighty-six. Am I going to be able to do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u49	What are the adjustments, please tell us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u50	The amendments are 290, 296, 297, 357, 406, 466, 591, 615, 633, 646, 653, 665, 669, 676, 698, 847, 853 and 854. And on 856, last one, I'll ask for another word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u51	Okay. Then please, three minutes to make a statement about the contents of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u52	Dear Ukrainian national MPs, we are all now in the Hall witnessing what medical reform is really interested in the majority and the Self-Help faction that they are about to vote for. The absence of MPs in the room shows that they are meeting by button because, as was voted in the first reading, it is absolutely illegal and unconstitutional, in violation of the seven articles of the Constitution at the conclusion of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Office. Ladies and gentlemen, please open a document called this conclusion. And you will see that the proposed committee, which will now vote, violates 49 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. This bill contradicts 22 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of narrowing or restricting existing rights and freedoms. It contradicts article 19 and does not include article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the principle of the distribution of power, since it delegates for two years our powers to the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is not in line with the 85th article of the Constitution on the exclusive powers of the Supreme Council regarding, by the way, State health guarantees programmes and article 116 concerning the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It also contradicts 92 articles of the Constitution on guarantees of rights and freedoms that are to be determined by law, and this is not even determined by the law of the Cabinet of Ministers or by the Ministry of Health’s order, but by the provider of medical services. You can imagine the absurdity of the drafters of the bill that they give such powers that are totally contrary to the 92 articles of the Constitution. In addition, a given edition that you intend to support but sincerely hope not to support contradicts the Ukrainian Code of Budgets, the Ukrainian Code of Masters, the Basics of Ukrainian Health Protection Legislation, the Law on Prices and Prices, the Law on State Objective Programmes. It's those who are behind the rostrum with legal education now, and the faction that in the place of the Communists is waving my hand, but you're the lawyers behind the education, the good people, the 7 articles of the Constitution and the 10 laws of Ukraine, and you're going to support such atheism from the government, from the Cabinet of Ministers! In fact, you want to introduce paid medicine in Ukraine, come on, say it honestly and frankly, so that people who pay from their own pocket now not only pay doctors in a shadowy way or buy drugs but also pay for entering the hospital. You're going to close half of the health care facilities, you're going to cut down half the medical staff. This is really going to be your political responsibility of the People's Front faction, the BPP faction and the Self-Help faction. That's what they need to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u53	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u54	30 seconds, I'll finish. I want the future voters to know, because sooner or later the elections will be that in the destruction of the population of Ukraine, in the genocide that this law imposes, if it is, God forbid, accepted, these three factions and those MPs who vote for this fairyk called pseudo-medical reform. Instead, I ask you to put into order the daily alternative bills that are on the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u55	Thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u56	Dear Ukrainians, I want to answer now as a representative of the Self-Help Unit. Just now, all of Ukraine has heard political backing from a former minister of health who has been in office for a long time and has done nothing in this country to improve the condition and conditions of Ukraine’s medical facilities. Then this person went through the majority district and continues to sabotage any action, any reform that really leads to what the Ukrainians are not saying, not from the rostrums will hear about European medical standards, but will see it in Ukrainian medical institutions. As far as your amendments are concerned, you have not said a word about their essence, unfortunately. And all your adjustments that you have never read have been rejected by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Next amendment 292, national deputy Evtushok.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u58	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Is there really a need to reform the health sector? Of course you do. But what do we see, really? We see, in fact, a bill of one financial program, nothing more. So I immediately ask my amendment to delete Article 8, which deals with an additional central authority that will implement state policy in the field of organization and funding for the provision of medical services and medical supplies. However, it does not have any effective influences. The Council will simply have the right to hear reports from the central authority, which is created without any consequence of such consideration. What budget can sustain such a bureaucratic device, and how much better can it be to provide health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u59	Thank you. Next amendment. Do you insist on voting? Yes. Please vote. [[11:00:56]] For-37 For -37. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 294. Don't insist. 295. 293th. Please, National Deputy Shurm. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we must now determine whether we need to create a National Health Service or whether we should assign certain functions to the Ministry of Health. Well, it's like there's an anti-corruption team, already, of those people who want to reform. Why we cannot give them the functions, including the distribution of funds that are now prescribed by the National Health Service. From my point of view, today's coalition, if you trust this person and want to put him in the prime minister's office, give him the opportunity to pursue a health policy, including the distribution of funds, don't pass it on to another structure. Moreover, you put more than 220 million into the next year’s budget for additional services, and you better give it to the sick. So I'm insisting on support for voting on this amendment, we don't need this service as a structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u61	Please vote, Amendment 293. [[11:02:34]] For-29 The decision is not made. 295th. Don't insist. Copy that. 7th. 298. Don't insist. 298th? Please, National Deputy Sobolev Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I see that there is no point in continuing any further discussion, all my next revisions to the Transitional Regulations are the amendments that suggest that this so-called "central organ" be removed. I will explain the logic, according to the Constitution, such bodies have the right to create exclusively the President of Ukraine, but it does not include the issue of health regulation, so the government will in fact be removed from the work of such a body created by the President. That's why my proposal is the only body that regulates health care policy and medical policy in general -- it's the Ministry. If the Ministry gives up that function, I don't understand it at all. So my proposal in the text is not to repeat that if Amendment 298 doesn't go through, and we think that 200 million next year we're nowhere to go, I'm still taking all my changes down to the Transitional Regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u64	I would like to point out once again the substance of the bill. The bill clearly states that the specific central authority of the executive branch that will carry out these powers is essentially to determine the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the direct cost of the State budget. This is his direct definition, in accordance with the Constitution and its direct powers. So in the future, this could be the institution that will be defined by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Next amendment number 299. Don't insist. Next line is 300. Please, National Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u66	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. My fellow Members, I continue to insist that if we want to get a serious increase in the current budget funding for the medical sector, we need to focus on funding the primary medical network, this is a field-based obstetrics station, an outpatient clinic where people can perform quality diagnostics to ensure that our Ukrainian patients will not be able to go to hospitals with their own or other diseases and that we will be able to reduce mortality in Ukraine. Regrettably, the ideologies that have been set up to finance the original chain are wrong, as the practice of financing the newly formed united territorial communities through medical subsidies is a positive one. And we see how it starts to develop and how much better it becomes to serve at the level of the unified territorial communities, which is backed up by the financial mechanism through the medical subsidy mechanism, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u67	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:06:27]] For-33 The decision is not made. The next amendment is 301. Don't insist. Next: 302nd. Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u68	Dear Mrs. Oksana, I have it. Your Honor, Madam Chairman, Mrs. Siroid! Mrs. Siroid, I have an offer for you, I have 33 tickets, nine counted, 12 edited, 12 notable. I don't have my basic proposal for the National Health Service voted out, and I'm going to take off all my amendments that I have there for almost 20, on one condition that you let me discuss them and give them three minutes. If you don't mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u69	Let's go after every correction, please. 300. What do you have there? 302, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u70	302 amendments, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u71	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u72	I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens, out of my 33 rights, 9 are counted, 12 are counted as partials, and the cores of the National Service are unaccounted for. I don't think we're going to be able to duplicate the service and vote in the "no" room today. I call on the people's MPs from the WFP, who you are for reform, to create what you want, to be responsible. I'd like to point out to the presiding officer that the bill is contrary to article 22, article 49, article 64 of the Constitution. It is accepted with a grave violation of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules. I'm not going to be responsible for this stupid vote and sound, I think we are. I'm taking all my amendments down to the end of the bill. And I think we need to define and move on. If there is to be reform, let it be and be the responsibility of those who uphold authority today. And to finish, please ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u73	You'll have another amendment, you'll be able to comment. Do you insist on voting? I can't see. Please vote. [[11:09:16]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The committee wanted to comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u74	I would like to reiterate once again that this bill fully foresees the implementation of the 49th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, all those norms that allegedly violate the Constitution of Ukraine do not correspond to reality. The essence of the bill is finally to form a mechanism when patients are not treated. buy medical supplies and pay in hospitals, and finally the state will do it for them. In fact, the implementation of the rules on free medical care should be adopted in this bill. And the fact that you, as a representative of the political power, have been in this House for many years, sabotaging and adopting no systematic health - care bill, once again, stresses that you are satisfied with the fact that there are now in state and municipal health institutions throughout Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Next amendment number 303. Don't insist. Next 306. Don't insist. Yeah, 307 doesn't insist. 308th, don't insist. 309, don't insist. 310, don't insist. 313, don't insist. 317, don't insist. 318, don't insist. 320, don't insist. 321, don't insist. 322, which one? Another 322? Yeah, okay. Thank you. Now. 325th People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u76	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Law 325 refers to the authority of the National Health Service on access and delivery, and to the processing of personal data and other information on patients, including health, diagnosis, information obtained during the examination. The editorial board’s proposal does not detail the authority of the National Health Service staff in the area of access to patients’ data. These workers are obliged not to allow any kind of disclosure of information stored in the electronic health system that they have become aware of in connection with the performance of official powers, except in cases established in the law. Commitments should also be extended for a period of time after the discharge. I'm asking you to support my work because it improves the process of protecting patients' personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u77	Thank you. You insist, don't you? Please vote. [[11:12:28]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 327. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I turn to my colleagues, who are working so hard to deprive Ukrainians of their right to receive medical care. Yesterday you were popular here shouting, "Go to the people, go to the people!" I suggest you do the same thing: go to people and ask them if they support what you're trying to do here. What is our key task? Of course, there must be a reform of medicine, for, as it is, no one is. One cannot take the last person out of the house to receive medical care or to be left without medical care at all because there is no money. At the same time, however, what is proposed to transfer expenses to the Ukrainians ’ pockets, so that everyone can pay for their own, is also wrong. Because in humans, most Ukrainians do not have the money to pay for basic medical services because of your policies. We suggest we look for gold in the middle. We want a medical reform, so that Ukrainians, not oligarchs, will receive medical care. But give people this chance, give them the opportunity to treat themselves and their children if they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u79	Thank you. Will you comment? Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u80	I want to point out that perhaps not everyone has read and listen to the contents of the bill. The purpose of the bill is to create conditions under which the state, not pocket patients, as you pointed out, is to pay for medical supplies and pay for medical services. I would like to stress the amendment that you insist that the Final Positions of this bill are the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to deal with the issue of the imposition of compulsory social health insurance, and the introduction of such insurance can only be through the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the relevant law. So that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Please. You insisted. Do you insist on voting, Oleg Valeriyovich? Okay, thanks. Please, next amendment number 328. Don't insist. 329, copy. 339. What's that? 330? Please, 330, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I'll be right back with the reporter. Please step away from the rostrum. Step away from the rostrum! Andrew Volodymyrovich, give me 10 seconds. I'm with the reporter. Please don't put me on the political plane, my request and my wish as a young politician. Don't translate it into a political plane because you've done a lot of stupid things in politics. You're out of the coalition, so please take off the title of First Deputy or Deputy, like the opposition, get out of there. And you're out of the coalition, you're left with deputy committees, you're getting money for it, you're breaking the Constitution, and you're teaching others how to do it. So my wish to you is that before you submit this bill, do not appeal to others to adhere to the Constitution because you are throwing it. And you yourself said that co-paying is the way out, and that will lead to that. And you're going to have zero barrels in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u83	Honorable National Deputy Shurma, you're actually accusing the reporter of what you're doing on your own. You translate no, you don't have the right to a replica, because that is, you don't have the right to a replica right now. And please don't, please, hold a meeting with the chairman. Therefore, you cannot tell who may be near the rostrum or who cannot be near the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not commenting, I'm making you a chairman. Thank you. Please don't comment. Thank you. Please, next amendment number 339. No, you don't. 341. Please, 341st National MP. 340 more, I'm sorry. 340th People's Deputy of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u84	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, the bill proposes to create a new central executive body, the National Health Service. In particular, the issue concerns the staff of the body who will collect personal data from all patients registered in the electronic health system and do not have any obligation to preserve this information. And so they can potentially interfere with the system and violate the potential rights of patients. My bill suggests that we remove the inaccuracies in the project and clearly define the responsibilities that people rely on in the National Health Service, such as the right of access to data on patients accumulated in the e-Health electronic system. It is proposed that the text of the draft should be supplemented by the following: "The employees of the central executive body should comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act and the use of information stored in the electronic health system should only be carried out in accordance with their duties." Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:18:31]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 341st National Deputy Donez. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Today, the entire society in Ukraine is demanding an increase in health spending. And this bill guarantees this increase in expenditure of three and a half percent, which is budgeted for the following year, to at least six and a half percent. Everyone's talking about too low wages for doctors in Ukraine, that's between 3,000 and 5,000 dollars. The bill says that Ukrainian doctors’ salaries will cost more than 18,000 dollars. Therefore, there is no need to lie about the bill. As far as this amendment is concerned. Everyone is concerned about the issue of the central authority of executive power and how much it will spend on its wages and how much it will cost. The amendment says that expenditure on the existence of a central executive body cannot exceed 2 percent. So all those who say that this is going to be a valuable organ, please support this amendment. So that no more than 2 percent would still spend on the existence of this organ. Thank you. Put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u87	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u88	Yes, I would like to point out the importance of your revision. But according to current legislation, the cost of maintaining the State’s executive branch is determined in the State budget of Ukraine. So we, as national deputies, will control these expenses when the state budget is approved each year. The committee's amendment is rejected in your line of work. But in fact, I completely agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 341 National MP Donz. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:20:36]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 343, Shurma. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u90	I emphasize that today there is an attempt to create the National Health Service, under which 220 million dollars have already been placed in the budget for the following year. It's going to be people who are going to be dealing with pure corruption, and they're going to be distributing money in hospitals that aren't budgeted. You can see for yourself what this will all lead to. And again, I'm talking to those people who call themselves reformers. When they talk about what a coalition is, let's say, cooperation with the Opposition Block is considered bad. And today, when the coalition tries to unite with those who sit in Communist places, it is normal. I would like to emphasize to you once again that you have left the coalition, have your powers of intercession, be a real opposition, and not be a two-faced Yanus. And what's happening in the coalition right now is an empty hall. Why don't they take it off? Because we're going to have to vote. There's no one to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u91	Mrs. Irina, comment. And I ask you to speak on the amendment and on the content of the amendment and not to ignite interfractional hostility in the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u92	It is difficult to comment on changes that are not read out at all, and the minute is spent on political backs and accusations by political forces. But I would like to point out that the substance of your amendment is fully taken into account and I ask you to read all of your amendments about their content. And if you want to personally address me about your political position or advice, I'd be happy to do it with you separately outside the plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u93	So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 343 people's deputies of Shurma, and the committee rejected it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:22:49]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 346th. Don't insist. 348th. Please, Mrs. Auntie Donz. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u94	Since this bill applies to every Ukrainian citizen, I think it would be appropriate to create a Patient Control Board so that people can influence decisions taken by the central executive body. In fact, the bill says "The Council of Public Control," but since we're doing this exclusively for patients, for every citizen in our country from the day he was born to his day of death, I still propose to create a Board of Patient Control.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u95	Mrs. Irina, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u96	I would like to point out that in the text of the bill in article 8, which is set out in the Committee's edition, a clearly formed Council of Public Control, which is similar to the substance and content of the NABA Act. The committee's amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u97	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 348 National MP Donz. The committee has turned her down, please make up your mind. [[11:24:20]] For-44 44-yes. The decision is not made. 351st. Don't insist. 353rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u98	352. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u99	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law applies to the functioning of the Public Control Board. This structure should become one of the powerful safeguards for potential corruption risks in the activities of the National Health Service. Therefore, the amendment is an essential addition to the bill because it proposes to conduct a competition with the formation of the Council to control the way the citizens who live throughout Ukraine vote on the Internet. The amendment also specifies the duration of the announcement of the competition from the composition of the Board of Control and the requirement for its content, a comprehensive list of documents to be submitted for participation in the competition, a comprehensive list of the reasons and the refusal of the candidate to participate in the competition. In addition, the law defines the procedure for reporting members of the council to the public and the reasons for the adjournment of the Council’s terms of reference. I would like to support you, because this is very much a complement to the text proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u100	Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u101	I want to point out that the important things are included in your amendment and your amendment is supported by the committee's decision in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u102	It's partly supported, you insist that it be fully accepted, right? So I'm voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy of Semimenach that the 352 be accepted in full. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:26:14]] For-47 47-yes. The decision is not made. 353rd. Don't insist. 355th. He insists. Berezenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, indeed, the National Health Service will be the body that will ensure that the budget is transferred from treasury to a health institution directly. So it's very important that this central executive body and the people who are going to be elected there meet certain criteria. Therefore, I consider it appropriate to enforce, at the level of law, the requirements for candidates, such as language, political neutrality, his irreprehensible business reputation, lack of convictions, his business and moral qualities, his educational and professional level, his health, his age. All these criteria should be prescribed in the requirements for the head of the National Health Service, and this amendment was made by me, Amendment 355. The service has to function effectively, so we need to include as much as possible. exclude the potential corruption risks and incompetence of the staff of this service. So, dear colleagues, I would like to go back to the 355, which has not been taken into account and put it on record, and consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Please vote. Amendment 355. [[11:27:52]] For-37 The decision is not made. The committee wanted to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u105	I would like to point out that the requirements for the head of the central executive authority and the order of its appointment are determined by the general order of appointment of such leaders in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Service. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that the bill provides for the creation of a public control board and very clearly stated requirements for persons who cannot be part of a public control board: persons authorized to exercise the functions of a state or of local self-government, including persons who, in the sense of the Prevention of Corruption Act, are close to the head, the deputy head of the central executive authority and many other requirements that are to form the number and quality composition of the Council of Public Control at a high level of state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Next amendment number 356. May I see the People's Deputies of Semimenah, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u107	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the main task of the Public Control Board is to monitor the activities of the National Health Service. Because the transparency of the body that will accumulate and manage billions of dollars of taxpayers is one of the insurers if corruption risks arise. The law therefore proposes a position that regulates the legal status of the Council of Public Controls, the order in which it is formed, the authorization of the Council and the legal consequences of such decisions. It proposes a clear algorithm for the interaction between the National Health Service and the Council of Public Controls, for example, defining the terms of consideration by the board’s proposals and recommendations, providing mandatory justifications, grounds and motives for rejecting the board’s recommendations, and introducing mandatory publication of the Board’s recommendations. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u109	I agree that it is extremely important to build a mechanism that will be transparent and eliminate potential corruption by the representatives of this authorized body. Thus, the committee is very clear on article 7 of the Ukrainian law on the authorization of the body, its mandate, its functions, including the clear requirements for the Council of Public Control. And it is also very clear that the Civil Control Board hears information about the performance of the tasks of the authorized authority, examines the reports of the authorised authority and has other rights that are provided for in the Regulations on the Civil Control Board. That is, the maximum quality and control of the use of budgetary resources will be provided by the Council of Public Controls.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 356. [[11:31:09]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 357. Don't insist. 350. 366. Please, 360s, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u111	Dear citizens! The amendment applied to the appointment of the head of the National Service. Here's the quality of this bill, where order has been prescribed and it's not given a function, the wrongness of appointment, it's not regulated by law. So this amendment is counted, it is rejected. But I find the discussion of the bill to be absurd because there is no one in the room. There are people in the room who are totally not interested in amending this bill. My proposals to improve the health system are addressed to the President. Offer the concept, the National Security and Defence Council will approve it, the Cabinet of Ministers, please elaborate, and the Supreme Council will provide a legal escort. And now to the chairman's proposal to meet outside Parliament, I'd be happy to meet you, but I'll give you a public answer no, since my family is watching, she won't understand me properly. Thank you for the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u113	As far as the amendment is concerned, it is fully accounted for, and I do not consider it necessary to continue to respond to such hammocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u114	Thank you. I think it's not right to really go to sexist lines with an experienced policy. Please, number 366, don't insist. 369, don't insist. 370th People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u115	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, it is not clear from the text of the bill whether the political neutrality of the future head of the National Health Service will be ensured? There are also doubts about sufficient safeguards to prevent conflicts of interest, so my permission offers several things. First, there cannot be a person assigned to a position who, within a year of appointment, was part of the governing bodies of the political party, or has another representative mandate. Secondly, a person cannot be appointed who is a member of a management body or is owned directly or indirectly by enterprises, or by corporate rights of operators engaged in activities of medicine, manufacture of medical devices, or by family members owned by such enterprises or rights. The establishment of the proposed limitations is justified and aimed at reducing or avoiding and preventing possible abuses and excluding the unbiasedness of the director of the National Health Service. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u116	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u117	In view of the fact that article 9 was completely excluded from the text of this bill from the central authority of the executive branch and the order of its appointment is determined by law, by the order of appointment of such leaders, namely, the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Service of Ukraine, that is why your amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u118	If you would like to express yourself by voting. Amendment number 370. [[11:34:49]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Amendment 371, do not insist. 372, they don't insist. 373, don't insist. 374, don't insist. 375, they don't insist. 376th, not on. 376 please, National Deputy Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u119	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, look, you're creating this organ, but look at the demands of the head of this body. A person who regulates the financing of the medical sector is not required to be and to have a medical education. My correction and the essence of it is to add "higher medical education," how can such a person regulate such things in the field of people who don't have legal education, enough people who don't actually have any education, let's let the medical industry run a person who doesn't have medical education, what's the logic? What is the purpose of this body? Let's write corruption education down if it's created for this body. The explanation, please, is not to be voted on by the committee. I don't understand it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u120	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u121	The committee has rejected your amendment because we have completely excluded that article of the bill, which refers to the head of the central executive body, because it is governed by separate legislation. But with regard to the content and activities of the central executive body, I would like to point out to you that it will not exercise any quality control, it will only pay by the state budget for the accounts at the medical facility. So your amendment to the committee is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u122	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:37:07]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 377, you don't insist. Next, 378th. Please, People's Deputy Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u123	I support my colleague Sobolev's offer. We remember that Stalin had already been thrown into parts of the work of people who had no education at all, and at the cost of human life, Stalin’s problems were solved. I have the impression that our reformers are planning to do the same. Well, at least there should be some initial medical education in people who are going to be dealing with the problems of all of Ukraine. What are you talking about? Why can't you count it? Therefore, my proposal is that part of the first article 9 should be supplemented by a new paragraph: "Representatives of the head of the central executive authority, which implements public policy in the field of funding for the provision of medical services and medical resources, may be appointed persons with full medical education." If you are already the boss, consider that he should be a writer and make the right decisions, at least the deputies should be competent people!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u124	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u125	I fully agree with you basically that everyone has to do their job. The patient should be treated by a doctor, financial matters, and financial management should be handled by appropriate professionals in the relevant field. But as far as your amendment is concerned, it is rejected because it is excluded from the text of the bill by the entire 9th article that regulates this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u126	Thank you. You insist, don't you? Please vote. [[11:39:12]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 379. Don't insist. 380. Don't insist. Three hundred and eighty. Please, 380s, People's Deputy Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u127	I understand that the suggestions made by the medical community, including at the district and rural health institutions, are of no interest to anyone. So I have this proposal to look at my colleagues, let's not continue to participate in this show, because I understand that these amendments are now being considered so scrupulously, no one is yelling about what they're taking, as they were yelling before, we're going to make all the amendments. And then the presiding officer should put to the vote the adoption of this law as a whole. And let's look at the issues that require consideration in the Supreme Council of Activists, which are now at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues, this proposal. It's the right thing to do in a state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u128	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u129	Regrettably, once again, you did not say the substance of your amendment. As far as its content is concerned, article 9 was excluded from the text of the bill, but I fully agree with you that once the committee and you and I are through all the amendments, accordingly the Supreme Council of Ukraine should proceed immediately to the consideration of those bills that require people outside the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Next amendment 381. Don't insist. Next. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, it's okay. 382. Don't insist. 383rd. Don't insist. 384th. Don't insist. 385th. Don't insist. 389th. Don't insist. 390. Don't insist. 391. Don't insist. 392. Don't insist. 393. Don't insist. 394. Don't insist. 395th. Don't insist. 396. Don't insist. 397. Don't insist. 398. Don't insist. 399. Please, National Deputy Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u131	Good afternoon! I'm sorry there aren't so many deputies in the room. I'd like to pay particular attention to the fact that the only faction that's not in the room is the Opposition Block. In fact, there are a few people who are now trying to block everyone, all the processes of real reform that haven't started in our country. My amendment is that we should still be open when we choose the head of the central executive body to do so on a competitive commission and this head was not entitled to be in office for more than three years, and of course not more than two consecutive terms. It's a European draft. And the principle is that this is being done at an open competition. This body is technical. Anyone who claims to be distributing money is not true. He's making deals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Will you insist on your amendment, vote? Please, now we're going to finish our review of the amendment and I'm going to give a line to the opposition block. The faction has the right to reply to the replica, too. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u133	I fully agree with you that there should be control over both the director and the deputy heads of that government body, which could be created by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But your amendment is rejected because article 9 on the head of the central executive body is excluded from the text of the bill. And all the control over both the management and the functioning of the entire central executive body on the payment of medical services will be carried out by the Council of Public Control.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Please vote first. I can hear you, Your Honor, the Opposition Block. Please vote. [[11:44:22]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Please, a replica for the Opposition Block. People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. Here's the de jure representative of the Radical Party faction, but I understand she's not with any of her colleagues anymore, because she's betrayed them, but she's here talking about the opposition block not being in the hall. First of all, the Opposition Block is in the plenary room. Secondly, we are taking an active part in this bill. And thirdly, unlike you, we have not supported or supported this shameful medical reform because it is not in the interests of the people, nor is it in the interests of the people, the pension reform that you personally voted for. That's why I'm asking the opposition block not to lie. And as for the coalition, it's not really there. Nor are any factions that form part of the coalition present. Why? Because there's actually a formal process going on right now. All the amendments discussed are not supported by a small number of national deputies. And in fact, there is now a simulation of the work of the Supreme Council, not the consideration of the urgent issues that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u136	Thank you. I want to point out that there is a process of second reading going on, as you always do, in accordance with the amendment regulations. That's why amendment number 400. Don't insist. 401. Don't insist. 402. Don't insist. 403. Don't insist. 405. 404. Please, National Deputy Sergei Melnichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the law applies to the specificities of medical contracts. And according to paragraph 5 there are some items that are included in this contract. But the document then says 6 points that these contracts should be published on the website. So we see that this is a violation of the Personal Data Protection Act, so please put it on confirmation and identify yourself. Because there are so many violations in this bill that not only violate Ukraine's legislation, but the Basic Law of Ukraine is the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u138	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u139	I want to tell my colleague that we need to read the whole bill carefully. And the amendment that you're trying to delete from the text of the bill is that the agreement on public health care is a contract between the body that will pay for the contract of medical institutions, which is the moment of reporting on the expenditure of the budget. And it's very important for all of Ukraine to see what costs are coming to one hospital or another. And there's no way there's going to be any information about the patients and the personal data that you've mentioned. So please support this amendment, it's important to the whole bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u140	I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:43]] For-52 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 405. Please, the People's Deputy Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, there is such a tragic event going on in Ukraine right now, and you and I are catching a flea on a mad dog. I mean, on a totally wrong bill that's anti-national, we're trying to correct it. It is flawed in its nature because it translates payment for the procedure on the shoulders of people who do not have money today. It's not enough that this bill, its purpose, is to centralize 100 billion dollars and take them away, take this medical subsidy to the community. With my license number 405, which I'm asking for confirmation, I'm returning to the community medical subsidies and the right to have an impact on the financing of the primary chain, because it's impossible and impossible for the community to have an influence on my family doctor. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u142	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u143	I would like to point out that your amendment provides for the redistribution of budgetary resources to reduce the level of control of the medical safeguards programme. In the future, this may lead to an unjustified second - rate referral of patients to lower the role of the primary medical care chain. That's why the committee rejected your amendment. And I think you, as chairman of the committee, have to fight directly for the quality and essence of medical reform, not to do what you're doing in the room right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u144	Thank you. May I have a line from the national MP, the Mantis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u145	I was elected to Parliament by the Ukrainian people. That's why I'm fighting here not for pseudo-reform, anti-national reform, but for people's rights to accessible, guaranteed medical care that would not kill them or reduce the population in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u146	Thank you. Please determine by vote, Amendment No. 405. [[11:51:22]] For-40 The decision is not made. Amendment 407. Don't insist. 409th. Don't insist. 410. Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u147	Igor Shurma, "The Opposition Block" is for those who are blind in the hall and who are also lying, right there, behind the column. And now, essentially. The honourable colleagues, the bill, are in violation of articles 22, 49, 64 of the Constitution. In view of the fact that the amendments are not being made, I will withdraw all my amendments and no longer put them to the vote and confirmation. And what I'm trying to say is that it's going to be an extension of the procedure for what reason? Because when we're done talking, we're gonna have to vote, and there's no coalition in the room. It's so that I don't have to be accused of sexism, of showing great respect, respect and love for women, of politics, of female leaders, and of not standing behind the rostrum, and of doing a stupid job of time-consuming, I take all my changes, and I say again, in honor and respect for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Next amendment number 413. Don't insist. 412. Please, National Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u149	I support the head of the Committee, Olga Vadimovna Bogolec, and my amendment also applies to leaving subsidies to communities because only communities know how to save FAPs, outpatients, and how to make medicine accessible and quality to people. As for Olga Vadimivne, I want to say that she's with the community, with the unions, with the medical staff, just fighting for a high-quality medical reform. What I'm trying to say is that Saturday, Sunday, there were incomprehensible actions under the house, under the clinic of Olga Vadimovna Bogomolec, because she's fighting for medical reform. And today in Ukraine, we have a huge medical forum in Kiev where there will be thousands of people who don't exactly support this disgraceful law 6327 but support the 7065 law, which is a medical reform, and in which there is a subsidy to the community. Please make an amendment to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u150	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u151	I want to point out that all of Ukraine sees who is fighting in this state and in medicine personally. What about your amendment, which, unfortunately, you did not say, but you spent time on political pyar? So it's partially accounted for. And with regard to community support and funding, the text provides for the right and the possibility for local budgets to pay extra, and to finance health services that will not be included in the list of services that will be paid for the State budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u152	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:55:08]] For-40 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 413. Don't insist. 414. Don't insist. 416. Don't insist. 418. People's Deputy Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u153	Yury Solovay 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Poetry Regrettably, the current model of medical services in Ukraine does not provide for a health insurance mechanism. This is a big problem because in Europe, if you want to get any medical care, you have to get medical insurance, carry out annual diagnostics, and that's the basis for a much longer life span in Europe. Medical diagnostics is the primary level of medicine, they're the field-based obstetrics, they're the ambulatorys, they're the clinics. I would like to emphasize once again that as an active editor, in particular in this part, we are depriving the primary link of medicine and the organs of local self-government of the impact on the quality of these services. Although the practice of recent years, particularly in the decentralization of the creation of united territorial communities, it shows that some progress has been made. That's why I'm offering to support mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u154	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Dear reporter! I'd like to look at a bill on medical reform on the basis of which we still put the patient's interests and interests ahead of the financial flows of local self-government. I'll give you an example, in Smila Cherka district this year, the local self-government authorities didn't include in the network of medical facilities that they were supposed to fund an important multi-profession hospital, SMH No.14. This led to the fact that both patients and doctors remained on leave for almost nine months without paying their wages, and patients were unable to receive medical care there. This is what led to the work of local self - government authorities. So if we're talking about a state guarantee, it's the state that's responsible for both the patient and directly paying the taxpayers' fees to medical institutions when a patient comes to a hospital. That's why your amendment to the committee was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u156	Thank you. Members, please determine by vote the amendment number 418, please vote. [[11:58:08]] For-32 For -32. The decision is not made. Amendment number 419, no insistence. Amendment number 422, do not insist. Amendment number 425, do not insist. Amendment 426 does not insist. Amendment number 429, don't insist. 428. Please: People's Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u157	I ask the chairman to turn on the microphones, uh, dynamics, so the people on the street can hear what's going to happen. In fact, to be in the hall and not only now, but also after a lunch break, so that they can see who will delay the time when the vote will take place. As far as correction is concerned. The provision of medical services and medical supplies under the secondary and third chain medical guarantees should be made only by the permission of the so - called primary physician. And the patient can't go without, let's say, his recommendations. I don't think that's right. He can approach the other without a doctor on his own. to the secondary and third chains. Therefore, please place an amendment on the confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u158	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u159	I want to point out that there's no such thing as "the first doctor," as you just pointed out, and there's "the doctor of family medicine," there's a therapist, there's a pediatrician. What is important about the amendment is that it is this amendment that gives the patient the right to take away the primary physician and directly the expert, the family doctor, or the pediatrician, who has to identify the narrow professional who is to look at the patient further. To determine whether further diagnostics are needed in this case, either to a cardiologist or to an urologist or to other second - level narrow professionals. Now it's all settled by the patient on its own, and that's exactly the standard we're trying to create the maximum guarantee of safety and the quality of medical care for the patient. So please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u160	Please vote. "For." The committee decided to support it. [[12:00:46]] For-59
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u161	59-yes. The decision is not made. Colleagues, 12 years old. I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the medical reform room for further consideration. 430th is going to be the next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and continue our work. Mrs. Irina, please go to the rostrum. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I remind you, we're looking at Bill 6327. And we stopped before the break on line 430. And we're still working on the paperwork. So, colleagues, I call editing. 431, no insistence. 432, no insistence. [[B in m in s a l in]] 33rd is right, Mrs. Tetjana? 433th, Auntie Donz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u163	Dearly present, each of us understands clearly that, today, Ukraine is living very poor, even to this day, the Ukrainians may contact a doctor, but the main problem is that those medicines prescribed by the doctor are expensive enough for the Ukrainians. And that's the main problem: the doctor accepts them, but there's nothing to be treated for. My amendment says that if a person goes to a doctor, the doctor has prescribed some or other medications that are part of the guaranteed list, regardless of whether these drugs are taken by an ambulance or a hospital, they should be free to the Ukrainians. This is an excessive remedy that really guarantees that life in Ukraine will be extended because you cannot be treated without the funds to buy medicine. I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u164	Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u165	I want to fully agree with the context of what she just said. Indeed, this bill should form what medical supplies and certain types of medical care patients are currently paying for are operations, this is also a reference to narrow-profile professionals, and the diagnostic issue, all of which should be paid for by the State Budget. But at the same time, your amendment is technically rejected by the committee's decision, since the content of your amendment is already contained in article 9 of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u166	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 433 National Deputy Tetjana Donz. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. We'll support Mrs. Tetian. [[12:37:14]] For-44 Your amendment brought together the hall, Mrs. Tetjana. 434th. Don't insist. 436. Don't insist. 440. Don't insist. 442. Don't insist. 444th. Don't insist. 448th, 449th, 452nd, 454th, 458th, 460th, 463rd. Please, Victor Pinzenik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u167	Dear Head, Your Honor, I'd like to ask for confirmation of the 464. This is a controversial amendment that on the one hand upholds the principle of single tariffs, and on the other hand, it cripples this ideology because it provides for the application of correction coefficients. Secondly, this right is contrary to the Constitution in part to the equality of the rights of all subjects of property rights. In particular, this bill provides for the prepayment of services only for public and municipal health institutions. We need to be able to choose patients from better medical institutions. However, this right also discriminates against public health institutions, since it provides that they are allowed only outside the state guaranteed package to provide 20 percent of the services, which is not applicable to the private sector. So both one and the other forms of property are discriminated against. I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm, to reproduce the standard that was in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u168	Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u169	I strongly disagree with your proposal, and I believe that article 10 is a very important and fundamental principle for this bill. It is a well - established tariff that will be paid by medical institutions. Separately, there may be separate tariffs for the primary line, for the second, for the third level of medical care. As for the right of patients to go to the health facility that has the best service, it is also the essence of the bill. Thus, if the patient chooses a private medical facility, the State will be obliged to pay the same rate as the health care paid in public hospitals, the same rate of health care may also come to private medical facilities. The difference between the cost of service in private institutions and the rate may be paid by the patient on his own if he chooses an additional service. So I insist on keeping article 10 in the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u170	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 464, the committee supports it and asks all national deputies to support it. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[12:40:38]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 465th. Don't insist. 466. Don't insist. 470. He insists. 470th, Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I hear a representative of the committee speaking from the rostrum talking about the only approach. If the same service is provided, regardless of who provides it, the state has to pay the same. Therefore, tariffs should be the only one. We cannot allow pets to appear in some health facilities to create a system of correctional coefficients that is different from that of other health - care professionals, sorry, medical institutions. So my amendment refers to the rule of elimination of correction coefficients. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u172	Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u173	I want to read the direct norm of article 10 so that there is not what the speaker is now saying. It is clearly stated that all parts of Ukraine are subject to the sole payment rates for medical services. The rate is guaranteed to all health - care providers in accordance with their health - care contracts. So what you're saying, selectivity and everything else, is impossible, because it's in this bill that we've made sure that there's no selectivity and no pets, as you said, can be if this law of Ukraine is implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u174	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 470 People's Deputies of Pinzenik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:42:51]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 473rd. Don't insist. 475th. Don't insist. 480s. 482nd. 483rd. Victor Pinzenick insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u175	So once again, if we're talking about a single approach, what is the logic of applying correction coefficients? The existence of this standard allows us to still show our pets, to set specific tariffs for some. There must be one approach everywhere: regardless of where the service is given to the medical facilities, the tariff should be the only one. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u176	Mr. Victor, favorites, favorites. That's more right. Lovers. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u177	I would like to point out, for example, the substance of the amendment in question, that article 10 of the bill sets tariffs for different kinds. This is only to ensure that the financing of various types of medical care takes place according to the principles when they are as effective as possible, for example, that the primary chain should be formed and paid as much as possible to ensure that there are costs in medical facilities when the patient comes to them, not waiting for medical services to be performed and only after they receive payment. Thus, the bill provides for five types of tariffs, and it is clearly stated that these rates can be used both together and separately. All of this must be for the sole benefit of a medical institution in order for them to be financially provided when the patient comes to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u178	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 483. She was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:45:10]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 485th. 492. What's that? All right, turn on Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u179	I'm asking you to put the five right now, these are the same types of readjustments, for confirmation: 486th, 88th, 90th, 93rd, 94th. There is no point in breaking the system, moving from one funding system to a service payment system, if it is not fully paid for medical services, the system simply cannot work. I would very much like the budget to be able to pull this system, but you know very well that the possibilities in the budget are comprehensive. So I'm asking questions about co-paying, asking for confirmation, voting on these five rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u180	Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u181	The issue of the cancellation of payments was amended by almost all factions in Parliament. Many amendments were made by the national deputies just to eliminate the issue of co - paying. As long as we don't form public payment mechanisms for the medical services of those people who can't participate in co-payments, these are pensioners who are low-income, under the law, to make co-payments on the part of Ukrainian citizens as long as it's inappropriate. Thus, the bill applies to the full payment of all medical services by the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u182	Do you insist on voting? I'm going to set up a separate set. 486. For confirmation. The committee's asking for support. Please vote. [[12:47:13]] For-22. The decision is not made. 488th. The committee takes her into account and the committee asks her to support her. Please vote. [[12:47:43]] For-41 The decision is not made. 490. For confirmation. The committee's asking for support. Vote. [[12:48:01]] For-49 The decision is not made. I didn't make it. Let's get back to the vote. Abdulin's voice was just definitive. So, colleagues, next 493. For confirmation. The committee supports. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:48:33]] For-60 The decision is not made. And 494. The committee's asking for support. Vote. [[12:48:52]] For-58 The decision is not made. 498. Don't insist. 500th. Don't insist. 502nd. Don't insist. 506th. Don't insist. 509th. Don't insist. 512th. Don't insist. 519. Don't insist. 526th. Don't insist. 535. Don't insist. 537. Don't insist. 538. Don't insist. 544th. Don't insist. 545th. Don't insist. 545th. Sergey Eutuszek. He insists. I'm asking you to turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u183	Very persistent. Thank you, Mr. Head. I also want to say that there is no point in discussing here in this room an empty amendment all so ask the chairman not to put all my amendments to the vote and not to include the microphone. In general, the bill says that it is a bill of one financial programme that takes from the united territorial communities, from the local councils all the funds to the central authority, does not create additional sources of funding, lack of insurance, all of this will result in a person not being able to receive normal medical care as a medical sector. And emergency medicine can't be reformed without funding either, because it has to be a service, a service that can save a person in a matter of minutes, which, God forbid, is sick, a stroke, a heart attack and all. All of this does not exist in this reform or the pseudo-reform, so please do not put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u184	Mrs. Irina, comment on Sergey Eutushka's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u185	This bill is indeed a financial guarantee for the citizens of our state and it is very important to finally stop what has existed in our hospitals for many years, what people have to pay for on their own, and the fact that for them it will finally start to pay the state is extremely important for every citizen of our state. What's relevant to insurance medicine and everything else is the extra taxes that we have the right to impose only when we form a mechanism that will work. And how much money is going to be spent now by the state in the form of taxes, but it's effective to use them for services and patients, not to fight to save money for city authorities, the district authorities, which will again have to have MPs. We have the basis for placing the patient and paying for the patient on the side of the state rather than fighting for local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u186	Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. So let's move on. 546th. 548th. Don't insist. 551st. He insists. Yes. Igor's storm, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u187	For those who fail to see and lie about the presence in the Chamber of Deputies. Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Andrey Volodymyrovich, I deliberately call you by your father's name, put you to a vote to see how many people are in the hall. But that kind of reform, it's said to be so overwhelming, so people think it's what they're going through. Today, half the people will be inclined to vote for it, and when the discussion is in effect, put to the vote how many people are in the room. If you need another reason, I say again: Please put this to a vote, I've called your name, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u188	You didn't hurt me, did you? So first of all, I'm going to ask you to speak on the subject of the amendment, and second of all, I'm going to look at your proposal in detail and I'm going to make the right decision. Continue, colleagues, work. And I invite the heads of the right to speak solely on the subject of the right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u189	Please comment to the committee, there was nothing here. Amendment No. 552. Don't insist. Amendment number 553. Don't insist. 554. Don't insist. 555. Don't insist. 556. Don't insist. 557. Don't insist. 558. Don't insist. 559. Don't insist. 560. Don't insist. 560. May I have the People's Deputy Mantis, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I insist on returning and voting 560, since the following statement was made in support of the committee’s refusal, the working group’s acceptance of the amendment. Since free medical care is provided to all citizens within state guarantees, my application has been removed, but these limits do not cover all medical care. Therefore, if this amendment is not introduced and is not voted on, we are balancing military medicine, so we need to add the words "for the rehabilitation of disabled people in Ukraine and for social protection, and for the legal protection of military personnel and their families, for the National Guard, for the National Police, for the Ukrainian Security Service." It's after the word "donation of blood and its components." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, the committee will comment, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u192	Your amendment is considered to have been rejected only technically, but the content and substance of your amendment is fully preserved in the law. All defined health benefits for war veterans, war veterans, disabled persons, Chernobylites, military personnel, various military services, and other population categories defined by other laws are preserved. That is, this bill does not deprive previously established health benefits for individual population categories that are entitled to it under the current legislation of Ukraine. So your amendment is essentially fully included in the text of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u193	Please vote. No further comments, please vote. [[12:55:50]] For-30 3a to 30. The decision is not made. The next amendment number 562, do not insist. 565, don't insist. 566, don't insist. 568, please, 566, People's Deputy Beresenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! The 566 amendment was just meant to avoid manipulation by the opposition to medical reform, and we suggested that we introduce the concept of an additional tariff, which is paid for by services that are not included in the medical guarantees programme that the patient needs. It's those guarantees, those medical needs that have to be met for the patient. Such services may be paid or paid for by other budget programs or medical subsidies or at the expense of voluntary health insurance. I'd like to put it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u195	Thank you. Please vote. Whether the committee will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u196	Yes. I would like to point out that your amendment has been rejected because all the guarantees and benefits that are granted to the population in accordance with Ukrainian laws have already been preserved in the bill and this is mentioned in Amendment 97 in Part Three of Article 3 of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u197	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:57:38]] For-30 The decision is not taken. The next 568 doesn't insist. 569, they don't insist. 571 a.m., no insistence. 573, not necessarily. 575, no insistence. 577th, not necessarily. 578th, not necessarily. 579th, not necessarily. 580th, no insistence. 581th, not necessarily. 582, not necessarily. 586th, not necessarily. 587th, not necessarily. 588th, not necessarily. 589th. Please, the People's Deputy Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u198	Please submit this right to vote in view of the fact that the provision of psychiatric care to people in Ukraine is not regulated by a separate national program. That's why these people, and they're over a million, are going to run out of clear software. without clear software funding. Fewly, this law will balance the entire health system and lead to a worsening of the situation. It will lead to additional dangers in society. Please put an order in the voice. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u199	Please comment on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u200	Your replica does not match the reality, as the text of the bill foresees that all forms of medical care, including psychiatric care, will be paid for, which you have just mentioned. That is why technical issues related to the deletion of article 13 of the bill, which provided for payment, and since we ruled it out, we ruled out your amendment accordingly. But basically all kinds of medical care will be paid for every citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u201	Thank you and vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is not a debate, distinguished national MPs! There's a comment to the amendment and there's a committee response, and the room is defined. [[12:59:55]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 592, People's Deputy of Semimenah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u202	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, at the launch of the eHealth system that proposes this bill, we have to take into account all previous errors that have accompanied the work and maintenance of similar databases. I would like to remind you of the serious problems of a few years ago when it was discovered that the database and software of the country that the Ministry of Justice served became the property of private companies, and the state was forced to pay millions of royalty for copyright. Therefore, my law proposes to supplement the bill with the rule that intellectual property rights in computer programs that ensure the functioning of the system, the electronic health system, and the compilation of data in this system belong exclusively to the State. The amendment also proposes that Kabmin be empowered to develop and implement measures to ensure the security of information, its preservation, its transmission, risk minimisation, distortion, irregular interference and flow, and to ensure continuity of the eHealth system. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u203	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u204	In fact, the committee supports the substance and content of your amendment. But technically, the committee rejected your amendment. And it is clearly stated in the text that the order of operation of the electronic health system will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Detailing only individual elements of the electronic system in this law is not appropriate, since it is not about electronic systems, but about government financial guarantees for the payment of public health care.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u205	I ask the honourable deputies to vote, to determine how to vote. [[13:01:58]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 602. Please, National Deputy Donzo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u206	I insist on that. And I would like to point out that, given the requirements of personal data protection legislation, I would like to clarify the position of consent of the patient to access his personal data. By signing a doctor’s medical certificate for primary care, the patient’s legal representative agrees to access data about him every month in the electronic health care system only to such a doctor for primary medical care. I ask you to place this amendment on confirmation. And I also want to go back because they didn't see my hand before 528.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u207	We can't go back to 528 amendments, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u208	Then I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u209	Yes, thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u210	According to existing legislation, the patient is already entitled to access any personal information and personal data. Accordingly, your amendment does not require an additional legislative arrangement. So the committee rejected her.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u211	People's deputies, please determine by vote. [[13:03:33]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 606. Nope. 605. Please, National Deputy Beresenko. Berezenko National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u212	Madam Chairman, I would still like you to pay attention to the need for deputies to go back to those rights that have passed, to them there are other questions. The Rules do not provide that this is a violation of the Rules. So at least a few lines that I'd like to talk to, both Tetjana Donz, and I have, I think, other deputies. But as for 605 revisions. This is Mr. Ostapchuk's paper. And I think it's very well-spoken. Where the central executive body that implements public policy in this area is obliged to publish and make available monthly data to the central executive body that ensures the formation of public policies, the data stored in the electronic health system, provided that personal data are declassified in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. I think this was rejected, but this would be correct. And it could be the right thing to do. So please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u213	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u214	In fact, your amendment was taken into account by the committee's decision, but it was presented in another edition, which is an article of the relevant bill. So technically, the committee rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u215	Thank you. Please be determined by the vote of the national MPs. Amendment No. 605. [[13:05:28]] For-32 Thank you. I just want to comment that since I'm calling all the amendments that are rejected there and we're clearly following the amendment numbers, I'm asking the national MPs to keep an eye on it. Otherwise, if we keep coming back, it'll just take away the meaning of our work. Please follow the process. Thank you. Amendment No. 606, People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u216	The Fatherland faction, People's Deputy Dubyl. Again, I stress that Law 6327 is not a medical reform. We're talking about what you're taking into the community today is the kind of money that's targeting the FAP and the infirmary. Today, the medical sector, the trade unions, have come to a firm forum and do not support Law 6327. And we demand that you put an alternative law on which the "Fatherland" faction worked along with the Mantis, head of the committee, with the other deputies, put this law in the hall as an alternative. Today, if you look at the budget for the next year, the unions are asking. This year, there was a subsidy of 54 billion, 6 billion is not enough. For the following year you put up 51 billion subsidies and put 13.1 billion in primary. Under your law, the unions have calculated that it will only take 180 billion dollars to pay the salary. Where is the source of funding for medical personnel? Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u217	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u218	I want to say that we are not discussing the state budget project for the next year. You're going to be able to make corrections as a national deputy, as far as increasing medical subsidies are concerned. Now we're discussing a bill that's going to form new principles of payment, the costs that are being allocated each year in the state budget, and every single copy of it not to city or district or district council deputies, but to directly form financial flows for payments to medical institutions for people, for patients. That is to say, let us take priority over putting a person in a medical institution, and the State is obliged to pay for the person directly at the expense of the State rather than to fight for the local authorities to have the money that is essentially owned by the people and for which medical resources are to be bought.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u219	Thank you. Members of parliament are requested to determine how to vote. [[13:08:27]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 613. Please, National Deputy Donzo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, since everyone is saying that the institution that we are creating will use enough funds, in my view, it would be advisable to create not only a Council of Public Control, which is an advisory body, but still make a more effective body, which should have a supervisory board, which can be entered by representatives of both patients and the state and service providers. Then this body will be effective, it will be able to influence the decision, and we will not talk about the fact that the management of such a large amount of money is still the signature of one person. I want you to take this decision seriously and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u221	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u222	The committee determined that the body that would oversee the functioning of the central executive body was also created by the Council of Public Controls in the same way as the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. It is the same analogy and principle that this bill forms for the creation of a Council of Public Control.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u223	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:10:07]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Amendment 614. People's MP Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u224	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues and a respected Ukrainian society, in fact, my amendment refers to the allocation of medical services between the central executive authority and the local self-government authorities, since the current law of local self-government completely deprives them of both the financial capacity and the influence on the provision of services at the primary level of medicine. I don't deny that the central executive authority should be the customer of services at the third and secondary levels, but I strongly stress that if we're talking about primary medicine, Field Office and obstetrics, outpatients, then better than the local self-government authorities, no central executive authority is organizing or providing this service. So actually, it's my job to leave the organs of local self-government at the primary level and to strengthen them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u225	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u226	I agree with you that local self-government should create appropriate conditions in the form of building outpatients, creating FAPs at appropriate locations where there is a need, because it is the organs of local self-government that are more visible than Kiev where the hospital is supposed to be. But as for the payment of the cost of medical care, it must still be a guarantee to the State. If this is a guarantee of the State, we cannot properly translate that guarantee into local authority because, as we can see, not every local authority uses it effectively as a result of today’s health and medicine. Thus, in order to ensure equal rights for Ukrainian citizens throughout Ukraine, access to health care is the same and the cost of medical care has to be paid directly from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u227	Thank you. And I ask you to determine by voting. [[13:12:50]] For-35 For 35. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 618. Don't insist. 619. Don't insist. 620. 621. 622. 623rd. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u228	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, monitoring the use of the funds of appropriate budget programs to health care providers, more simply, medical facilities of all types of property and doctors should also be established at the legislative level. The bill provides for State oversight of compliance by health facilities with the requirements set out in the budgeting arrangements and contracts for public health care. However, just how this State oversight of the text of the bill will be carried out is not clear. Therefore, my amendment suggests that it be carried out through planned and nonplanned checks in order to develop the National Health Service and be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u229	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u230	Those issues that you have pointed out are already regulated by the laws of Ukraine, such as State oversight, monitoring of compliance by health service providers, the requirements set by the use of funds are regulated by the Basic Principles of State Financial Control in Ukraine and implemented by the State Audit Service of Ukraine. In addition, the Audit Chamber, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, controls the coming of funds into and use of the State budget, each central executive body has a structural unit responsible for monitoring the use of budgetary funds by the institutions in its administration. So your amendment is rejected if there is no need to address these issues in addition to the legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u231	Thank you. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[13:14:59]] For-29 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 626, 62. What's that? Please, National Deputy Donzo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u232	624.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u233	624th. Please, National Deputy Donzo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u234	I ask that article 15 be supplemented by the following: "The quality of medical care providers and the systematic analysis of the conditions, results, periods and effectiveness of the provision of medical services and medical services to patients has been carried out by the central executive authority to ensure the formation of public health policy." I'm asking you to put this amendment to a vote, and I'm asking you to go back to one of the right hands on which I raised my hand, but you didn't see this, after this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u235	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u236	Your amendment is essentially fully included in the bill. Directly in Amendment No. 617, in the definition of Article 12, "Controlling the enforcement of legislation on State financial guarantees for medical services, monitoring the quality of the provision of medical services to providers of medical services and systematic analysis of the results and effectiveness of medical services and medical resources is carried out by the central executive authority that ensures the formation of public health policies, i.e. the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u237	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yeah? Please vote. [[13:16:54]] For-40 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 627. National MP Amazanov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u238	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. 627 the amendment says that, unfortunately in this editorial, the editorial that we are currently considering, which the committee has adopted, is not defined, what exactly is the responsibility of the one who is going to violate the legislation on State financial guarantees, since it states here that they are responsible under the law? What exactly is the law, the new adopted, the new one that will be adopted, or the law that we are considering is completely unclear? So that way we can now, at the legislative level, completely relieve people from the responsibility of people who might hypothetically violate this legislation in the future. That's why I'm proposing to change this to "not administrative, civil, disciplinary and criminal responsibility in a manner defined" not by law, but by "the legislation of Ukraine" so that we don't limit the legislative responsibility that can arise for violating certain rules in financial purchases of medical supplies and the provision of medical services. So please support this amendment, please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u239	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u240	Yes, I insist on a committee that clearly states that those who are guilty of violating the legislation on State financial guarantees of public health care are responsible under the law. Why not on the basis of legislation? I'll explain, legislation is also a sub-legislative act. So if we're talking about codes, about administrative responsibility, criminal responsibility, civil responsibility, it's about Ukrainian laws, and it's about ensuring that regulations don't diminish this responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u241	Thank you. Please, do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[13:19:07]] For-29 For - 29. The decision is not made. Next amendment 628. Don't insist. 629th. Please, the People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u242	This bill, once again, creates a precondition for creating an all-U.S. corruption monster that will operate from 70 billion to 80 billion and, in the future, 150 billion dollars of budget money that comes out of the Law on Prices and Prices. And this COVV itself is going to distribute these funds to all medical institutions, under an incomprehensible mechanism, and it's going to put the entire medical sector, the family doctors, the infirmary, the FAP, the district hospitals on their knees. At the same time, it forms financing conditions, it defines the cost-of-service methodology itself and the service structure itself, it carries out financing, it carries out cost-of-use audits. Who will control this COW? The ILO draft should have laid down a separate body to monitor the quality of the provision of medical services under the State guarantee programme. And once again, the 6327 law is not the law of any kind of reform, I ask you to introduce Law 7065 into the Hall, which supports the unions and the entire medical field, please put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u243	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u244	I want to point out that it's with the committee's amendments that we've ruled out the whole quality control function of medical services from the powers of this body, the central executive authority just to prevent certain abuses and possible corruption. I would also like to point out that many doctors throughout Ukraine are supporting the medical reform that we are discussing with you right now. And what you're saying about today's state of medical institutions all over Ukraine again gives us reason not to engage in political populism but to unite and adopt the quality bill that we're discussing with you right now. By the way, your personal amendments have entered into the text of this bill, as have the amendments of other national MPs of all the political forces in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u245	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:21:46]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 630. Please: People's Deputy Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to make this amendment confirmatory for what reason? In the first reading, the law contained a clear rule on the deadlines for the introduction of the law, the primary line of medicine had been introduced the following year, and the whole scope of the reform had been introduced since 2021. And that's justified, relatively easier to do on the primary chain where the system works, the money goes to the patient. A much more sophisticated specialized medical care that requires extensive technical training. Nor is it a secret that the public and the medical, population reform did not understand; even in this room, not all colleagues understood it. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm and keep the standards that were in the first reading about the clear deadlines for entering into force of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u247	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u248	I ask you to confirm and vote in favour of the amendment of the committee in order to keep it in the text of the bill and it reads as follows: "that this bill takes effect a month after the date of its publication and is in effect as of 1 January 2018 only for the original link" further the second level of medical care since 2019 and since 2020 all types of medical care should follow the new principle of financing and payment of medical care, please support and vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u249	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:23:47]] For-53 The decision is not made. The next 631 doesn't insist. 632 does not insist. 633 does not insist. 634 does not insist. 635, no insistence. 636 does not insist. 637 doesn't insist. 638 does not insist. 639, don't insist. 645, please don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 644, please, National Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u250	Sergey Melniczuk, non-fractional. 644 revisions in case we failed 630, it's actually not going to work. So we're putting it on confirmation, and we're not voting on it, which is actually operating in an anti-constitutional, anti-national law. And let the Ukrainian people know and hear that this bill, which is paid by Soros, leads the country to "pharmaceutical wash," not to serve the Ukrainian people for good. And he's hiding it inside the country that's doing it. And all of this corruption team that's now cruising, cruising and robbing the Ukrainian nation, they have to answer. And those who are standing on the street need to know who will vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u251	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u252	I have nothing to comment on about anything that doesn't exactly apply to the text of the bill. And as for the amendment, I'm asking you to support amendment number 644. It refers directly to the fact that from the beginning of 2018, from the beginning of the year, citizens of the State began to pay the primary medical care line to start at the cost of the State’s prevention, diagnosis and treatment of family medicine doctors, pediatricians, and therapists of all the medical care that patients need when they come to the primary health care system. So please support amendment 644, which is important in the committee's drafting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u253	Thank you and vote, please. The committee supports. [[13:26:26]] For-54 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 645. Don't insist. 646. Don't insist. 647. Don't insist. 648. Don't insist. 650. Please, the People's Deputy Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, in all the countries where health care reform has taken place, have always started with piloting. With this permission, I propose that the Ministry of Health and the Cabinet of Ministers demonstrate the success of this reform in the pilot region in order for them to be in one separate area, preferably the Winnitz area, because from here the Prime Minister will hear that it will be there to begin the reform. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be made for confirmation. You can't experiment on the whole country. Reform needs to be made socially fair to people and bills 2409, 7065, and compulsory health insurance should be passed. Please place an amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u255	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u256	I want to point out that the essence of the possibility of creating pilot projects is set out in the bill. And I want to read what that sounds like in terms of the bill that we're looking at right now. During 2018-19 years, the implementation of State guarantees for public health care under the health guarantees programme can take place through the implementation of pilot projects for appropriate types of medical services, such as individual regions, population centres and individual health institutions. So these are essentially fully included in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u257	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:28:40]] For-33 The decision is not made. Next 651st. Don't insist. 652-2. Don't insist. 653rd. Don't insist. 654th. Don't insist. 655th. Don't insist. 655th, please, the People's Deputy of Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u258	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, you know, and the law, more specifically, and the law, which took into account the law of several national MPs, members of the committee, says in itself that this bill has not actually decided and does not solve all the problems of free medicine in our country. Because while I was still in my papers insisting that we should expand and improve the list of services that will be provided to our citizens free of charge, it was imperfect. And this rule, which is now contained in this bill, is already confirmed. Because it says that some pilot projects are being implemented gradually for other forms of medical care. Pilot projects, that's always nice. But we must set up a complete list for our citizens, Ukrainians, free of charge, free of charge. So that our citizens can be treated peacefully, not piloted projects, to train and train them. So I would like to suggest that this paragraph should be deleted and that the standard that sets the list of services free of charge is developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u259	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u260	I want to mention the report that the law clearly defines and this does not apply to pilot projects, this applies to all of Ukraine, to all citizens of Ukraine, that the primary level of medical care, emergency medical care, second, third level of medical care, medical rehabilitation, provision of medical care to children under 16 years of age, pregnancy and childbirth will be paid. This is all a clearly defined rule of law that is not bound to possible pilots, which is provided in the "Transitional and Final Positions" of the bill. So please read the bill carefully. And the list of services directly will be included in the government budget of Ukraine each year. And you and I, as national deputies, have to do everything we can to ensure that the list of services is as wide as possible to cover as many medical services as possible on the part of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u261	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:31:34]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 656. Don't insist. 657th. Don't insist. 658th. Don't insist. 663rd. Don't insist. 665th. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven. Don't insist. 671. Don't insist. 672. Don't insist. 673. Don't insist. 681. Please. Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, we're talking about moving from one funding model to another, moving from the maintenance system to the service payment system. Unfortunately, the law provides for two models. Save for some institutions a special list, which will be made up of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in addition to paying for the services of a separate budget support system. Well, it can't be because it goes against the idea of reform. So I would like to vote on my amendment, which provides that since the transition to additional services, other additional funding from the budget is not being carried out. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u263	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u264	I want to point out that there are forensics and medical institutions that run them. And there are also pathological anatomical bureaux that have to preserve the funding that exists in them right now. And it's the payment of medical services and the provision of state-funded medical assistance in all the forms of property and all the levels that are in our country that will build the most effective model of funding and guarantees for the patients of our state. So the committee rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u265	Thank you. Please determine how to vote. [[13:33:56]] For-39 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 682. Don't insist. 683. Don't insist. 686. Don't insist. And 84, I'm sorry, it's counted. Please, please. You insist on 864. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, Andrew Amazanov, the People's Front faction. It's taken into account, but I'd like to point out that we don't have to talk in this bill about the fact that we do pay for medicine. We don't need to scare our people. When we write, really, that from a certain year, from a certain point of time it's going to be paid, it's going to go to some tariffs and so on, we shouldn't do that, we have to implement the norms of the Constitution. And if we're saying that we don't have a mechanism in the state right now, how exactly free medicine exists, we need to develop this quality document, a quality tool that will allow our Constitution to be implemented and our citizens to be cured. I'm asking you to look very qualitatively at this bill, and we see that there are almost no people in the room right now, and it's very bad that the national MPs don't care about the absolute fate of our medicine. I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u267	Thank you. Next amendment number 686. Don't insist. 688. Don't insist. 690. Don't insist. 694. Don't insist. 698 revisions. Don't insist. 697. Please, National Deputy Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u268	Sergey Melniczuk, non-fractional. They want to amend the Ukrainian Health Protection Act in 93. It's written down exactly how the service will be financed. But no one says that in all the legislation that we are now. The bill that we're looking at right now is not written anywhere, but what about those protected articles about utilities, about electricity, where it's going to be given, who's going to pay for it. You're just paying for the services, and who's gonna keep the premises where all this is going to happen? So put it on confirmation, I think you need it. You don't have to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u269	Thank you. And I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u270	I would like to comment that a colleague who is constantly trying to exclude important articles from the bill is just another attempt to do everything possible so that the law of Ukraine, which I believe will be voted in this room, will be ineffective and imperfect. So I ask you to confirm this amendment, it is extremely important for the substance and content of the bill. What is involved in the payment of utilities. I want to remind you that last year the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of transferring municipal health services to local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u271	Thank you. Please determine how to vote. The committee supports. [[13:37:57]] For-53 For 53. The decision is not made. Amendment 698. Don't insist. Amendment 699. Don't insist. Amendment number 700. Don't insist. Please, People's Deputy Pinzenik, I can't just hear you. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u272	Madam Chairman, I am. 691 revisions, I'm in the hall. But I didn't get the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u273	I sounded 691. Well, please. I ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, imagine that you came to the store, bought bread, paid for it, and besides the payment of bread you require some payment, well that's nonsense, it can't be, you can't baptize a hedgehog and a snake, none of this good will happen. The idea of reform is to move to the payment of services, and the rule of law on which I have made an application provides, in addition to the payment of services, that local budgets have the right to carry out additional funding for medical facilities, that is not reform, that is not possible, that is contrary to the idea of reform. So I'm asking you to put in my order to delete this funding rule from the moment you go to full pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u275	Thank you. Please comment on the 691 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u276	I want to point out that in the whole concept of this bill, your amendment has been fully taken into account that the authorities of local self-government can, in their competence, fund local programs, give people medical services over the list that will be paid by the party by the state. These may be individual population categories, these may be additional medical services, i.e. it may be to the discretion of local self-government authorities that additional payments may be settled for the citizens of the areas concerned, whether or not other matters pertaining to medical care in medical institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u277	Do you insist on voting? Please vote, Amendment 691. [[13:40:33]] For-52 The decision is not made. Amendment No. 702. Please, National Deputy Beresenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u278	In recent years, with progress, our society has suffered from the negative effects of harmful habits that worsen health and productivity: alcoholism, drug abuse, obesity, and a life - style that is not moving. According to WHO, mass consumption from fast food and sweet gas drinks, preferring to sit behind a pocket, before walking on fresh and active rest, causes obesity, cardiovascular disease and cancer. The introduction and promotion of healthy lifestyles, reduced harm, and healthy food are important steps in the way of prevention and disease prevention. Therefore, I propose that the basics of health legislation be complemented with an appropriate concept, and that was what my amendment was, that it was not taken into account, and I ask that it be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u279	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u280	Dear colleague, I fully agree with the nature and content of your amendment to the need for a healthy lifestyle, to the limitations of smoking and everything you just said. But your amendment does not refer at all to the content of the bill on financial guarantees in the area of health care and the corresponding payment. So your amendment is just technically excluded from the content of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u281	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[13:42:18]] For-28 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 703. Don't insist. Number 704. Don't insist. Number 705. Don't insist. Number 706. Don't insist. Number 707. Don't insist. Number 708. Don't insist. Number 709. Don't insist. Number 711. Don't insist. Number 714. Don't insist. Number 719. Don't you insist? What's that? 712, please. National MP Korchinska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u282	Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! This bill is the first real attempt to change our security system and stop a patient from being held hostage, it shouldn't be a medical request to doctors. This bill is finally the only right decision now, the money going after the patient, the competition for the patient. It's about what we've already done a lot, that free care is provided to babies under 16 years of age, secondary and third levels. Here we have the idea that the State guarantees free medical care at public, municipal health institutions with epidemiological evidence. The State also guarantees free medical and forensic expertise in the established order of legislation. Thank you very much, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u283	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u284	Yes, I would like to thank the National MP and say that your amendment is taken into account in an editorial way and is essentially the bill that we are currently considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u285	You insist, don't you? Oh, no? Okay. Next amendment number 719. Don't insist. And 734. Don't insist. 739. Don't insist. 752. Don't insist. Yes, 752. Don't insist. 754. Don't insist. 757. Don't insist. 759th, please, the People's Deputy of Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u286	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, the drafting of this law, this project, the rules of law sound like that state assessment of medical technology and so on, is being carried out by a specialized state non-profit agency and so on. I have a simple question: It may be enough to create intermediate, auxiliary, specialized organs. We have the Ministry of Health, unfortunately we do not yet have a minister of health, yet we do not have a full structure. Perhaps we can eliminate the Ministry of Health, create a host of intermediate organs that will assess how our citizens are being treated, how they are being treated, where they are being bought, and so on. We're not going to need this organ at all. So let us now write that the Ministry of Health, as the central authority in this field, should evaluate, do its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u287	Thank you. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u288	Comment, Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u289	I would like to point out that in this bill, we are clearly shaping the standard for the development of industry standards in the field of health, for the state assessment of medical technologies to be carried out in order to be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to point out that for the first time in law, we introduce the concept of "as an assessment of medical technologies" and it is extremely important to control the quality of medical care. But at the same time, we've been limiting these functions to the functions of a government authority that will be managed by government funds. And this is a very important change and the essence of this bill that the government authority that will pay for medical services at medical institutions will only be the budget manager. The issue of control, management, and quality assessment should be followed by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers accordingly, either by the Ministry of Health or by other government authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u290	I'm asking you to add time to complete the answer. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u291	either the Ministry of Health or any other government body that decides solely by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this is their mandate, and it's the law that gives them that opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u292	Thank you. Thus, the amendment of the 759 People’s Deputy of Amazanova is put to the vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. We'll support Anointed, colleagues, please vote. [[13:48:07]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next is 772, Korczynska. Turn on the microphone, please. 772, Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u293	I am so grateful to our colleague, Irina Sisoyenko, that she is so responsible right now for the real changes in the country’s health system. And now our bill is not supported by those doctors who have been writing to the patient for decades on unproven drugs. They write them out, they give them prescriptions, and then every month they go after what's called "return" in these pharmacies to get that percentage of those drugs that are unprovable. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. In this case, adapted clinical instructions are developed and approved by the central executive body, which ensures the formation of public health policies in the field of evidence medicine. We've actually put it in a different form, but we'd like to support the principle that on the basis of evidentiary medicine. This is our phase of transition to international protocols.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u294	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Irina, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u295	Yes, I would like to point out that the new standards introduced by this bill are extremely important because the state assessment of medical technologies is that it is not yet being implemented in our state. So the introduction of these new norms, the adoption of this new law, should also create both new mechanisms for the implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution on free medical care and at the same time create new principles for the work of executive authorities, including the authorization of the Ministry of Health for the formation and timely approval of clinical protocols, the formation of quality assessments of medical technologies, everything that our country does not yet exist. So thank you, fellow MP, for your active work, and your amendment is included in the text of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u296	Thank you, but I understand Mrs. Oksana insists on voting. And, colleagues, I'm betting on a vote of 772, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. Vote. [[13:50:52]] For-31 The decision is not taken. So next, 776th. Don't insist. 787. Anointing. Turn on the microphone, Anointed. Please state your position on medical reform, Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u297	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Actually, the second day we're looking at this bill. I understand there's no interest in MPs at all. Many of my rights, which have been passed and served wisely, have tried to improve the medical situation, with the medical care of our citizens, have not been taken into account. There have been many different kinds of discussions, information, but unfortunately, we can see that not all things have been taken into account today. And when we talk about again trying to create the only body that will manage the money allocated to the budget, and we know that the next budget is already marked by the creation of a new body that has a lot of money to pay for treatment. Many millions, right, much more than others, to a new body that is not actually created, I say that such an organ is not necessary. And we should place most of the demands on the Ministry of Health. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u298	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u299	That's my position. And I think a lot of colleagues will support that we don't need to keep an organ now that doesn't have a handler and actually doesn't have the basic position that it can't prove, but it can just create some linings and mediators. I'm not asking you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u300	Mrs. Irina, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u301	Yes, I would like to point out that the first reading proposed by the Ministry of Health included the creation of a central executive body with special status. With the amendments of the people’s deputies, we changed this rule. And the current draft of the bill defines that this should simply be an authorized body, which would be the body: whether the Ministry of Health, or the Ministry of Finance, as the budget manager, will make contractual relations with hospitals, or any other state authority already in existence, is solely the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the decision of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. So it is by law that we do not have to define as a government what is their direct authority. So by law, we've removed any special and special status, and we're saying that this is an authorized body. And what kind of organ would that be, I think, exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u302	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u303	The government will make such decisions directly by its decisions. As for the bill that we are now adopting, it is formed on the basis of changes and amendments by the people's deputies, including you, many of your amendments, I thank you for this, included in the text of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u304	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 787 of the People's Deputy of Amazanova. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:54:48]] For-55 The decision is not taken. They didn't. Next. 788th, Moses. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put on record what you've ruled out, unfortunately, is completely incompetent people, including those who are now in the process of reporting this bill, who don't know what clinical protocols are, what clinical instructions are. And what, as medical care is provided according to these clinical instructions and clinical protocols. They're actually being treated for a pattern that's prescribed in the primary part of the bill. Therefore, it would certainly be necessary not to exclude this part. And I want to say what's going on right now, all of us and the Ukrainian people are witnesses, a show not to vote for medical reform. Realizing that there are no national MPs in the hall, and there are no leaders, and there are those national deputies who place absolutely no claim on confirmation, they are not interested in the work of the Supreme Council. And we are witnessing that instead of voting on important bills, we are artificially delaying the adoption today of a bill that should be voted on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u306	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u307	That's why it's very important to know to the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian people that this is going to be the artificial extension and non-vote of those important bills that are still on our agenda. Clearly, there may be arrangements for tomorrow. But I am asking for confirmation because it concerns the mechanism for providing medical care in the form of the clinical protocols that must be. As you provide it, please explain without clinical protocols.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u308	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Irina, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u309	I want to tell the reporter that I forgive you for the systematic and regular slanders that you allow at my address. What I want to stress about your amendment is that there are rules on clinical protocols, on standards, on sectoral medical standards, what is now in the norms of the current legislation of Ukraine. All of these standards are fully preserved by this bill and are preserved by the rules of law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u310	So the honourable colleagues, I stress, are now proposing that we vote on Amendment 788 for confirmation. It was appointed by Moses ’ deputy. I would like to point out that the committee supports the amendment, and he took it into account. And who supports the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-18-m0.u311	That's what I'm saying. No, he counted, counted. You were betting on confirmation, I understand? And so I propose to the people's deputies to vote. So a colleague who supports the position of the committee votes in favour. This is simply to be understood. I am voting to confirm amendment 788 of the Sisoyenko People's Deputies, on the proposal of the Musia People's Deputies for confirmation. Whoever supports the committee's position votes in favour. Please vote and please identify yourself. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:58:41]] For-48 The decision is not taken. So, dear colleagues, we've stopped at 788 amendments. I want to remind you that in general, reform has 891 rights, if I'm right. 893. This gives us reason, colleagues, we all have reason to expect that tomorrow we will be able to reach a decision on medical reform rather quickly, to move on to the issue of the removal of parliamentary immunity. And I want to address all the members of the Legal Policy Committee. Today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. I am now making a public appeal to all members of the committee, to attend a meeting that will consider two bills on the removal of parliamentary immunity. I don't think we should let the quorum break today on the committee. I'm sure all the members of the committee can hear me and all the committee members will come to meetings to ensure its constructive, effective and effective work. Mr. Ruslan. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, Mr. Ruslan, I wish you a successful committee. To all the heads of the committees today, I wish for fruitful and successful work. I would like to stress my morning position that all members of the national parliament should have full access tomorrow. Tomorrow will be a difficult day, tomorrow will be a very important day for each vote in fact. And that's why I'm calling on all the people's deputies today, working actively on the committees, to arrive tomorrow at 10 a.m. for a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am confident that tomorrow will be an important and successful day not only for the Supreme Council of Ukraine but for Ukraine as a whole. Mrs. Irina, thank you for your report, for your work. Thank you to the authors for their work rights. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. Thank you.
