ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please be prepared for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:05:11]] 350 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Guys, we're having our friends' birthday today. To Yuri Mikolaiovich Berezi, welcome to Mr. Yuri's birthday. Hello, my friend! [[Applause]] Igor Anatolyovich Didenko. [[Applause]] Mikoli Wolodimirovich Lušnjak. Hello. [[Applause]] Ivan Ivanovich Melnichuk has it. Let's welcome Mr. John. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, messages. I would like to point out that today is a performance by national deputies, not by factions, so please prepare to be recorded. And please record the performance. Please, colleagues. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u2	I give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Opposition Block of Beche's Lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u3	Batecheva, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian people! My statement today is the cry of the soul, the pain and the horror of what is happening to health. It's a disaster in the industry today. It's enough to go to the hospital to understand the magnitude of the tragedy. The health system does not even meet the basic needs of society. It has become impossible for people to receive quality and timely medical care. These problems are exacerbated by space tariffs for utilities, which consume all the money of the population without leaving any funds for treatment. The statistics are shocking, respected people's deputies, and in 2015 Ukraine took second place in the world in terms of mortality. We have 85 people dying every day. In front of us is the African country of Lesotho, where they die. Life expectancy is 37 years. WHO named Ukraine the most backward country in Europe at the level of diphtheria vaccination in 2016. This underfunding of the Ukrainian industry has not been known in 25 years of independence. As a result, this end of funding for important programmes, projects, does not buy medical equipment, medicines, vaccines, expendable materials. The ILO leadership is directly responsible for the collapse of the industry and for today's health catastrophe. Perhaps the Acting Minister is now deliberately still living in America from where she recently arrived. What is this experiment with the transfer of medicines, vaccines, the purchase of international organizations that take significant interest in their services? In 2015 we paid 110 million, in 2016 200 million, in 2017 we paid 300 million dollars. What are we paying for? For the failure of procurement, for the disruption of delivery schedules, for the condemnation of the lives of thousands of Ukrainians, who are the main taxpayers. Today, our health is not sustained thanks but contrary to the leadership of the ILO. I want to say, thank you very much to all the health workers who are working today on poverty pay, operating, saving lives, and providing urgent assistance. Our doctors are the best in the world, unfortunately they're going abroad and they're needed there today. Thank you. I thank all the people's deputies for their uncompromising position on the open and honest speech of everyone today and yesterday, and always what is done in health care. This has to be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Tetian. Please welcome to the floor Mr. Kuprey, the non-fractional national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I wanted to raise the issue of land corruption today, corruption in such a large institution as the Ministry of Agropolitics. A few years ago, after the Dignity Revolution, an employee like Maxim Martinyuk was assigned to this position, the right hand of Vladimir Groysman. Last year he was promoted, and instead of leading the geocadastra, he became the first deputy minister of agropolitics. Despite the loud and loud statements made by Vladimir Groysman that he would show us how to rule the state, this figure has already proved that there will be no change in the situation. Upon taking office, he forced the heads of the geocadastral regional divisions to renew their corruption schemes, to give the land to the land under untransparent conditions, taking away the ATO soldiers. We have clear evidence that the head of the Geocadastrom Geocadastro Vasil Vasil Vasilko has provided dozens of hectares of land in violation of existing legislation, and this has clearly been approved by leader Maxim Martinyuk. There is a mass of court rulings that have declared the leader’s actions illegal in Volina, but Maxim Martinyuk has not acted. Instead, he was granted indulgence to release any person assigned to positions in the geocastrian. How does he do it: he takes off their applications for release without a date, for release at his own request; then comes the time when the manager refused to enter into corruption schemes, did not share, maybe I don't know, became unpopular, he pulls out of the closet this statement, puts on it the stamp that it was adopted today, and people are mass-free. Thus, last summer, ten regional geocaders were released at one of the meetings in the Dnipropetrov region in one day. After that, they appealed to the court, resumed, received executive direction, presented him to Martinyuk, but in violation of the criminal code, as if this was done for the purpose of the crime, he did not do so. I am now addressing the leadership of the National Police, and Vladimir Groysman wrote a statement in order for him to perform a service inspection and enforce the requirements of the law, and respected the public service. And such ones must be released from their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. Colleagues, our fellow MPs are with you. It's very difficult to speak from the rostrum when there's such a noise in the hall. Please, let us honor each other and give opportunities and hear and speak in a more peaceful atmosphere. Kisse, a national MP, gives his colleague the word of Golly. Please, Mr. Walking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u8	Good day to you all! Vassili Gulyaev, 140 constituency, Odessa District, Rebirth Party. Today, I would like to raise a topic that does not sound so often from this rostrum, but rather comes to the fore. There is no secret that our young Ukrainian families have little support from the State. They only have to hope for themselves. Do you know what's happening in reality? There is no support for social children, which today is more acute than ever. I'd like to get some numbers. In 2016, Ukrainians fell by 160,000 compared to 2015. Mortality exceeds 30 per cent birth rate. And you know, it gets worse every year. And why is that? Because prices are rising much faster than wages. Unemployment in us. And there are no social benefits, no social reserves to be provided to the population. In this regard, the MP's Rebirth Party advocates an effective scale. Effective large-scale payments to the population. The Parliamentary Group "The Rebirth Party" has also drafted a bill that will be supported by State support for young families. In particular, child care fees will be reimbursed, which were cancelled as early as 2014. She'll be back, too. Free travel for children, nutrition for children and schoolchildren. The MP's Rebirth Party is confident that, of course, there is a need to save money and watch it. But you don't have to save money on Ukrainian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u9	Thank you for the talk. The people's deputy from the Opposition Block is invited to the floor. I understand that Yuri Paulenko Dunaev is speaking. Please, Mr. Danube.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u10	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! For more than two years, the people of Ukraine have been teaching them the hope of improving their well-being. Endless promises are made by the power in force, but everything is done exactly the opposite. Political intrigue has the whole country, and Donbass loses human life, industrial resources and the opportunity to be a worthy participant in economic relations both within the country and in the international arena every day. The situation in the Donetsk region can also take place in the north of Luhansk, where more than one million cells live. The only source of electricity, Happy TES, at any moment, could be out of shape as a result of the exacerbation of the military conflict. For more than two years, our faction, on behalf of the inhabitants of Luhansk, has claimed to be a technogenic environmental threat. Just now, Ukrenergo has launched a tender for the construction of the electricity lines that are needed today. This will enable the area to be connected to Ukraine's single energy system. The opposition bloc faction requires the Ministry of Energy to take control of the issue and report thereon. Every day we lose our position in both the region and the country. Without an additional source of energy, large industrial enterprises cannot operate at full capacity. In addition, jobs have declined in two and a half years, according to the International Labour Organization alone, the unemployment rate in the country is about one and a half million people, both in the light of the tariff genocide and the irresponsibility of the leadership of a country that takes billions of dollars of credit and signs a memorandum with the IMF, thereby making us and our children debtors for many years. For the past two years, we as a nation have become more poor than three times, as Ovidius said: "The poor is laid all over." As before, we continue to lose our scientific potential. Young professionals travel to other countries because there are no basic conditions for scientific and creative work. It is now essential to restore our economy, to seek new economic ties, and the Government must not live separately from the people. A million 600,000 of our citizens cannot exercise their rights under the main Act, the Constitution of Ukraine. This fact also applies to the inhabitants of the peaceful territories. Each of us is convinced that war leads only to destruction, death, and chaos. We need a peaceful solution to the Donbass conflict. Only the “normal format” can lead to the implementation of the peace plan. Donbass residents address the international community, the OSCE, the UN, the representatives of the Normandy Quartet and the political forces to resolve the conflict only peacefully. In a developed legal State, there is always a person as the highest value, not a resource, for personal purposes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Melniczuk. No, he's giving the word to his colleague, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u12	Vladimir Litwin, Žitomirščina, People's Party. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Among the letters and references that, say, he received directly in the district and through the mail in the last week, which is more than five decades, the confession of a pensioner who wrote: "The confession of a retired person from the Chernivian region." 78 years old, 44 years of work and a thousand 572 dollars of pension, 850 dollars of subsidies are utility. And he asks at the end of his confession, his letter, "Why did I live to this time?" And those words can be said today by millions of pensioners who have actually been abandoned. At the same time, we've talked to you about the unsettled utility tariffs, we've forgotten and spoken patriotic slogans, thinking that people will tolerate this political rhetoric that we're covering up, in fact, our irresponsibility. Next problem. Here, in this session hall, you have made a decision, according to which municipal services and the payment of auxiliary technical staff in the education and health facilities have been translated into the local budget. Yes, there are areas that can withstand this burden, but there are depressed areas, and we don't see the subsidies coming. What are they doing here? The health and school facilities began to be closed again. Imagine, the district of Pullin, the village of Kurne, almost 100 students -- they made the decision to shut down so that there would be no closure of three other schools and no destruction. How to treat such politics to ordinary citizens. In terms of war, I don't think we can handle them anymore. So I am convinced that we must make a decision and comply with the requirements of the Constitution. If the law delegates authority to local authorities, it is also a financial resource. And there are so many of these problems. I am not talking about health care. The population is dying. There are no transport connections to get to the hospital. Instead, hospital districts are now being invented, which are completely out of line with the possibilities and needs for basic health care. I believe that these and other questions should be the subject of our attention and our principled responsible decisions. Otherwise, I must say that no one needs such a Supreme Council. To drool about the same topics that we hear every day, to compete in patriotism and do nothing about it, is an absolutely irresponsible position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the representative of the opposition block, Sergey Kiwalov. Ah, he gives the word to his colleague Vilukulu. Please, Mr. Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u14	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Each Ukrainian experienced a three-year tariff genocide. The key issue why we did not vote in favour of the State Budget Act 2017 was that our proposal to lower tariffs was not taken into account twice. And it's not populism, it's totally realistic. From 2010 to 2014, tariffs were not raised by a single penny, achieved by energy saving and by compensating the difference in tariffs. In order to reduce public tariffs twice, 20 billion fines are required from tariffs. I can tell you that 150 billion were found in one day when it was necessary to nationalize Private Bank. Is this real? It's absolutely real. We were told that subsidies were a panacea. In doing so, we pointed out in the adoption of the budget that only 49.6 billion grants are included in the law with the minimum necessary 102 billion. We said that either the subsidy would stop or the category of beneficiaries would decrease dramatically. It turns out that power and government have gone one way and the other. The Cabinet adopted Decree No. 51 of 6 February of that year, which reduced the social standards of heat, gas and electricity consumption on which these subsidies depend. This means that the money that should have gone to the grant from 1 May will again be raised from every Ukrainian from each of our families. In particular, from 1 May, the gas consumption rate has been reduced by 10 per cent from 5.5 cubic metres to 5 cubic metres. Electricity standards, the social standard is reduced by 22 per cent, from 65 kilowatts per hour to 51 kilowatts per hour. In central heating and heat meters houses, the hygocalorie standard has been reduced by 22 per cent. In doing so, I would like to point out that over the past three years, the Government has reduced the social standard of gas consumption from 11 cubes to 5 cubes already, more than twice. During the current heating season, people complained that today's social standards were not enough and that they were wearing 3 sports suits, buckets, to obtain a grant. What will this decline mean for an ordinary person? The State only subsidizes the amount of services that does not exceed the social standard. The grant will not be abolished, but all that will be consumed above this amount of gas, electricity and water will have to be paid further. Let me just give you an example, we did the math. For a family of two pensioners with a combined income of 3,000,700 bracelets and a house of 60 square metres, an additional 332 bracelets will have to be paid for gas only because the subsidy will be reduced. And given that in colds like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u15	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u16	So in fact, people besides three suits will have to put on hats, blankets and overcoats or freeze in their homes. Debt for public tariffs is on the rise. There were eight billion at the beginning of the year, and now more.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u17	Thank you. I just want a lot of people to be there. Please, Oleg Light from the Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing Ukrainian citizens who now have the opportunity to either watch or listen to Parliament meetings. According to our information, the authorities have prepared a draft memorandum with the International Monetary Fund to be signed shortly by the President, the head of the government, the head of the National Bank and the minister of finance. This new memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, which requires our country to receive a billion-dollar tranche of credit, exposes itself to an entirely draconian condition in exchange for receiving that loan. In particular, the memorandum provides for the sale of agricultural land, an increase in the retirement age for Ukrainian citizens, rather than an increase in pensions, which the Radical Party insists on. The cost of education, of medicine, is also reduced. When hospitals, schools are closed today and three hospitals are left in the area after or after twenty schools, tomorrow and after one hospital will not be in the area with such policies. In addition, the continued increase in tariffs, the restrictions on other social benefits, the conservation of Ukraine, in fact, as a raw material supplement, as a "banana republic". I am firm and our political power, the Radical Party, we insist that similar documents are not allowed to be signed by the authorities in secret. Neither the President, nor the Prime Minister, nor any other official can decide the fate of the Ukrainians without consulting the Ukrainians themselves who brought them to power. So the requirements of our team are for the President and the government. Immediately publicly, with the participation of the leaders of the faction of Parliament, the political forces will discuss a draft memorandum ready to be signed. Because then, to implement this memorandum, the government will submit bills to the Supreme Council and to sell land, and to increase retirement age. That's why we think that this issue should be publicly discussed by political leaders, by the public, by the press. And here's our offer. We think that the question of increasing the retirement age and selling the land is a question of the future Ukrainian citizens and of the Ukrainian state. We suggest that these two issues be put to the U.K. referendum, let the Ukrainians decide whether retirement age should be increased, and should the land be sold? The Radical Party has proposed a strategy for overcoming poverty, which is not about selling land and increasing retirement age, but about creating jobs for Ukrainians, overcoming poverty, creating conditions for economic growth through the support of a national producer. We urge the Ukrainians to discuss our strategic plan for overcoming poverty in Ukraine, Ukraine deserves a job and a decent life.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. John Ribak, the representative of the "Peter Prashenko" faction. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u20	Ivan Ribak, Cherniewec district, 202 constituency. Today, I would like to raise the issue of the problems facing Ukraine’s mountainous areas. In fact, the problem is that many people in the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, and other ministries today do not understand the trials that people living in the Chernobyl region, Johno-Frankivsky and Zacarpathian or Lvivsky are facing. In fact, thoughtless policies regarding the establishment of hospital districts in these regions will lead to the prospect that we will not talk about providing quality health care to the inhabitants of the regions concerned, nor will we talk about providing such services at all. With regard to the question of the creation of schools of support, the issue of education. Because there is the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements, which ensures that quality education is provided to children living in suitable mountain areas. What do we have today? Today, we have a situation where we have to get the children on busses to support schools from other locations. But we do have another problem facing the mountaineers today. As an example in Putilski, Vidinicka, or Strážinetski district of the Cherniewec region, the absolute absence of roads is not the absence of road coverage between the Carpathian villages, but the absolute absence of roads. We have to worry about the Cabinet of Ministers today so that additional funds can be allocated directly to rural roads so that the program that was created in 2008 by the Cabinet of Ministers will work. But unfortunately, today we have just zero tape in our budget right on the question of rural roads. I would like to ask a particular question about the creation of a united community in the region of Chernobyl. We have faced the fact that many rural and rural heads today do not want to form united communities, do not want to support the decentralization reform that the president, government, and parliament are working on today. I would like to thank those rural village heads of the Province and the Watch Tower who have united and are already taking the first steps to ensure that communities, capable communities, are able to develop accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the representative of the Rebirth Party, Mr. Kulinic. Let's have a word with you. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u22	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Last week I worked in the district, communicated with people, and received many complaints about the health system in our country. The government has abrogated the reform of the establishment of hospital districts. The idea of creating intensive care in every area of the hospital can be logical. For example, in the Poltava region, it is planned to create four hospital districts, one of which is in the city of Mirgrad, which is the center of my constituency. It may be logical that the patient will not have to go to the district center, and he will be able to get medical attention much closer. But given the quality of the roads, I think there's still a lot of work to be done here. In my opinion, first of all, the primary link had to be the FAP, the infirmary, the district hospitals, which are very often in a very terrible state, and then move with the hospital districts. I keep talking to medical staff in the district, most of the infirmary, the FAPah district hospitals, or out of date, or it just doesn't have what it needs. For example, the workplaces of dentists are used for 40 years. The technical condition of many hospitals is unsurpassed: roof problems, they just flow, problems with hot water, problems with sanitation. For example, in the operating block of the Dican District Hospital, I was told, the windows were taped to keep warm in the winter, and in the summer, no one unscathed them, because the air conditioning system is not available, and in the operating block, the flies that we're talking about in the hospital districts may just be leaking into the operating block. So I think we need to solve these problems right away. Most district hospitals need serious repairs. And given the technical condition of these hospitals, I highly doubt that the district budgets will be able to handle it. There's no need for a state subsidy. There's a problem with the frame. For example, there is now a problem that young people do not want to go to rural areas, do not even want to go to district hospitals, and this is because the authorities are willing to provide them with housing. For example, the Zenkow District Hospital has been looking for young specialists for a year, and this is because the district authorities are ready to provide these specialists with housing. These problems, I think we need to decide first, and then talk about the hospital districts. I'm not talking about the terrible state of our roads in the state at all. We have every reform that starts with looking for some kind of advanced experience, and we don't really pay attention to the basic things that we need to do in us. So I think we need to put the primary link -- the infirmary and the FAP into order right now, repair them, provide basic equipment, personnel, and then develop the idea of hospital districts. So I would like to ask Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman and the executive responsibility of health care for Ulysses Suprun with a proposal: to hold a separate meeting of the Cabinet on health issues in our country. We need to take off the tension and get people to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u23	Please, 15 seconds. And then the last one will be speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u24	A separate session of the Cabinet, which is dedicated to the health system in our country, because people need to take away the tension and people need to understand what these reforms are doing, save their jobs or not, and whether this reform will really be better and people will feel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u25	Thank you. Please welcome the representative of the People's Front, National Deputy Timoshenko. Mr. Timoshenko gives the floor to the national deputy Lapin. Three minutes, please let Mr. Lapin speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u26	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, on the backdrop of the situation in the east, some of our colleagues are starting to simply, simply, stupidly pianist, including on many of the points that are really important to the state. I want to pay attention to the so-called economic blockade. You know, I'm definitely against the occupation trade, I'm definitely against smuggling, which is not only on the side of Donetsk and Lugansk, but also on the side of Lviv enters the territory of Ukraine, on the side of Yagodina, which enters Ukraine. I'm against any violations in our country at all. And so if anyone wants to accuse me of being terrorists, I say right now, I'm definitely against the terrorists who are undermining today, including our economy. But I'm noting that the right to regulate any process in the state has a state, and only a state can guarantee the safety of its citizens. I would be delighted if our brothers, who drive so well to the east and hold, do not miss the goods if they make it happen and motivate us all to adopt appropriate laws. And public activists will only be left to control the implementation of these laws in the territory of the State. I understand what a powerful pyar action is for. Maybe we want to distract ourselves from the trash in Lviv, maybe we want to distract ourselves from, really, the urgent needs of our army, but once again, let's work. You look at your Brownie movement, which is now taking place in our parliament walls. Look at the number of deputies who go or don't go to Parliament meetings. I strongly urge you to talk to your colleagues. We've been chosen by people to work here, in Parliament, to adopt laws and to control how these laws are implemented. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u27	Thank you. The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to attend. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Today, he celebrates his birthday as a political prisoner of the Kremlin of Roman Sushchenko. Let's welcome him on his birthday, please, and through his family, through his lawyers, let's give a big welcome to the Ukrainian journalist who is today fighting for Ukraine in Lefortovo for his courage and position. In fact, there's a lot of people in this room who know Roman because he's been working for the last six years at Ukriform State Agency in Paris. And there was no event involving Ukraine or the events in the European Union that took place in France that would not explain the novel. Apparently, he, like other Kremlin political prisoners, was detained for an entirely premeditated reason: for being accused of spying. Just as the alleged charges of terrorism have led to the arrest of Oleg Senzov and Kolchenk, his colleague, who is now being held in Siberia. And imagine not giving them to Ukraine under the pretext that they are citizens of the Russian Federation. Neither Saints nor Colchenko are citizens of the Russian Federation, they are Ukrainians with Ukrainian passports. Today, the Russian Federation has kept at least 10 political prisoners, and in a special case there are more than 30 Crimean Tatars, who have also become Kremlin prisoners and whom Russia is blackmailing Ukraine and the world. Similarly, there are 109 hostages in the occupied territories: they're civilians, they're military, they're men, they're women. And the key to the hostages, whether they're in the occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, including the Makiyiv Colony, where our boys have been sitting for more than two years and they're being held there, is that these are the Kremlin prisoners -- all of these keys are in Putin. You and I have to fight together for the liberation of every Ukrainian, and to do so, we have to increase the pressure on Russia, including by engaging in this important work of the diplomatic corps, by coordinating efforts with the Ukrainian Security Service and by increasing the pressure of the entire world. But I want to talk to my colleagues in this room right now about what each of us can do in this situation where the families of the hostages remain in a very difficult psychological situation and sometimes material situation. We have families to support with, we have special attention to give them, and that's what I want to call for. Recently, for example, Valentin Vygowski’s mother, a Kremlin politician, went on a date with her son, and she said how important it was for him to receive letters from Ukraine. Similarly, Cleech’s mother still does not know where he is being transported. And our consuls are fighting heroically for every opportunity to get to our hostages, because Moscow here, too, is very often simply blocking that access. So in my speech, I want to say this again and again. Our dear ones! Ukraine is fighting for everyone: and those held in Lefortovo prisons today, in colonies in Siberia, in occupied territories. Our job is to set them free. But what can we do with you? This is to increase our pressure on Moscow by joining this international organization and supporting the families of the hostages. Guys, hold on! We thank you for your courage, for being truly Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for speeches by national deputies is over, so let's move on to the agenda. First of all, we have the traditional ones for the middle of the ratification. And I'm going to ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. The first is the proposal, this is the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So the first is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Justice Organization (number 0122), a colleague. And I'm going to put a motion for a reduced procedure to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Justice Organization (No. 0122) under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:44:49]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. Please, Sergey Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. The EU is the EU Council's decision in 2002 and its main objective is to establish cooperation between EU and third countries in the pre-trial investigation of the most important cross-border crimes, such as the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking, human trafficking, cybercrime and other important crimes. Eurojust has the authority to enter into agreements with the third states with which cooperation is most intense. Such agreements are already made with the United States, Switzerland, Norway, Montenegro, Moldova. The deal with Ukraine was signed by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenk, in June of last year and is now being ratified by the Supreme Council. This agreement is needed by Ukraine because the Attorney General's Office is already actively cooperating with Euroust. For 14-16 years, the Attorney General's Office has participated in more than 16 coordination meetings of the Euryust. In particular, a joint investigation team was set up to investigate the collapse of Malaysian Boeing MH17 in the sky over Ukraine. The ratification of this agreement will allow it to be institutionalized, because Ukraine will be given the opportunity to send its representative to The Hague, the place of permanent residence of an organization where a panel of prosecutors who represent their country and help exchange information, to request international legal assistance in criminal matters between countries that are either members of the EU or to enter into an agreement. The corresponding ratification of this agreement will allow much closer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u31	Let me finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u32	Ratification of this agreement will allow for intensified cooperation with the EU in investigating the most important international cross-border crimes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to a report to the deputy head of the Committee on European Integration of Mary Ionouy. Please, Mrs. Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u34	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! As the government representative has just pointed out, the bill aims to implement the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Justice Organization through ratification. The agreement, in turn, should strengthen the national toolkit to deal with serious crimes. The Committee on European Integration at its meeting, having considered Bill 0122 in substance, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. At the same time, draw the subject’s attention to the right of legislative initiative to shortcomings, especially in the accompanying documents. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also made a number of observations, both to the bill itself and to the accompanying documents, which have found their confirmation in the process of its previous work by the committee. Most of them were removed after receiving additional information from the committee. Nevertheless, serious doubts remain about the validity of the individual terms of the Ukrainian-language treaty that is being ratified. So I'm paying attention to what is, really, the problem with terminology. On the other hand, I would like to point out that recent explanatory notes directly to the ratification bills have been more formal traffic supplements to the bill than provide explanations and answers to substantive legislative questions. We would ask interested subjects of the law - enforcement initiative to continue to pay more attention to the matter. With regard to Bill 0122, we ask the Supreme Council to accept it as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u36	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Germany, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u37	I take my word off.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u38	Igor Mosiyczuk. Colleagues, this is the last performance. I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Of course, the Radical Party faction will support this ratification. But I would like now to draw the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian people to the path of so-called Euro-integration that some officials of our Ministry of Justice are conducting. At first, the young donation, which here represented a decision that we are about to make, offered to bring migrants to Ukraine to give us a visa-free regime. Another Deputy Justice Minister, Paul Moroz, who is responsible for the issue of state registration and heads the commission that is called upon to fight the raid, is actually leading a gang of raiders in our country. Because the decision of this commission is to rewrite ownership without a court decision, without consideration, and without prejudice. How and why this is happening, sooner or later he will report to the court. But what Euro-integration can be about when there is no concept of ownership in the country, when it comes to the taking of property from the Korean farmers, when property is copied by a commission, in Kiev, and so on. Therefore, the Radical Party faction believes that a commission should be eliminated, as it is harmful to the Ukrainian nation and to the state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take their jobs. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? Please, please, let's go into the hall. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Organisation for Justice (No. 0122) on the proposal of the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, this is our international commitment. Please vote, colleagues, please support. [[10:53:41]] For 205 Turn on the factions. I'll put the vote again, give the MPs a minute to come. Invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, this is the law, and we have to put it back. There is no political debate on this law, all the factions of Parliament other than the Opposition Block support. I'm asking you to focus, now I'm going to make an offer to return, please, to the workplace. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft ratification law 0122. Please vote, please support. Wait a second. Ready? Vote, colleagues, return to ratification, we support. Please vote, vote. [[10:55:39]] For 230 And now I'm putting the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Organisation for Justice (0122) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, we vote on the basis and in general, we vote. [[10:56:08]] For 230 Decision taken. The law is passed. Next draft of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Cooperation in the Defence Sector (0126). Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[10:56:43]] For-183 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the first Deputy Minister of Defense of Russia, Ivan Stepanovich. Ivan Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u41	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Cooperation in the Defence Sector, done on 5 August 2016. The adoption of the draft act will create the legal basis for Ukrainian-Indonesia cooperation in the field of defence. The ways of cooperation under this agreement may include the exchange of visits, including from the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the development of military and technical cooperation, cooperation in defence industry and logistics, the exchange of information on defence and military matters, the development of military education and training of personnel, other ways of cooperating with mutual agreement between the parties. For the purpose of implementing this agreement, the operational, administrative and technical issues are identified by separate written arrangements made by both parties. The government authorities responsible for the implementation of the agreement are the Ministry of Defence. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. And please invite the head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Hanna Hopko, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u43	Good afternoon, good countrymen, presiding! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 18 January 2017, reviewed the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on cooperation in the defence sector. And I've decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the project and ratify the Agreement. For us, this Agreement is important because it can strengthen bilateral cooperation between states in the defence field. It will also help to communicate information on defence and military matters. The parties can also cooperate in areas such as the purchase of arms and military products through joint projects and production. Supply of weapons, military equipment and other military supplies, service, repair and upgrading of military equipment and other military-technical services. Sharing experiences and information. Therefore, the adoption of this Law on the Ratification of the said Agreement will allow us to deepen our cooperation with Indonesia and this is one of the important directions given the visits that have been made in the past, particularly in Indonesia and Malaysia. I would also like to support the Committee's decision in foreign matters to ratify the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on cooperation in the defence field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Hopko. Dear colleagues, we now have the opportunity to discuss this law with you, and I ask you to sign up for factions: two for, two against, please. Igor Mosiyczuk gives the word to Oleg Lashko. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u45	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will certainly support the Defence Cooperation Agreement with Indonesia. It would seem like warm Indonesia is far from Ukraine, but in the security of today's global world, there is no such thing as far away or near. There is one concept: either our ally and friend, or at least not the enemy, or the enemy, the aggressor and the invader. And so we welcome efforts to increase cooperation in the defence field. This will first allow us to implement our defence product. But I'm no less concerned, and much more concerned about the issue, it's the provision of our military -- technology, equipment, protective equipment. And so, when I hear, here are some of the Pharisee colleagues coming out here to the rostrum and thanking the soldiers who are protecting the Audio, you don't thank them, you give them money for their wages, for tanks, for their weapons, for their armor, for their equipment and for their food. Here's your best thanks. Or they don't vote for the army's funding by playing Putina, "Troyan horses of Moscow" along with "Moscow zests," and then they come out thanking our military. So our task is to have as many allies as possible, to draw them to us all over the world. Yesterday, the kindergarten was distributed on the rostrum, a boycott of Germany. You're in the sandbox. Is diplomacy such a mess? Let Poland have a boycott for Bandera, Germany for an interview, the United States for taking a visa to Láska. Who are we staying with tomorrow? Where will we get allies? Putin will only applaud. It is not a boycott, but cooperation with our allies!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Ivan Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u47	Good morning, dear fellows! Indeed, the ratification of such systemic agreements is important for Ukraine. We are working around our allies, an alliance that will fight against the occupation of the Russian Federation together with us. I want to remind you that Indonesia suffered from Russian aggression, MN-117 planes were hit by the Russian Bull, a Russian crew from the territory that Russian troops occupied. As far as total cooperation with Indonesia is concerned, it will last and develop. Ukrainian defence companies provide military equipment, an important flow of currency into Ukraine. But even so, I would still like to continue with what the previous colleague had said. Indeed, Parliament needs to work more effectively today. I want to remind you that yesterday we were unable, unfortunately, to confirm with you even the order of the day session of the sixth call. The sixth session of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly. We haven't even been able to establish the order of the day for this plenary week. We were forced yesterday to consider issues related to the installation of traps in the woods or fines for garbage in the woods. I'm sorry, it's not the parliament of a warring country, you know, still protecting our soldiers, standing here at the rostrum, making various calls, it's not clear what if we didn't vote, for example, a special confiscation, when we didn't take Janukovich's money, which is what the Ukrainian army needs today. You know, many of those who are standing near the rostrum have systematically failed these projects to fund the Ukrainian army. It is unfortunate that the individual factions that stood near the rostrum yesterday did not support the military budget in 2016 or 2015. That's how we are, unfortunately, a disgraceful situation, is a theater of absurdity. Let's finish it, let's really actively support Ukraine, actively support that only institution that is now holding back the Russian invasion of Ukraine. I'm sorry, you know, there are not very concerned diplomats in the trenches of Europe or the United States, there are our boys sitting there, and they need our support, they need support. They need support from defence companies that stood for six months last year, in 2016, for lack of funding. This is the responsibility of the Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u48	Thank you, Sir John. Please, Mr. Melniczuk of the will of the people. They'll come out of the place. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u49	Colleagues, this will be the last performance. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u50	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. The group will, of course, support the initiative, and cooperation between our partners is essential. But what I want to point out is that in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Ministry of Defense, there's a man who's not supposed to be there. This is the Secretary of Defense, a militiaman who's actually burying the Ukrainian army. The General Headquarters is headed by Vicia Catafolk, where our brothers' blood is. The Croobronprom, and the Defense Committee, and their liaisons are headed by a corrupt man who shot a man in the leg and now tries to get away from responsibility. And it's all shut up. We, MPs, are trying to accuse us of not voting for a special confiscation, but the Secretary of Defense of 1 billion 200 -- failure in the past year. Here, under the Supreme Council, are the objects of Yanukovic. Why didn't you confiscate them, sell them? Why weren't they returned to state property? And a pair of lips! Look under the nose, it's all there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u51	I want to address both Mr. Sergei and everyone in the room. Today our army is protecting Ukraine from a Russian aggressor. And she demonstrated a high level of organization and discipline. I find it unacceptable that we should speak in the Supreme Council Hall about the Minister of Defence and the other superior leadership of our army. It's a blow to the back of the Ukrainian army, or I can't take it. I won't give you a line, because I didn't call your last name. This, you know, back in the 18th year in the middle of our army was balanced, then it was necessary to remove from the leading Ukrainian troops of Konovaltz, the smoking of the Slobodans, so as not to allow the balance of the Ukrainian army. Once again, I find it unacceptable, and I will not allow the leadership of the army, which today protects Ukraine from the Russian aggressor, to disrespect and speak such words. And I think the hall supports me. Is he backing me up? [[B in m in s a l in]] [[Applause]] Let's not let this happen. Let's not let this happen. [[Applause]] Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take some jobs to make a decision. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Justice Organization (0122). Please, everyone. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, 0126. I've got it. So the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Cooperation in the Defence Sector (No. 0126) proposed by the Committee as a whole. Ratification of cooperation in the defence sector. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:09:47]] For 227 Ratification accepted. The law is passed. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, the next issue of ratification is the committee's request to move. And we're moving to a cluster of questions, these are draft parliamentary hearings regulations. We have a whole package of these. No parliamentary hearings are scheduled for today and it is important for us to be able to vote on them so that the committees can prepare parliamentary hearings. Various committees, regardless of factions, regardless of political preferences, we need to support these decisions so that committees can prepare parliamentary hearings. It's a whole cluster of questions, if I'm not mistaken, 10 questions. I ask you intensively and dynamically to consider these questions. They usually do not call for discussion, but there must be a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the first one. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary hearings on "Priority of observance of the insurance rules in the reform of the pension system" (No.5710). This is the Social Policy Committee. Colleagues, I would like the first vote to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:11:15]] For 184 Decision taken. The Social Policy Committee will report. Drauk will report from the committee. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u52	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Recently, from various sources, both from the government of Ukraine and from international organizations, there have been rather conflicting statements about possible changes in the pension system. Regrettably, this uncertainty is a source of dissatisfaction and concern for citizens. In doing so, it should be noted that the pension is the only source of income for non-working pensioners. Thus, the financial capacity of the pension system directly depends on the welfare of nearly 12 million people, or 1 out of every 4 citizens of Ukraine. The current pension system, unfortunately, does not ensure the realization of the right of citizens to a decent pension and has a number of problems. That is, a low pension rate, a minimum pension of 1 thousand 247 dollars, receives almost 1 out of every 9 pensioners, a lack of upgrading of previously assigned pensions, a significant gap between pension sizes in different years. On January 1, 9, the average pension rate was 898, and on January 16, it was 1,000,866, per month, nearly twice as many. The third year in a row is limited to the payment of pensions to working pensioners. In two years, the pension system was substantially changed and citizens were deprived of the State guarantees that were granted at the beginning of their work. Retirement mechanism has been changed, and pensions have been allocated from statutory to government-established pensions. The Unbalanced Budget of the Pension Fund: In the 17th year, nearly 142 billion dollars were allocated from the State budget to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund. But the main thing is the destroyed principle of the construction of the pension insurance system, the key of which is the dependency on the size of pensions on insurance and premiums. Therefore, with a view to forming a state-owned pension strategy, it is urgent to discuss how the pension system can be constructed to deal with its reform at the highest national level. To this end, the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, were introduced a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 7, 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u53	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u54	the priority of keeping the insurance rules in the reform of the pension system. The committee supports this legislative initiative. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u55	Thank you, colleagues. Please record: two in, two in. Yuszkova Tetjana gives the word Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, you are proposing to hold parliamentary hearings six months later in June as a way for pensioners to pay their pensions. And you thought, how many retirees won't live to hear your parliamentary hearings? Because they cannot afford to buy a cure, pay for a utility, buy a piece of bread, and at least a piece of butter. It is therefore necessary not to hold parliamentary hearings, but to immediately submit to Parliament a bill on a radical increase in pensions for Ukrainians. First of all, there are pensioners whose half a million in Ukraine receive less than a thousand dollars, the so - called 947 - dollar social pension. It was assigned to people because people do not have enough insurance to pay for their employment pension. But it's not because these people didn't work, it's because they worked without working, in the market, self-employed, in a support farm, and they got paid in envelopes, and as a result, in Krilov's summer, the red pen, they failed, and the pension was already in the back, and as a result, they get a minimum pension. We've registered with the Radical Party faction colleagues a bill to raise these pensions for people who get less than a thousand dollars. And what about pensioners who are 40 to 50 years of age and who get one and a half thousand pensions, that's also bullying. Because that's what they've been working for, and they've been paying pensions all their lives. So the way out is that in order for people to get high pensions, they have to get high wages and they have to get these high decent salaries legally, not in an envelope. So all of you who are fighting against our fight to raise Ukrainian incomes, you don't like Ukrainians, you hate Ukrainians, you want them to live in slavery and poverty for the rest of their lives. We won't let you do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u57	Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u58	I would like to inform the previous speaker that a bill on the radical increase of pensions was introduced a month ago by the Social Democratic Party and leader Sergey Kaplin, 3,000 pensions up to 3,200 dollars. Over the course of the year, without any unnecessary speeches on the rostrum, without watering the bile rostrum of the Supreme Council together with the unions, we have achieved a concrete, real result, we have raised the minimum wage for ordinary average citizens. Now there are two new fronts of the fight: a reduction of the only tax for the second group of entrepreneurs. Again, without unnecessary shouting, hysteria, and performances on the rostrum today, we have initiated more than 45 cities through our deputies to reduce that level of single tax and have achieved the result. And I call upon all the factions of the Supreme Council, all the parties to appeal to their members of the local councils to repeat these social-democratic party feats in the fight for simple entrepreneurs and to vote on such decisions. That's the first one. The other one. Our bill foresees a real increase in the minimum pension to 3,000 200. Simple average pensioners who have built factories, factories that have preserved agriculture, who have given travel to many of today’s politicians here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine have endured them for 25 years have earned a normal full pension at a minimum of living. There's only one question, where do you get the money to raise? The answer is the same on the surface. First. Take a look at the state budget and claim the right in individual corruption factions to rob a country on fire trucks and find out where the 15 million dollars are bought by individual leaders today. It's money.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u59	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please. He's giving Melniczuk the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u60	"We have come to the bottom of debt and poverty. It's not war, it's hybrid leaders." Hybrids are the ones that didn't. They didn't call war a war. Hybrids are the ones who betrayed Crimea. Hybrids are the ones who betrayed Donbas. Hybrids are the ones who lay boys in packs on the front. Hybrids are the ones who steal from fire trucks, the ones who steal from Ucrobanprom. These hybrid leaders are robbing our state, our people, and our pensioners. What kind of reform are we talking about? And we killed them in this budget to fund their party structures? Even "The Cloud," who was trying to say that they're giving up their money, they're still refusing. This Parliament needs to be fully reloaded. Then our people will not be able to endure, nor will they be able to endure. He will appeal to the Hague Tribunal for the destruction of the nation, and it will be these leaders who will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u61	Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Please speak on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, raise your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u63	Mrs. Natalie, I'm sorry, I'm asking you to speak in the State language, I've spoken to you about this subject, if it's not difficult. On the rostrum of the Supreme Council is a state body. We can't see that in France, in Germany, in the United States, in any other country. Mrs. Natalie, my great request, my great request to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Speaker! But I ask you to apply this approach to every national MP, not to individual national MPs. Therefore, if we make such a decision, we take it to every national MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u65	Everyone backing up, colleagues? Let's all do it. Mrs. Natalie, I'll give you full time. Colleagues, let's all settle down here, we'll all be speaking in national language. You got a deal, everybody backing up? The whole room's backing up. Thank you. Mrs. Natal, it's for everyone, it's not just for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u66	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, who today object to the retirement of our pensioners? I'm asking you to raise the hand of the national deputies who are against the rise of the pension. None, all of them. But unfortunately, in the last two years, the pension is now at the lowest level in the country. And that's why the Opposition Block is addressing each and every one of you, Mr. Speaker, with a request to consider urgently the question of increasing the pension. We insist that today, as a minimum, 3,000 dollars is the money to get pensioners as a minimum pension. And we registered an appropriate bill in Parliament. Because today there's money for Euroworking, there's money today to rehabilitate palaces in the country, there's money for financing political parties today. But unfortunately, today there is no money in this Parliament to provide our pensioners, although a slight increase in pensions. That's why the Opposition Block is calling for a bill package to be considered in Parliament as soon as possible, and I understand that each faction has registered its own project, and it's very complex to raise pensions for our pensioners. And we very much hope that the Speaker of Parliament will guarantee the social guarantees of our citizens and solve this issue, and the Ukrainian Parliament will, from March 1st, ensure an increase in pensions to 3,000 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, just to remind you, we are considering parliamentary hearings at the request of the committee and this is actually the subject of our conversation. Alexander Kugel, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I think we should thank the Social Policy Committee for making such, very important decisions for parliamentary hearings. Should they be conducted? You have to, because you have to change the system, the understanding, the slogans. And I think there's definitely no person here who hasn't been texted by their voters: how can you live on 924 bracelets? And we, no one, can answer that. Passwords end here, the system is dead, the solidarity system can't exist in Ukraine, because in these years of independence, unfortunately, for the first time, we've reduced ideology, the foundation of a solidarity system, that's the number of jobs. And unfortunately, we have very serious demographic issues with you today. I'll say an unpleasant thing, but in the last two years, women who had an average of 83 years of retirement are 63.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u69	Please, 30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u70	The men are 63, as was the case, and the women are 74, in two years. I would like to ask Ludmila Denisov to make these parliamentary hearings, not political speeches, but to invite scientists, to invite professionals and to make a very serious decision on how to reform the system and preserve our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to come into the Hall of All People’s Deputies and prepare for a decision. My colleagues, I want to remind you once again, this is a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order, we have been approached by a committee, like 10-12 other committees. This is the possibility that we can schedule all parliamentary hearings for this session. Each one has its date and is scheduled for the entire half of the year. So I very much ask my colleagues to support here their colleagues who are on this committee and to vote together in favour of this decree. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Priority of keeping the insurance rules in the reform of the pension system" (No. 5710). The committee's proposal is to support the draft Regulation as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:27:22]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, the Presidency has received a call from two factions regarding the announcement of a recess, from the Radical Party and the Self-Help faction. They are ready to replace this break with a three - minute tribune. And I'm asking everyone to stay put, and we'll move on to the next orders. And now I give the floor to Galasyuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The government is trying to turn the Ukrainians into immigrants and Ukraine into an orphan colony and leave our country with no air and no forest. In the Supreme Council, there is a bill on the abolition of the moratorium on the export of roundwood, which, contrary to the law, contrary to the rules of the Supreme Council, has fallen, not on the Committee of Industrial Policy, but on the Committee of Economic Policy. I appeal to the Chief of the Supreme Council to correct this unfortunate mistake. Tell me, dear colleagues, dear friends, who don't understand that Ukraine needs to make ready goods from the forest round: paper, pellets, furniture, board anything? Because the forest round is sold abroad for $50 a cube, and the finished product for $500-600 a cube. Because when we're exporting forest circles abroad, there's no work, there's no wages, there's no investment, there's one debt, there's an IMF loan. And we cut out our ecology, our future, and we sell for nothing abroad! Because of this poor policy of power, they are willing to sell whatever they want, sell their people, sell the forest, and their mother will sell tomorrow. This is totally unacceptable! Look, this is just a visual example. Because with the adoption of the moratorium chosen by the Radical Party faction, along with the same-minded people in this room, I am grateful to all of you for your support, this branch has begun to re-emerge. Plus 17 percent in US dollars, to the budget, investment in woodworking equipment in Ukraine tripled. The investor believed and went to the country, including a European investor. And today these 30 silver coins are being offered to sell this moratorium? But we never have to do that. Moreover, this moratorium fully meets our conditions for participation in the World Trade Organization. I would like to point out that in Parliament there is a bill on criminalizing the smuggling of roundwood forests and restricting the internal consumption of wood is what the European Union has imposed on us. So we're giving all of the government's prizes to negotiate on this issue. And the government instead of defending the interests of Ukraine abroad through economic diplomacy, creating jobs, giving income to Ukrainians, instead they find a deputy who agrees to submit this disgrace completely, they sign up to that committee and they try to extend it, it's an anti-government policy. Dear colleagues, we have to take this issue together for control, let's not assume the moratorium on the exports of roundwood. We need to create jobs in the country, make ready products, fill the budget and pay pensions out of it, and not at the expense of IMF loans to become a banana colony.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u73	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the next draft of the ruling. This is a bill for parliamentary hearings on "The role of Ukraine in the global problem of climate change -- challenges and new opportunities" (room 5528), this is the Committee on Environmental Policy. And I'm asking you to support the proposal: consideration of this motion by summary procedure, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Please. [[11:31:37]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Committee on Environmental Policy on Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Mr. Ostap, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u74	Dear fellow national MPs! For your consideration, the Environmental Policy Committee's draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearings on "The role of Ukraine in the global climate change problem - challenges and new opportunities" (registered December 12, 2016). The Supreme Council of Ukraine became one of the first parliaments to ratify the Paris Agreement on 14 July 2016 aimed at strengthening the implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. In principle, the Paris Treaty is new under a shared but differentiated responsibility, a dynamic system of commitments that includes the execution of expected national contributions that are accepted on a voluntary basis, i.e. each country is obliged to determine its own level of greenhouse gas emission limitation and enforcement. The main pillars of the agreement are the support of developing countries to prevent climate change, the mechanisms to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and the financial mechanisms of the convention. On the last day of the Marrakesh talks in November 2016, 48 countries in the world announced their willingness to move on to the use of 100% renewable energy sources by the middle of the century. The implementation of the Paris Agreement can create appropriate conditions for Ukraine and contribute to the upgrading of energy, transport, agriculture, and the use of new technologies. Thus, by holding parliamentary hearings, this will contribute to a broad discussion of this issue in the Ukrainian community, addressing environmental issues related to climate change, adaptation to climate change. As a result of a comprehensive analysis, we can make balanced decisions and suggestions from the mentioned question. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize the hall. The issue of climate change is the global issue of saving our planet, it's a technological problem. And that's all we can talk about in the halls of this Parliament. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, it can't be, it can't be recorded. a discussion, but I have to offer. Let's do it as precisely as possible. So, colleagues, please record: two in, two in, two in, against. Olga's mantis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I think it is an extremely important question directly related to the health of Ukrainian citizens. And for my part, as head of the Parliamentary Committee on Health, I believe that the country must do its utmost to create those processes that allow and preserve the environment, and to preserve our surrounding world, our planet, our only home. So I ask you to support me, to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u77	Thank you. I would like to encourage everyone to participate as closely as possible in the discussion as possible so that we can be more determined to accept it. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Of course, the Radical Party faction will support the Order on Parliamentary Hearings on such an important environmental issue. But at the same time, I want until we have conducted these parliamentary hearings and adopted the appropriate decisions, to draw your attention to the situation in my native Poltavian, with the poisoning of the peasants. In the village of Lazorka Orzitsky district, there is an illegally built plant for the poisoning of grains belonging to the agrarian oligarch Andrija Veryevski, his agroholding "Kernel". Here they poison the peasants by poisoning the grains. Bees are extinct, animals are ill, and most important, people are sick. I would like to address my colleagues from Poltavščina, the head of the district administration Valery Gołk, the head of the district council of Poltav, Alexander Bilenyk. Let's help people. Don't push people on the roads, on the railways, because people are willing to fight for their lives. And there's more. I would like to point out that in the Parliamentary Hall is Agent Andria Verevski, who is represented in a group of Eurooptimists and who is offering to sell Ukrainian land. This is how they see the future of the Ukrainian village: poisoning peasants and selling Ukrainian land. We radicals won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone. It's Matthew's. Debt, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u80	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues. Of course, the issue is very important with regard to the global climate change and the role of Ukraine in this problem. What is Ukraine’s role in global climate change? Indeed, the issue of CO2 emissions among the international community is now very critical. What role does Ukraine play? And Ukraine has, unfortunately, a positive role, and perhaps luckily. Because of what? Because there's a decline in production, the industry is lying, so there's no output, the industrial level that was in the 91st year is twice as low as the industry now. So what is this, the achievement of real power? Probably not, because it provokes unemployment, resulting in social tension. As for the language in which I have to speak, I have a very large request to the chairman, Andrej Vladimirović, to you. We have the law, the law is called the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have the Law “On the Basic Principles of Public Language Policy”, where article 9 makes it clear that a speaker can speak in a different language, the meetings of the Supreme Council are held in the State language, the meetings of the committee are held in the State language, and the speaker has the right to speak in the language he owns. Why does this rule exist? Because he talks to his constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u81	I'm asking you to stop the show right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you not to create a conflict atmosphere where there is no conflict. There is the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines that the national language is the English language, the only national language. Don't make a conflict where it's not there, please. Colleagues, you know, I'll take a minute with your permission. I'll ask you again, don't make a conflict where it's not there. There is the only national language in Ukraine, it is the Ukrainian language. And it is impossible to imagine in Parliament any European state, with all due respect for all national minorities, that Parliament should speak in a different language than in the national language. Do you want a translation? In advance, we will provide you with a translation and thus speak. But please don't provoke conflict or provoke opposition. I understand the hall supports me, don't you? [[Applause]] I am very polite, without disrespect, without any humiliation of any MP, I have made a request. I ask you to honor and respect this request. Do you have a deal? Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision, please. And the Motherland hasn't even spoken yet. Please, Sergey Sobolev. Okay, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that "Fatherland" will support this bill on threats to global climate change, warming and all sorts of other problems. But I would like to point out that it is the national parliaments that are the ones that are shaping the key legislative framework that allows or does not allow this to happen. Yesterday, unfortunately, Parliament failed. Only 170 deputies supported the protection of the natural foundation, the natural reserves, where a direct ban on logging, where a direct ban on the purpose and change of the target land, where a direct ban on the pursuit of so-called industrial activities in the nature reserves. So I'm pointing out to you that you can adopt the most beautiful statements and declarations, and then break down laws that, by the way, have supported all the factions of Parliament that have passed the profiling committees, but unfortunately, that are moving towards turning the country into a raw commodity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u83	Colleagues, there is general support for this draft decision. We finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please invite the heads of factions, deputies to the hall. Can we move on to making a decision? Colleagues, everyone in position? So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The role of Ukraine in the global climate change problem -- challenges and new opportunities" (No. 5528). Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[11:42:57]] For-200 Colleagues, I'm asking as many people as possible to come to the hall. I'll give you a minute to invite the deputies into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. Both the committees and the heads of the factions would like to invite the deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? Let's give it another 30 seconds, Rybak, while the MPs come in. Please invite everyone to the hall. Please turn on the microphone for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, it's a completely non-political question, it's not a question of the boycott of embassies or the boycott of countries, it's a question of the future of the environment in Ukraine. Dear friends, this is the initiative of the Committee on Environmental Policy. I call on the whole Parliament to support a completely non-political issue and a question that should unite this room. Because if such questions no longer unite the hall, we no longer have what to do here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u85	Thank you. So, colleagues. Members, do not leave the hall, but come in. They're all confused. So I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The role of Ukraine in the global climate change problem – challenges and new opportunities" (No. 5528). Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! Please vote. [[11:45:42]] For 203 No votes. Draft Decree 5528 has been rejected. We will need to prepare a new one and move on to a new decision. Next. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Medical Education in Ukraine: A View to the Future. And I would like to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please support, please vote 5600, consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:46:24]] For-182 182-yes. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u86	Dear colleagues and honourable Mr. Chairman, I ask you to make a controlling vote, because in the hall, if there are not enough deputies to have enough votes, I ask you to remove this question from the vote, it is mutual. Dear Mr. Head, I'm asking you to make a control vote in the hall and I ask you to take these questions off if there are not enough votes in the room to just support it. After that, I will be ready to start my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u87	We've entered into the bill, Mrs. Ola. Please report to me, I will then make a control vote before the report is completed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the Health Committee is initiating a parliamentary hearing in March of this year on the theme "Health education in Ukraine: a view to the future." I would like to point out that changes and reforms in the health system, the provision of health care for European quality, are not possible without a change in the educational paradigm. Our education needs to become competitive, it needs to become clear to the European community, and our doctors need to learn how to help with European standards. That's why we're initiating a hearing with the Ministry of Parliamentary Education, which will allow us to go out and create a law on university clinics, give some independence to our medical education institutions and create a control system, and most importantly bring them closer to European quality. And after the reform of the medical education system, in fact, only 10 years from now, we will be able to get doctors who will have completely different knowledge and will be able to work in real European standards. I would like to point out that it is suggested that we consider the date of March 1. However, in view of the fact that, according to the calendar schedule for the sixth session, March 1st, the week for district work, please change the date of parliamentary hearings to March 22nd or 15, 2017. Please support and accept the 5600 draft of Regulation No. 5600 with sound correction as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Skuratovsky. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u90	Andrew Volodymyrovich, Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u91	Kirichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u92	Good afternoon! The Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška will undoubtedly support parliamentary hearings on medical education in Ukraine. Because we have to note this fact that Ukraine's medical education is deteriorating, and it is deteriorating at all three levels of education. First. The training of our nurses, our innovations in funding medical schools, and the transfer of this funding to local budgets have led to the gradual closure of our medical schools. Doctors' education, we haven't created any institutional clinics in Ukraine, unfortunately, we haven't put our pulpits in a situation where they've become applicants in municipal institutions and it doesn't do any good for the development of these pulpits. If we talk about science, we can say that our avant-garde, our leading clinics such as the Shalimov Institute, the Amos Institute are now on the verge of closing down because they lack funding. And the Radical Party has already registered in Parliament a bill on substantial increased funding that will allow not only to cover wages for employees but also to provide medicines for people seeking highly specialized assistance in these institutions to be able to receive free treatment. So in order for us not to lose medical education at all, Parliament needs to conduct these hearings and find a way to preserve medical education in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u94	Obviously, this subject and such hearings need to be supported. And I'd like to ask the participants of the appropriate hearings to focus on, firstly, the problem of personnel deficit in general in the field, which is about 30 to 40 percent. Second, the problem of solving pay differentials. Today, regular hospital staff and surgeons receive almost the same salary. We've achieved a major wage increase, but at the same time I've asked the Prime Minister and the acting Minister of Health to take into account the fact that today the level of this salary is in ordinary staff, in health care, in surgeons at almost one level. Surgeon's got a little bit more than 100 bucks. The second important element is usually the absence of a long-term strategy for the development of the sector. I think this strategy should be formulated at the level of the next 10 to 15 years. To that end, we need to address a key human resources issue: the question of the appointment of a health minister and the approval of a team to produce a future development of the sector. The next important question is the fight against corruption. Unfortunately, all of our initiatives, which were linked to the involvement of international purchasing institutions, have led to internal-Ukrainian health corruption becoming just international. And third, it's a question of financial security. I think we should put a key emphasis on health issues. And only in the second or third instance, with regard to other sectors of our country. Today, we must find funds for such a development, where are these costs? These costs, again, in a fundamental review throughout the Constitution of our State, should be reduced to a hundred national deputies and the cost difference directed to ordinary people to ensure their health. You should buy no.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u96	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Respectable colleagues certainly need to consider the bill. To date, the deficit of doctors such as the family doctor spoken of today, and our ministry is about 3,000 people. Today, there are no such narrow professionals as pediatricians, those who work with childhood illness. To date, there are more than 22,000 vacancies in medicine in our country. And to be honest, if the retirees leave today, our medicine will just collapse and stop. And, of course, we would like to see how medical personnel are being prepared. But we also have another question: What about medicine? Where are we going with medical reform anyway? What are we even doing in this direction? We have absolutely no strategy today. I've just received a letter. Irina Evpatijska, a citizen of the city of Mariupol, wrote — an asthmatically ill person, she needs a medicine today to alleviate her suffering. Today, thousands of people die peacefully in their homes because they are unable to heal. Unfortunately, we do not see any way to deal with this problem. We do not see at all the mechanism for the reform of the medical sector. And while we're doing language speculation here today, in this room, our people are unfortunately dying quietly because of the disease.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u97	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. My colleagues, I'd like to emphasize again. I had a speech address, and it was clearly stated that meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its committees and commissions were held in national language. And it is written: The speaker may speak in a different language if the translation of his speech into the national language is provided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We don't have that kind of mechanism to provide for it right now. There is no mechanism to provide such a translation. Colleagues, we will consult together on how to deal with these situations. We'll figure out how to work on that. I would like to stress once again, during the discussion of the law, we will be discussing this law, and no other questions. From the People's Front, please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u98	Mr. Head, I fully support your position with regard to those national deputies who wish to speak in a language other than the State. Let them speak in the Duma. Secondly, I also propose to exclude the speeches of the young Lenins who are here talking about these for their parties. They've got enough air on the Procreme Inter, and Lewocken and Firtash are giving them time to talk about their innovations here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u99	My colleagues, I remind you, we are now looking at a draft of the Parliamentary Hearings Ordinance on Medical Education in Ukraine: A View to the Future. And, colleagues. Wasn't Fatherland speaking? Wasn't it from Fatherland? You didn't, did you? Please, Eutusek, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u100	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Still, I would like to put the discussion into practice and talk about, really, medicine. The listening that is proposed today to appoint and vote is the course where our doctors, those who teach future doctors, in medical education, will be able to express the current health and health situation. They will tell us with you, parliamentarians, executive authorities, what they think needs to be done further in reforming health care, since today there are indeed many problems in this area. I'm going to say that I'm a major, and in the Kostopil region of Plains, there's no full funding, no implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u101	30 seconds, please. Turn on 30 seconds to complete the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u102	..there is no funding for the implementation of this program. And local authorities are forced to look for and support these children with these very, very rare diseases in their very scarce incomes. So I think the hearing should be held. Fatherland will support it. And it's a playground for our doctors to give us a kind of impulse and a signal that we can continue to work on health reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u103	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I just saw a few deputies come out of the hall. Invite the deputies into the hall, please take your jobs, colleagues. Please. I'm going to put the ratings vote first so that we can figure out which one is in our room, which one is the mobilisation state, and we're going to be gathering deputies if we don't have enough votes. So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearings Ordinance on Health Education in Ukraine: A View to the Future. Colleagues, we'll support medicine. Please vote, please take part in the rating vote, 5660, the rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:59:57]] For 209 Let's invite a fellow MP to the Chamber. We're short a few votes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. Let me show you through the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 92, "National Front" – 54, "Resistance of the Block" – 7, "self-help" – 16, "Radical Party - 11, "Fathership" – 5, "Will of the People" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 4. Please come into the hall, colleagues, and we'll support medicine. We're talking a lot about medical reform, and there's an opportunity to create a playground where we can talk about it. Colleagues, may we vote? They're in the hall. So I'm re-voting 5600, draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Medical Education in Ukraine. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Colleagues, we vote, every voice weighs. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:01:21]] For 222 Three votes. I see, Sergey Sobolev. Colleagues, three votes, please come into the hall. Ask me who's in the towers. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to put the ruling to a vote. Colleagues, please, I bet. Guys, please! Is everyone ready to vote? I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Medical education in Ukraine: a view to the future" (No. 5600) as a whole. Please support the draft decision. Colleagues, every vote, we vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote! [[12:02:29]] For 237 Decision taken. Decisions accepted, colleagues. According to the Rules, I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12.35, we'll continue our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration, colleagues? Please register, please, colleagues. Colleagues, pay attention. Now. My colleagues, I have reason to say that there are not enough deputies in the room to continue our work to continue our work. And now I have a question about the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "State guarantees of social protection for ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and their family members: status and prospects." I find it unacceptable that we fail to make a similar decision. So it's important for me to be able to see if there are enough deputies in the room to continue our work. Head, I'm asking the head of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Chernenko, to give me advice on how to act in a similar situation. Please, Alexander Chernenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u105	Good afternoon. Andriy Volodymyrovich, since the Rules provide for the registration of deputies by electronic system, without detailing how, and we see that there are cards in the nests, it does not confirm the actual presence of deputies in the hall. Because as one of the suggestions is to register with an electronic system, but by pressing one of the pro-op buttons, "against," "resisted" that will allow the actual number of deputies present in the room to be detected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-08-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, me. According to the Rules, he has the right to determine whether there are deputies in the Hall, which is my right. In order to determine whether the readiness is in the decision-making room, I say again. When it comes to the order of the day, we have to finish it. I find it unacceptable to ask where the protection of ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and the members of their families are, and to fail. So I'm going to use my right to verify that there are deputies in the room. I'm asking you to hold a rating vote right now. For, against, abstain, and please all take part in it. Please participate in the rating vote. [[12:44:25]] For a hundred and Please include the factions. So, respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to take another walk, people are coming up, I'm going to take another walk, colleagues. I want to emphasize, I said this at the opening of the session: to be humiliated, to call into the hall and ask to come in and heads of factions and deputies. Now I'm going to run another rating vote. The results will be published in the Voice of Ukraine. Is that supported? Supported. I want to emphasize that there are a large number of active national MPs who come and work. And when there's a group of MPs who don't come, it's a disgrace to all those who work actively in the hall. I said this is our responsibility to the boys on the front. And we can't ask questions about the support of our fighters when there's not enough deputies in the room. I'm asking you to come into the hall right now, prepare for the ratings vote. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm conducting a rating vote for registration, for the presence of deputies in the hall. Please. Everybody's got the cards, everybody's in place, right? Please participate in the rating vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:46:38]] For-198 198 deputies. Not enough for a successful vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. I wish you a fruitful committee job. And I'd like you to hold a disciplinary hearing in all factions, and there are deputies in the room.
