ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, 4:00. Are you ready for work? Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the hall. We have a very important bill on the agenda, and I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Ready? So I'd like the National Deputies to register. Please. [[16:03:51]] There are 342 national deputies registered in the hall. No doubt about it. And I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. First of all, I'd like to make a message. We've had a technical misunderstanding, an application to resign from the "will of the people" group Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin read from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and in fact it should be read from the chairman's bureau. And that's why I'm putting it right now and I'm going to read out the application. So, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, from the MP group "The Will of the People". And now, honourable colleagues, we go to the next bill, which is in order of the day, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening child safety. I want to remind you that the minimum number of rights to it is, and so we're going to move quite quickly to making a decision, and I call on the factions to invite MPs into the room. And I invite the head of the committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Dr. Mr. John, Ukraine awaits your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u2	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! A fairly important bill in the second reading of 3579 will address the safety of children in the face of Russian aggression. I wanted our national deputies all to come to the hall. The issue is quite important because the committee believes that its approval will increase the attention of law enforcement officials and military officials to the issue of the rights of the child. There were 27 amendments to the bill, with which the committee suggested that 11 amendments should be taken into account, that only 10 amendments should be rejected, and that part of 6 amendments should be taken into account. In particular, the committee proposes to reject the amendments proposed to be removed from Ukraine's laws on the basis of Ukraine's national security and on the principles of domestic and foreign policy, the rules on the protection of children's rights. Most of the other amendments proposed to the bill, to the second reading, are of a precise and editorial nature. The committee requests that the technical error be corrected and that the third subparagraph of subparagraph "g" of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of Section I of the bill be inserted in the version of Amendment 25, which was considered by the committee. In particular: "Prevention of social poverty and institutionalization of children, particularly by supporting parents in their parental responsibilities and developing a social service system for families with children." So to give up the term "early intervention systems," which is one of the types of social services. At the same time, the National Deputies of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, John Krulk, amended number 28, which proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill containing the full text of the bill. Since the proposed standards conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, the committee suggests that the amendment be taken into account in part. The one you're supposed to be tasking. But instead of supporting the amendment of the members of our committee, this is number 27, which is proposed to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine during the drafting of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2018, with a substantial increase in the child's subsistence minimum, and by January 1st 18th, to introduce a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on improving the social protection of families with children and establishing fair social guarantees for children. So the committee is asking for the support of the bill, and we can move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u3	Let's move on to the amendments, dear fellow. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u4	Thank you. Please prepare yourself, be conscientious, and be responsible for the declaration of rights. 1st, Bogdan. Don't insist. 2nd, Logwinsky. Don't insist. 3rd, Shapovalov. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 10th, Pawel. Is there a Pavlenko in the hall? Don't insist. Logwinsky. Don't insist. Wesley's.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u5	Natalia Weselov, you insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u6	Merry Christmas, your turn? Don't insist. Lechenko. Lechenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u7	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Amendments to article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy are proposed among those who have priority in providing affordable housing, also to provide for orphans and children deprived of parental care, persons of their number. We believe that such individuals should include families with children in general, in line with article 27 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. So what we're talking about is that our amendment offers to help with housing for all families that have children, not just in the multi-child families or orphans, or children who are deprived of parental care. It makes sense, given that we have a totally terrible demographic crisis today in the country. I think we need to do everything we can to encourage the Ukrainians to give birth. It has to be a long-term family, and even 1-2 children, that's good. So please take this into account. Amendment No. 15. It's written that it's partially numbered, and it's not counted at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u8	15 revisions. I ask John Dmitrovitch to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u9	Indeed, amendment 15 is partially counted. In view of Amendment 17, where Amendment 17 proposes that we provide affordable housing for many families rather than for all families with children. Thus, Amendment 15 is partially taken into account in the light of Amendment No. 17, which proposes to provide affordable housing, and so I said, many families. So you can put it to a vote, but it's part of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u10	Thank you. Colleagues Lechchenko insists that Amendment 15 be taken fully into account. And that's how I'm going to put it to a vote. And I remind you, we have one amendment left. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall and ask the factions to maximize the number. And I'm voting on Lechchenk's proposal that Amendment 15 be adopted in full. Whoever supports this proposal from Lechchenk, please vote. [[16:12:17]] For-44 The decision is not taken. The next 22 amendments. People's Deputy Levchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u11	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Amendments to the same article 8 of the law provide for the inclusion in the basic principles of domestic policy, in the social sphere, of development, too, quote, "early intervention systems aimed at preventing parents from rejecting newborn children with disabilities." In our view, this early intervention system should apply to the prevention of parental rejection in general from newborn children, including children with disabilities. This is not to say that the system should work exclusively to prevent parents from rejecting children with disabilities, but it should be that this system should work to ensure that parents refuse their children at all, whether they are developed or not. So, actually, I'm asking you to take my amendment into account and insert literally five words, "including," not just "with developmental defects," but "including with developmental flaws." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u12	Thank you. Please comment, Mr. John. And I remind you, in a minute or two, there's gonna be a vote. This is a presidential bill that deals with supporting and strengthening child safety assurances. All we care about is that there are enough deputies in this room. Please invite everyone into the hall. Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u13	Indeed, the amendment has been rejected in connection with Amendment No. 25, which excludes "early intervention services" in general, since it is only one form of social services. Because Amendment 25 provides for the prevention of social investigation and institutionalization of children to be implemented by providing parental support for their parental responsibilities and the development of a social welfare system for families with children. So it excludes "early intervention" from the text of the paragraph, because it's just one kind of social service. Therefore, Lechchenka’s 22 amendments were rejected in connection with Amendment 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u14	Thank you. And, I understand, Yuri Lewchenko insists on voting. And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 22 People's Deputy Levchenk, the committee rejected it, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:15:05]] For-54 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, next, 23rd. Don't insist. 24th. Don't insist. 26th. Don't insist. So we finished the discussion. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, we're moving on to making a decision. Now I'm going to give the committee a word for the speech. And please come into the hall, take up jobs, colleagues. The committee head says we'll give the committee's head a minute, mobilize the hall. It's Ivan Dmitrovich. Please, Ivan Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u15	I would very much like all the national MPs to come to the hall, because today, again, I would like to repeat that we are talking about child safety assurances, especially once again that we need to strengthen the safety of children here, especially in times of Russian aggression. And in this bill that we're going to accept in the second reading, it's really going to be the law that will reinforce the attention of law enforcement officials, the increased attention of military personnel to the rights of the child. So I would very much like everyone to come to the hall and vote in favour of the bill, so that it actually becomes the law for our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u16	Thank you. And the chairman of the committee, Arthur the Chamber, will speak authoritatively of the committee's position and move on to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Thank you, Mr. Ivan, for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill for our children, and I have repeatedly said it on the Conciliation Council. After all, this bill was put into the passage, I hope, in the passage of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to say that there will be no second chance of that, because our committee's drafts don't always come up, they're standing there in the morning, so I'm asking everyone to settle down. There's no politics, there's no corruption, there's nothing to prevent everyone from voting for our children. I ask everyone to vote and support this bill, to meet in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u18	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please, the MPs are still good. As long as the MPs are right, I'll give Mrs. Natalia the floor. Turn on the microphone on the stand, turn on the microphone in the government bed, please, Mrs. Natalie.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u19	The Ministry of Social Policy is asking for support for this very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u20	Thank you. So we have a common position of all the MPs, the government, and we can make a positive responsible decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on strengthening child safety guarantees (No. 3579) on second reading and in general. Colleagues responsible for each voice matter, take up jobs, and please support the committee's position in the second reading and in general 3579. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:19:34]] For 190 The MPs didn't make it into the hall. We'll wait until they get into the hall. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. Please come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. In a minute, there will be a vote. Please come into the hall and take your seats. And as long as the national deputies meet in the hall. Please, there will be voices. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, I'll put you back on. Please, we're taking up jobs. I'll put it to a vote. Don't come out, fellows, please, it's children's safety. Just a minute. Guys, get back to the hall. Dude, I'm asking you to vote, colleagues. Yeah, so we're making a decision. I propose to go back to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening child safety assurances. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I see not everyone in the workplace, please. So please all take part in the vote. I propose to go back to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws on strengthening child security (number 3579). Please vote carefully, please support. Vote, colleagues, disciplined and conscientiously. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, please. [[16:23:42]] For 206 It's a positive trend, but not all of them have come together yet. That's why I'm inviting everyone into the hall. Please show the factions and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. I now ask Irina Lucenko, the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. Please, one minute. And I'd like you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask you to consolidate and vote on one basic question, how we react to the fate of our children today in Ukraine. In 10 years, the number of children fell from 14 million to 7 million. We are now talking about regulating that child protection is an important component of the child’s national interests. I'll just get you some numbers. Over the past five years, and especially now, during the war period, only non-arm aggression increases the number of children who have been victims of crime each year, about 8,000 children, and in 2014 48 children were killed, in 2015-68, in 11 months 2016-98. This year – more than 100 children, robberies – 405, 452; 504, 545 – 2017. Rapes in 2014 were 80 children, 64 children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u22	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u23	In 2016, 75. We have a huge network of boarding facilities. We want to turn this network into a family-type house. Founded in 2017, there were funds for the transfer from boarding houses to family houses. We have more than one and a half million families, where only mother raises children. It's 3 million children in difficult living conditions. People, we have a future for Ukraine! If we do not give this issue priority in matters of national security and defence, for whom do we actually fight, for whom do we make these reforms? If we do not put children’s questions, health, and development first, what are we going to do here, and what are we doing? Please keep your head down, don't look for any party and underwater stones on this issue. There is no political question here. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u24	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. This is not a political issue. This is a question that unites all factions and governments. We just need more discipline in the hall. Strengthening child safety guarantees is obviously for every patriot, and for every citizen, it's important. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now I'll give you another word for the speech. One minute, Miroshnichenko. Please come into the hall, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, what kind of law is that? The Law simply says that the issue of family, children, and everything related to the future in the country should be subject to study and protection at the national security level. Isn’t family and children an object of state attention? So, in my opinion, it's a normal law to vote for. So I invite our colleagues who represent the opposition to support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u26	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, and I'm now proposing to go back to this law. And each voice has a weight. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and I'm asking you to support everyone. And to put aside the political differences that may exist between us on other issues. So I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening child security (No. 3579). Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every voice matters. Please take up your jobs and support the offer to return to consideration 3579. Please vote. Please support the children. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:29:02]] For 252 Decision taken. And I'm putting draft Law 3579 in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. And thank you all for understanding. Please vote. [[16:29:27]] For 249 The law is passed. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian legislation on housing for military personnel and members of families of military personnel who died in military service (No. 4995). The rapporteur from the committee is Vinick John. There are very few amendments here, so please don't go away. Please remain in the hall, the vote will take place in a few minutes. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u27	The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! The committee was consulted in the first reading and adopted on the basis of the Law of Ukraine (registration number 4995) on amendments to the Law on Housing and the Law on the Social and Legal Status of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on the guarantee of the right to housing. There were 6 proposals for this project, 3 of them included, 2 taken into account, 1 rejected. So if there's no objection, let's not split up, but vote, it's a simple project, it's needed today to increase the social protection of military personnel and it will guarantee the family of the dead fighter getting the housing he's entitled to under the Constitution. Thank you. We're voting as a whole on the committee's proposal, according to the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u28	Thank you. As soon as you vote, colleagues, don't break up or go into the hall. I want to address the National MPs. This is a matter of social security for Ukrainian military personnel. There's going to be a vote, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Colleagues, it's the vote. Please. Then there will be a longer discussion, colleagues. Now we have the vote. I ask you to come back, vote, then hold a meeting. I remind you once again of the title of the bill. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian legislation on the provision of housing for military personnel and members of families of military personnel who died in the service. I am convinced that every MP in the process of voting for such a law should be in the workplace and supported. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. And don't make me humiliate myself every time, calling MPs to work. Our soldiers are in trenches, in workplaces without calls, and out of a sense of duty. That is how we should feel and conduct ourselves. Please take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian legislation on the provision of housing for military personnel and members of families of military personnel who died in the course of military service, number 4995, at the request of a second-reading committee and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. All patriots, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:33:36]] For 216 I see we haven't made it. I'll be back in a minute. It's only during these drafts that we have to be in the hall. I see, Andrew. And I'd like everyone to come to the hall and take their jobs. Be responsible. We have been entrusted by society with key decisions in this country. And everyone has to be responsible for being here, in this room, in the workplace. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm going to make a return offer. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I propose to return to draft Law 4995 on the provision of housing for military personnel and members of families of military personnel who died in the service of the military. Please vote, please support everyone, all the halls. Everyone's voice, colleagues, be careful! Please support the return to 4995. Please vote, each voice has a weight. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[16:35:00]] For 223 Three votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are you guys doing? What are you doing? Can you get out of the room during this vote? Please, one minute, Kishkaru, 30 seconds. And please invite everyone into the hall, call your friends who are sitting next to you, and invite you to the hall. Please, Kiskar, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress the importance of supporting this bill, because it is those people who lost their breadwinner in the war. I lost my closest friend, Sergio Orotenko, who died under Mariana. His family lost a breadwinner, lost a father and a husband, and lost three children and a mother’s salary of 4,000 dollars. The Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian State, guarantees every family if, God forbid, something happens to them in a war that is worthy of compensation for the purchase of housing. That's what this bill is about. Please support, please take responsibility for your duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u30	Guys, I see five or seven deputies coming up, don't come out of the hall. Our military officers, if they were responsible, would have stood at the entrance and wouldn't have let anyone out of the hall until we got a positive vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. And I'm proposing a vote to go back to the draft Housing Act of the members of the families of military personnel who died in the service of the military (4995). Please support the families of the dead and please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:37:14]] For 237 We're back. And I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian legislation on the provision of housing for military personnel and members of the families of military personnel and members of the families of the families of military personnel who died in the course of the military service, (4995) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:37:51]] For 243 Decision taken. The law is passed, colleagues. We are now moving on to a cluster of issues that are already waiting for two months to be considered, which, I am convinced, will also be able to unite the entire room, because this is a matter of countering trafficking in human beings, which are at the same time our obligations to cooperate with the EU. These are all laws of first reading. The first is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing the resistance to trafficking and protecting victims (No. 6125). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please. [[16:38:50]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u31	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the national parliament, you have before you a draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase opposition to human trafficking and to protect the victims. The draft Act proposes to amend a number of Ukrainian laws in order to improve public policy on combating trafficking in human beings. In particular, the Ukrainian Anti-Trafficking Act, in part, makes it appropriate to define trafficking in human beings in accordance with the Protocol on the Prevention and Cessation of Trafficking in Persons, especially Women, Children and Punishment. The protocol also complements the UN convention against transnational organized crime, including by broadening the goal of helping individuals who have suffered from various forms of trafficking, including forced labour, slavery, human research, organ removal, and other forms of exploitation. Next. In addition to the basic principles of anti-trafficking in persons with disabilities, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the granting of powers in the field of countering human trafficking to local governments, such as the implementation of the procedure for establishing the status of a person who has suffered from trafficking and the provision of services, this will greatly facilitate the access of victims to assistance. Next. In the area of expanding the network of institutions that will help people who have suffered from human trafficking, social-psychological assistance centres, namely these centers, these institutions are currently the most well-suited utilities to provide assistance to such a category of people. And to make changes to a number of Ukrainian laws, such as local self-government in Ukraine, local government and employment, the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. The adoption of this bill does not require additional expenditure from the state budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u32	Thank you for the report, Mrs. Natalia. You can go to your workplace. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice of Ruslan Sidorovich to report. Please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! This bill was actually supposed to be accepted in this session room a long time ago. I will not dwell very closely on the bill itself, it was described by a government representative. In short, in fact. According to the "Explanatory Note" of the bill, it is designed to improve public policy on counter-trafficking in human beings, which will improve the quality of services and help those who have suffered from trafficking in human beings. In order to achieve the goal, the body of the legislative initiative proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, Ukraine’s laws on local self - government in Ukraine, on local government, on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, on the opposition to human trafficking, on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the legal status of foreigners and persons without citizenship, and on the employment of the population. The bill must be adopted in line with the commitments made by Ukraine after ratifying the European Council Convention on Combating Trafficking on May 16, 2005. Why is this so important? The world today similarly sees Ukraine’s ability to deal effectively with human trafficking. Very little, the United States warns that delaying Ukraine's adoption of the relevant bill can lead to an end to Ukraine's unhumanitarian aid. I think that for today, anyone who is in the session room should decide whether he is not voting, not supporting such a bill, could lose the support of our strategic partner of the United States. That is why I call for this bill to be voted on only as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u34	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u35	This bill should only be voted on the basis, because the changes that need to be made to procedural legislation will have to be brought into line with those procedural codes that have already been voted on in the Supreme Council. In addition, the question of financial assistance, which is hoped for, is suggested by one aspect of relying on local self - government authorities, requires a separate analysis, since according to legislation it is prohibited to rely on local government authorities for financial obligations from the State without showing the sources for these expenses. So we vote on the basis and we work on the second reading. Thank you. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u36	(Gerashchenko) Thank you for your clarification. The coreporter now rightly pointed out that this bill is part of Ukraine’s commitment to our bilateral dialogue with the Council of Europe. And now I'm asking the factions to sign up for a discussion: two for two for two against. And really ask the hall to go through this very actively today, which very rarely comes into our consideration and concerns the protection of human rights. This is no less important than the fight against corruption and other key reforms undertaken by the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, Your Honor, we'll sign up for a discussion. Please, People's Deputy Linko. He's giving the word to Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u37	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! When one and a half million Ukrainians leave Poland in a few years to work legally, is that not human trafficking? When millions of Ukrainians are destroying their families to make a few hundred euros abroad, sending them to feed their children is not human trafficking? When Ukraine today has such a policy that millions of people become beggars, or forced immigrants, that it is not human trafficking? When abroad loans are willing to sell anything that Europe says we'll give you 600 million euros of credit, just cancel the moratorium on the exports of roundwood that you and I have accepted in this room. What's that called? It's called, give us the wand, and we'll give you some fish. What does this lead to? But this leads to the trafficking of people who are willing to sell themselves just to survive. Thus, investment laws are needed first of all today. For the fourth time, the day of industrial development and economics has been around. Is that normal? We need to make our priorities very clear. There can be no superstructure without foundation. The foundation is its own industry and its own economy. All the other options lead to only one – either poverty and eternal dependence on foreign loans, or worse, the preservation of Ukraine's role on the side of European civilization. Is that the future we want for our country? Therefore, only a radical change in the country’s economic course, a radical change in monetary policy, will make every effort to support the protection and development of its own production and business. As Poland has done, as Turkey has done before, as China and Malaysia have done. Ukraine is one of the richest countries in Europe, only to be managed properly, in the interests of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u38	Please, the next speaker is Oleg Berezuk. Sidorovich also conveys the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I certainly agree with the previous statement that a strong economy is the guarantee of a successful state and the success of our citizens, but the level of protection of human rights is decisive. In Ukraine today, there is a sad second place in the number of appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. This suggests that violations of citizens' rights, human rights violations are systemic. This bill needs to be adopted not only because our strategic partner of the United States is asking us to do so. We must do so in order for a person to feel protected so that when he gets into trouble, he understands the way he can defend his rights. As a national deputy, I was repeatedly approached by our citizens, who became the subject of human trafficking. We are obliged to adopt a bill that will provide effective assistance to those who are for their own or for their illiteracy or ignorance, which is our duty to our citizens and to all. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u40	Thank you. There are no more willing speakers. Regrettably, there is no way in the Presidium to sign up for discussion. I'm going to use my right to join the non-fractionals in discussing this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u41	I would like to appeal to the distinguished Radical Party, from which I have just spoken about a slightly different problem. Absolutely agreeing that for Ukrainian society today the topic of poverty and economics is one of the key, I want to call on you, my fellow Ukrainians, not to manipulate these concepts and to treat very delicately another topic, which is really, really crucial, if we're talking about change in Ukrainian society, it's human rights. And despite any choice, when a person chooses how to make a living and even chooses to emigrate, it's a person's choice. And this bill is totally different -- it's slavery that exists today in Ukrainian society, sexual crime, when Ukrainian women are just being smuggled out of the country and forced into sexual slavery. And I would ask you not to mix these things up. For good reasons, you want to introduce your economic problem, but human rights are no less important, and sometimes even more important. The more the Ukrainian’s rights are protected, the more economically he too will be protected. I didn't mention you in a negative context. I understand that you will support this bill, but I very much ask that we, on the other hand, respect the Ukrainian’s right to work, but also our duty, politicians, to protect human rights. And today, the question of slavery, including in occupied areas where Ukrainians are forced to work, where ours, those serving prison sentences, are forced into slave labor, is, in fact, trafficking in human beings. And we must protect them, as well as strengthen the responsibility of those who are forcing people into slavery today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u42	Colleagues, so in a minute, we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. I ask the heads of factions to invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. From now on, Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalija Volodymyrna's report concludes. And, colleagues, in a minute, a vote, I ask everyone to come into the hall. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u43	Thank you very much. I want to thank the distinguished Ruslan Mikhailovich, the other people's deputies who supported this bill on the committees. I want to say that we fully understand the responsibility of different levels of budgets and the payment of material assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings as foreseen in this bill, as well as in the existing government budget, so this will not be the cost of local budgets, I am commenting immediately on this. On the other hand, I would like only one piece of information to be provided to you by the honourable national deputies. Just two weeks ago, on Tuesday, we met two of our citizens from Azerbaijan at our Borispol Airport. They spent 20 years, one year, the other 22 years in labor slavery. The fact that there is an active law in Ukraine, and we are improving it now, among other things, so that the responsibility for this terrible crime is not reclassified in the courts and the punishment for criminals was not smaller, we ask you to support this bill, it is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u44	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. I urge everyone to take up their jobs. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on increasing opposition to human trafficking and protecting the victims (No. 6125) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Please be supportive. Please vote 6125 on the basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:53:14]] For 222 Leonid! Leonid! Well, that's irresponsible! You're a responsible politician! You could say, "European." I see. I can see the oyster. That's one voice. Leona, two votes. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Well, don't embarrass yourself or the Supreme Council! Please take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on increasing resistance to trafficking and protecting victims (No. 6125). Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:54:29]] For 232 Decision taken. And now I'm putting Law 6125 on the ground. Please vote. And I'd like your support, colleagues, on the ground. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Vote. [[16:54:58]] For 232 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (conforming to international standards). It's the same block of questions. 6243. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[16:55:37]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on three bills, which are a comprehensive improvement in the situation of trafficking in human beings in Ukraine and outside of Ukrainian citizens who have gone on earnings that have been married or married, have moved to another territory without changing citizenship. The first bill was a bill by the Cabinet of Ministers, where the State commits itself to helping victims of trafficking by creating shelters, by granting them appropriate status, by supporting those who have suffered this crime, and they need moral, psychological, and legal support. The bill that is now being proposed to your mind is to increase compliance with this crime. It's just official data. The real number of victims can only be guessed. According to the United Nations in Ukraine, there may be up to 160,000 victims each year. The main target countries where victims of criminal offences committed in Ukraine are: Russia, Poland, Turkey, Germany, Israel, Greece, United Arab Emirates To achieve the goal of bringing article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine into line with and punishing the United Nations Convention against National Organized Crime and its Protocol on the Prevention and Cessation of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, it is proposed that the matter be resolved as follows. To recognize three elements of the objective aspects of crime and to foresee that human trafficking is recruitment, displacement, concealment, transfer or possession of persons who are committed for the purpose of exploitation, using deception, blackmail, and vulnerability.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u46	Please let me finish for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u47	Or by bribing a third person. It is equally important to establish responsibility for trafficking in human beings, regardless of the existence of the consent of the victim, or if any coercion is applied to it. Dear colleagues, taking into account the significance of this issue and taking into account the huge number of victims that I have just mentioned in this official statistic by the United Nations, please support the bill of 6243 and recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, for my co - report now, I have to invite the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Mr. Kožemjakin. As far as I can tell, his deputy will report. Mr. Palamarczuk, please have a word with me. The wrong information for the co-rapporteur is given in our rules. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u49	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on September 20th, 17th, the Committee considered the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 149 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code (as regards compliance with international standards) (registration number 6243). The law proposes to introduce article 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code in a new edition, which, inter alia, provides a new definition of "trafficking in human beings", establishes responsibility and additional qualifications for the composition of this crime. It takes into account the positive direction of the bill, as well as the Ukrainian obligation to implement the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its protocols, the Committee supports the bill and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u50	Thank you. So the committee believes that this bill in the first reading is only for us to vote. Colleagues, is there a need for discussion or do we vote? There is a need for discussion. I'm asking you to sign up from factions for discussion, two for, two for. Colleagues insist on discussion, so please. Please, Mrs. Yuzkova is passing it on to Oleg Lazka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I am sure that most of you are aware of the simple truth: human rights are inseparably linked to a standard of living. Does this person work, or does he have sufficient income to feed his family to put children on their feet? When a family lacks income, when people beg for money, it is the first human rights violation. Since the Radical Party team, my team, we are apologists for the protection of Ukrainian rights, we believe that the best defense of Ukrainian rights is to be a strong country, a strong economy, working people, decent wages and decent income. Our team has registered a number of bills in Parliament that will allow you to upgrade, upgrade core funds, reduce energy efficiency, create new jobs, trade not raw materials, but ready products. And that's all the key. In order to increase the income of Ukrainians. So that people don't beg, so people don't sell their vote in elections, so people don't go abroad to make money. To enable Ukrainian people in their home country to realize that Ukrainian youths, when they learn, are no longer looking for a dream from childhood where to go abroad to realize themselves, and so that they can achieve everything, work, earn, and give birth to new children in their home country. The politics of today’s government robs Ukrainians of the future, this policy condemns poverty, begging, and eternal dependence. We want Ukraine on the brink of world progress. The whole world is moving forward, and we're going to take it back, and they're hanging a paw on our ears, telling us that they're reforming. Reform must be one thing: Ukrainians work and decent wages, then a strong country, a strong economy, a strong army and a future.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u52	The next speaker, please, from the Opposition Block, is the Pavlov People's Deputies. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u53	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Opposition Block, Dnipropetrovsk district, Curve Rig. You know, the protection of human rights is certainly the most important issue in the work that we are currently doing. And the Opposition Block is consistent in its actions and its actions. That's why the Opposition Block will support this bill, because given the situation in which our citizens are quite often exposed, it is certainly necessary to protect their rights and their freedom. And that's the most important question, I think, for all the people's MPs. That's why the Opposition Block will support this bill. And we propose that we all support this bill as the most important thing in our lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u54	Thank you for your position, for your support of the bill, and for your good Ukrainian language. I now ask the deputies to gather, because we will proceed to the vote. Dear Mr. Miroshnichenko, your colleague has already made a statement on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u55	No, we don't have it under the Rules, you'll be joining the discussion next. We still have a few bills in this block. Yes, please. Dear colleagues, please return to the workplace, we are now going to vote in favour of Bill No. 6243, the draft Act amending Article 149 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u56	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So that we don't go back to the vote, I ask everyone to come into the room and prepare for the decision. Can we move on to making a decision? We can't yet, we're still waiting. Please come into the hall. You guys don't get to run sometimes. Ten seconds to vote. Please enter the hall, take your seats. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to bring it into line with international standards) (No. 6243) on the basis of a committee proposal. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Will you hold on, colleagues? Please vote. We vote in agreement and responsibly. Please be supportive. [[17:06:21]] For 236 Decision taken. And the last draft law on this block is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from intermediation abroad (No. 6275). And I'm asking you to support the proposal, to consider this bill in a simplified way. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:07:04]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful that you have responded with such a serious responsibility to this problem that exists in Ukraine, in particular. A few digits. 5,000 children, just as missing this year in Ukraine as a month in August. Not all of them just ran away from home, most of them went to the market for human trafficking. This is a major problem for Ukraine and a tragedy for every child who has to beg, engage in prostitution, sell, or be killed for the sake of biomaterials, trade, and so - called organ trafficking. Think about it, they kill our children, they kill our women, they kill our citizens. Anyone who does not consider himself to be a problem does not have the right to call himself a person, and a society that does not try to combat it cannot consider itself civilized. So I'm asking you to put all the cases down now and vote for the next bill. The volume of trafficking in Ukrainians in the money equivalent can be compared to the volume of exports of arms in Ukraine, as the United States likens these two markets: the market, the dark market in drug trafficking, to the same market in human trafficking. The third bill you're proposing is to strengthen control over businesses that are engaged in mediating Ukrainians abroad. This bill allows dissidents to control people sent abroad for additional functions, gives them additional executive functions, the Ministry of Social Policy and other authorities who control so-called media enterprises, licenses, and a report on whether all the people they sent abroad work officially, whether they're all protected or they're all contractual.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u58	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u59	Given the above and the terrible statistics that I have brought to you, please, dear colleagues, understandably refer to this bill, which actually closes the cycle. The State guarantees protection to victims, we increase the responsibility for trafficking in human beings, and we reinforce the authority of the authorities that control these businesses. Support the specified bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u60	Thank you. In my report, I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, Dennis Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on September 19, 2017, the committee supported the bill. The bill proposes to strengthen control over the activities of brokers, employment abroad, and to increase the responsibility for violations of human trafficking legislation in this area. It is also suggested that fines should be differentiated for violating licensing conditions through employment abroad. To date, the Employment Act of Ukraine defines only the need to obtain licences and sets out in a framework the order of business of the operators who provide such services. The committee supported the initiative of national MPs and stressed the need for regulation at the legislative level of anti-trafficking regulations. Among the positive points, the committee identifies the following, defined circumstances under which operators who provide services from intermediation, employment abroad will not have the right to engage in such activities. Then a person guilty of crimes against the will, honor, and dignity cannot be a natural person, an entrepreneur, or a member of a governing body or a supervisory board of a legal person engaged in economic activity in this area. Financial and administrative responsibility has been established and additional powers have been given to the Ministry of Social Policy on administrative matters, administrative misconduct, special departments of the National Police of Ukraine have been assigned to exercise control. So we ask you very much to support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Ludmila. And please record two in, two in, two in, against, please. Romanova, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u63	I give the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u64	Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u65	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Respectful colleagues, strengthening control over the activities of business operators who provide services to Ukrainian citizens from overseas employment agencies, are indeed a necessary step. However, I think if today the Supreme Council were to consider a bill that stimulates the economy, stimulates the development and increase of jobs, so that people would go less and more and more to Ukraine, stay in Ukraine and return to Ukraine. So unfortunately, all we're looking at is increasing control over people leaving. In fact, it's a bill. The bill really deserves support not only in strengthening control over the activities of such intermediaries but also in increasing the responsibility for violations of legislation in this area. The second positive novelty of the bill, what is assigned is a specific responsible one, namely, the cosmopolitans, and that's very true because every responsibility has its own name. However, self-help will be supported in the first reading with a number of observations, we ask them to take into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. First, according to the draft law, economic operators who provide services from foreign employment agencies are obliged to provide the district authorities with information on the number of persons employed by them abroad. In my view, we need to specify exactly who the central authority of the executive body is speaking to, because there are no territorial authorities in the city, and we need to be clear about who will receive this information. And the last. Part one of the first article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities suggests that the introduction of a type of commercial activity that is subject to licence-free licensing, or the exercise of such activities with a violation of the conditions of licensing, attracts officials to criminal and administrative responsibility in the order established by law. However, the criminal responsibility for carrying out business without a license in the Criminal Code of Ukraine is not foreseen, and the bill of amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine is not proposed. I think this needs to be corrected in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u66	Thank you. And, fellow workers, there will be few speakers. Now, from Peter Prashenko's Block to the word, we're invited to the Urban Alexander Igorovich, and then we're going to the vote. And so please invite everyone to the Hall, and the heads of factions, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council. Urban Alexander Igorovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u67	I want to give Mary Ion's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u68	Please, Mrs. Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, we now hear a lot of warnings, but I think we can work them out for a second reading. But let's just listen to the numbers. Because this problem of human trafficking is relevant in all parts of the world. And because. First of all, it's a crime that generates profits. Now, I'm going to give you figures that the U.N. Office of Drugs and Crime has annual income from human trafficking -- $10 billion to $12 billion. According to the International Labour Organization, the income from all forms of exploitation is $217 billion. As for the numbers that are in Ukraine. According to the report of the United Nations Institute for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been providing data since September The status of the person affected by human trafficking has been established as 443 citizens of Ukraine. In the current year, the status is 169. So I'm asking you to take these scary numbers into account, and yet, if there are any warnings, you have to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u70	Thank you very much. Colleagues, discussion over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. People's deputies, please. And as the MPs enter the hall, I give my word from the Ministry of Fedorovich Natalia. And please invite all the deputies to the hall. Fedorovich Natalia, one minute, government bed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we very much ask you to support this very important bill. It is very important because the structures that carry out mediation activities have to carry out this activity from the beginning and to the completion of the work, not only in the preparation of the issuance of documents, but rather in full responsibility for legal, official and human rights enforcement. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u72	Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. Please, we're taking up jobs. Ready? Vote. I'm voting on the draft Amendment Act. I'm waiting, I'm waiting. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of economic activity from a foreign employment intermediary (No. 6275). The committee's proposal: to support it as a basis, just as a basis. And I'm asking everyone to back me up, and I'm asking everyone to vote. If you'll excuse me, please vote 6275 as a basis. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:18:12]] For 208 Not everyone's in. We'll be waiting. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I ask everyone to invite colleagues who are not in the hall. I'd like you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Both the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions please invite you to the Hall. Please show the factions by factions, please vote by factions. There's a brief consultation going on, and I think they'll help us. Please come into the hall. I ask you to support the bill as much as possible. Don't go out there. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please, I'll be back in a minute. I'll take part in your discussion. That's just the basis. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u73	Dear Radical Party, it's only about voting as a basis. Please support in the first reading and then work together. Your team is strong, then it works on the second reading that it will be perfect, perfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u74	Ten seconds to go, we're going to have an intensive consultation. Please come into the hall at the time, take up jobs. I'll turn to you, colleagues. Oleg Valeriyovich, that's just the basis. I'm asking you to support me as a base. We will be able to work on who has the warning before the second reading. So, are you ready? I'm going to put my first proposal back on the vote, and then I'm going to put it on the ground. Please take up jobs. And I'm asking you to support everyone. So, colleagues. Come in, come in, colleagues, in the trenches, take your jobs. Ready? I propose to go back to voting for the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from intermediation in employment abroad. 6275. Ready to vote? So we vote for the return. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let us vote responsibly. Please vote for the return. Vote. Please support the return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:21:50]] For 214 12 votes, not all of them. Please show by factions. Block of Petra Poshenko – 102, National Front – 55, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 18, Radical Party – 12, Fatherland – 6, Will of the People – 1. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. That's the last question from this block. Please take up jobs. I see we haven't made it. I'm going to do it again. Please enter the hall, take your seats. I see the consultations have ended positively, so we have political unity in the hall. The main thing is to unite. Ready? Colleagues, let's do it. Come on, fellows, I'll put it back on. If it doesn't, I'll suggest we return to the committee. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote on the basis of draft Law 6275. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:23:15]] For 211 Colleagues, if I may. Attention! Please, if I put this on the committee for further work, is that supported? To the pre-work committee, to re-read. So that we don't reject the bill, it's back up again, right? Is it supported again first? Let's do it again. Let's do it again. Colleagues, one more time. This is a normal compromise, we need to support it. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. Now I'm voting for a re-reading proposal. I'm asking you to support, this is normal, this is a constructive, compromise offer. Ready? I would like to support the proposal that the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (No. 6572) should be returned. send it to the committee for re-reading, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. It's a compromise offer. Please support me, for the first time again. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:24:40]] For 230 Decision taken. Colleagues, let me ask you a question in the hall right now before I put something to the vote. I have a function that allows me to conduct a rating vote. And now I'm going to put a bill to support. Please concentrate. Don't leave the hall. Don't leave the hall. First. We have the following law, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to stabilize calculations in the U.S. Electricity Market. I'll put a rating vote on supporting this bill in the hall if there's no support, I'll move it. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. I'm not putting a bill on the vote, I'm putting it on the vote to support it. 6005, please vote on who supports us to move to this bill. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. If there's support in the room, we'll get to it. [[17:25:53]] For 185 There is no support. Next up, colleagues. I will address everyone very carefully because this question has been raised several times on the Conciliation Council. Next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men during military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. Let's, colleagues, support, move on to his consideration, and that'll be right, colleagues. This will be our important signal for both Ukrainian women and for our cooperation with the EU. I'm now putting a rating vote on the readiness of the hall to go to the consideration of this bill. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And please support everyone, colleagues. Ready? Can we vote? So I'm conducting a rating vote to support this bill, 6109. Please vote, please support. The rating vote. Vote. [[17:27:03]] For a hundred and So, colleagues, next. I'm asking you, colleagues, to mobilize as much as possible so that we can choose the laws that can now find support in the hall. I'll bet the next one on the rating vote. Proposal to move to the Act amending article 21 of the Law on military duty and military service (to improve the individual issues of payment of lump sum in the event of death, disability or partial loss of employment without establishing the disability of foreigners or stateless persons serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine). Who supports us moving to this bill now, please vote. It's a rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. [[17:28:15]] For 196 If all the factions were to vote, there would be a positive vote if everyone voted. Next, colleagues, may I have your attention? Next draft of the Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry (No. 6538) of the Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and the Act on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry (No. 6538). Please concentrate, and I am conducting a rating vote to support this bill, a rating vote. Please vote, please support. 6538. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:29:13]] For 158. Well, colleagues, if we have political differences, our next block is a block of issues that don't apply to politics, which are purely technical, which relates to the urbanization of urban settlements to the category of cities of district importance. This is a request from local communities. I think we can unite and vote, colleagues. I ask you to look closely now, we have an important block that we could never get to, and now we've reached it. The first draft of the Decision to place a town-type village called Reschetilovka in the region of Poltava to the category of cities of regional importance. This is the request of the communities, the communities are waiting for our decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs now. Colleagues, I'm asking these technical questions, which have only the support of local communities, to support the entire hall. And so we're going to go to Project Order 6550 and I'm going to propose that we have a brief discussion of it. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, for a reduced procedure. This is a question that, I'm sure, will support the entire hall without dividing into factions, into political parties. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:31:00]] For 185 Decision taken. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of the River Andrija Alexandrovich. Please, Andrew Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u75	Honorable National MPs. The village of the townlike Rešetylovka is an administrative, industrial, cultural center of the Reshetylov district of Poltava and is located 40 kilometers [40 km] from the district center. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities, Rešetilvka, the village, and the Potikav village rural community have merged into the Rešetil settlement united community. Taking into account that the village of the city-type Ressetilovka is located at the intersection of the main routes of public-state connections and is located in the center of the Poltava region, the population has prospects for further socio-economic development and investment. The question of the urban settlement of the Reschetylovka district of Poltava district to the territory of the towns of the district was agreed upon in accordance with legislation and considered. The decision - making village council and the Poltavian district council. The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government supports the submission of the Poltava District Council on the assignment of a town-type settlement of the Reschetilovka District of Poltava to the category of cities of regional importance. Please ask the National Deputies to support the relevant draft decree (register number 6550) and to accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u76	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u77	"The People's Front" is asking for support and a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u78	Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich from the Peter Dust Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u79	Honorable colleagues, requests for all to group together and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u80	Thank you. It's from the Rebirth Party. Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly ask you to support this decision because the Reschetylovka for today is one of the centers of Ukrainian national culture, a White White Red Cross embroidery not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole world. There are a number of powerful industrial enterprises working in Rechetilovka, and it depends very much on the vote on this regulation, as we vote because the number of jobs will only increase and there will be an increase in the local budget. Therefore, I urge you to support the draft decree and give the Rechetilovka the status of the city of regional importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u82	Thank you very much. From the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, Oleg Láško has the floor. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u83	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our powerful team for Reschetylovka, for Poltavščina, for our own country. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank the people of another famous town in Grebinka, which is 29 October 81 percent of voters for the mayor of the city of the Radical Party, 62 percent of the inhabitants of Grebinka for the radical party team, 16 out of 26 deputies to the united communities of Grebinz of the Radical Party. I urge all Ukrainians to follow the example of the people of Grebina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u84	Thank you. Now I'll give you a closing statement. Now I'll give you a closing statement. And I ask everyone to come to the hall, and to the heads of factions, and to the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. From the Opposition Block, we have a national MP, Mikhailo Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u85	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" has always supported our citizens. We will continue to be the most powerful supporter of all day in voting with a powerful faction. That is why I call on all Ukrainian national deputies to vote in favour of the Reschetylovka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u86	Thank you, colleagues. It's the will of local communities, let's support local communities. I ask everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Please invite who's in the towers in the hall. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a draft decree to place a town-type settlement of the Reschetylovka District of Poltava to the category of cities of district importance (No. 6550) on the basis and overall, as proposed by the committee. Please support the local community, please vote. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:37:23]] For 215 Not all made it, not all of them. I see we're not. Please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll be right back. Please inform the MPs by fact, because some have voted against. Please come into the hall, colleagues, invite the deputies into the hall, take your seats. Please, colleagues, take up your jobs. Ready? Everybody in place? Don't leave the hall. Nadia! Nadia, back, Nadia, in the trench. Ukraine is calling. So, colleagues, I ask you to unite, and I'm putting to the vote the offer to go back to the vote for Reschetylovka, a colleague for Reschetylovka. Vote, 6550, please. We're voting for the Redemption. Please be supportive, every voice. [[17:38:49]] For 231 And so I'm voting on a draft decree to place a town-type village called Reschetylovka in the region of Polava to the category of cities of regional importance on the basis and as a whole. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support, we vote each voice has a weight. Vote. [[17:39:23]] For 226 As electoral legislation, we have passed this test before Parliament. Next we have a draft Decision on changes in the administrative structure of the Donetsk Region, amending and establishing the boundaries of the Slovenian region of the Donetsk Region (No. 6105). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:40:01]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite the reporter, Ukrainian National Deputy Kuril Vitali Semenovich. Who's going to report? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, this bill has been tabled by me in co-authorship with the National Deputy of Ukraine, Maxim Efimov. The purpose of this decision is to organize administrative and territorial relations in modern conditions and to ensure the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities. It is proposed that the city of Svetogorsk, Slovenian Town Council of the Donetsk Region, be assigned to the district category and transferred to the Slovenian district of Donetsk, thus increasing the territory of the Slavian region by 826 hectares [826 ha]. This will allow for the creation of an territorial community. So all questions are in agreement. The question is agreed with the Slovenian City Council. The question is accepted by the military-civil administration. The question is accepted by the city of Svetgorski. And the question was discussed on the committee, and the committee unanimously agreed to move to the hall and vote. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u88	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Mr. Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u89	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Andria Paruba, discussed at its meeting on 5 April 2017 the draft of the Supreme Council Regulation on Changes in the Administrative and Territorial Arrangement of the Donetsk Region, the modification and establishment of the borders of the Slovenian district of Donetsk, introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Jephimov and Kuril. It is proposed that, after a comprehensive consideration of the issues by identifying the positions of the National Deputies, members of the Committee, in support of the continuation of the voluntary integration process of the territorial communities of the Donetsk Region, the Committee agreed: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, part one and part two, of the Supreme Council Regulation of Ukraine, a draft decree of the Supreme Council on changes in the administrative and territorial system of the Donetsk Region, amending and establishing the boundaries of the Slovenian region of the Donetsk Region (registration No. 6105), as a result of the consideration of the first reading, be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u90	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Wolf Victor Ivanovich, please. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u91	The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of changing the boundaries of the Slovenian region. An important problem for uniting communities. But I would like to draw the attention of my fellow MPs to other, equally important problems. This is the solution to the problems of our brothers and sisters — forced displaced people who lost their own home, their jobs, their benefits, and their assets as a result of Russian aggression on Donbas. Nearly 2 million people -- Ukrainians today without their own roof over their heads. The Radical Party team requires the government, when considering the draft budget for 2018, to anticipate billions of expenses for solving employment problems, and primarily housing for displaced persons. Throughout the country, hundreds and thousands of former kindergartens, schools, hospitals need to be equipped with batteries, windows, doors, and free of charge. Because today forced settlers, when taking down housing and paying for space money, do not benefit from the payment of utility bills and pay for housing and space utilities. Another problem I'd like to talk about. Transport with Mariupul. Part of my heart belongs to Mariupol because, along with Dmitr Link, Igor Mosiyczuk, other heroes, we made an effort to free Mariupol from Russian terrorists. Mariupol is Ukraine. We need to get Mariupol on a normal road. Yesterday, I had a meeting with the Prime Minister, where we discussed the question of whether Kiev-Mariupol, Mariupol-Lviv, would have a new train going fast. Reconstruction of the railway race of the Commission of Volnovach in order to increase transport connections with Mariupul, in order to further export products there, so that the people of Mariupol have more work and more pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u92	Thank you. From the "Peter Prashenko Block" to the performance is invited by Ribak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u93	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. We have discussed the draft decision thoroughly at the meeting and, taking into account the recommendations of the profile committee, we will vote and support the decision, as this is indeed an important issue for the Slovenian region in Donetsk. We also urge all to support our decision and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u94	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the word is Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u95	Many of the bills discussed in this room are related to the question of the united territorial communities. I believe that the question, but my colleagues in the opposition bloc faction, the change in the administrative boundaries of any population -- whether it's the Donetsk region, the Ternopil region, the Lviv region -- cannot be linked to the united territorial communities, because it's not voluntary to call this process either way. Because at the level of the budget, within the framework of the so - called budgetary decentralization, populated areas, villages, villages, cities of district importance, article 69 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, have deprived the financial base of a tax on the income of natural persons by shifting the tax returns to the unified territorial communities or to the district budgets. We note that it is compulsory to unite the territorial communities, to make them more expensive to health care, to education, to translate from the state budget into them. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved a strategy for the priority development of the territorial communities, that is to say, unification takes place not from the bottom but from the top. And with regard to internally displaced persons, the opposition bloc did not once submit draft laws relating to the protection of their property rights. But unfortunately, this room speaks of one thing, and when it votes, it does something else. As for the protection of the interests of the uncontrolled areas of Donetské, Lugansk region, the valid bill No. 7000 of the Ukrainian State Law on State Budget for the following year provides for the suspension of payments of State debts for pensions, wages and other scholarships to persons living in uncontrolled areas. We've submitted a project to undo this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u96	Add to that, huh? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u97	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We've made proposals to cancel the reported disgraceful situation, which was in another Ukrainian state-of-the-art law for the current year. But in doing so, the coalition does not support the proposals. Of course, it is necessary to help people, especially internally displaced persons, and to consider and listen to their problems. Not just talking about the reintegration of Donbas without listening to the thinking of those who live.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u98	Thank you. And now from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u99	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support this bill. This is for the benefit of our communities. And we do everything in this room, and we are very grateful to all the factions that have unanimously supported such important bills. They're really important. Because there are people waiting for such positive decisions. The people on the scene are waiting to support the voluntary unification process of the territorial communities, which has been initiated for three years by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, which we are now continuing. A recent election took place in the united territorial communities. December 24th is the next election. And our responsibility, along with assigning these elections, is to help united communities to allocate additional funds for infrastructure projects. So yesterday we signed a bill that will allow us to redistribute an additional 13 billion dollars this year, of which 7.6 billion dollars will go to finance a grant programme so that our socially vulnerable species can go through the heating season peacefully. Over a billion dollars goes to the socio-economic development of our communities. And so by voting and supporting these bills, I urge you to vote on Thursday also for changes to the budget this year and we will give additional funding. In particular, I want to make sure that this session room has the unanimity support of those communities where the elections need to be held. My native Chernivs suffer from the strength of the former regions that won there now and the creeping rematch of the regions took place. We've registered with my colleague Mikola Fedoruk a bill on the appointment of the Montenegro City Council's consecutive election, because (listen) 380 million dollars still lie on accounts undistributed because they don't know how to crack. They've been decimated at Yanukovich, and they want to do it now. So, dear colleagues, once again, I urge you to support these decisions and to continue to support our communities, as well as the re-elections in the communities where this situation has come to light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m1.u100	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Please take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Please, everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. This is a question that has been agreed upon with local communities that have long been waiting for their solution. And let's give it to the Ukrainian communities. And I'm voting on a draft regulation on changes in the administration of the Donetsk Region to change and establish the boundaries of the Slovenian region of the Donetsk Region (No. 6105) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:52:17]] For 201 No votes. Return to the pre-work committee, do you support it or not? No, right? Colleagues, but I'm forced by the Rules. I mean, as far as I know, let me do it again. Guys, I'll put it back on. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Once again, I am putting forward a draft Decision on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Donetsk Region and the establishment of the borders of the Slovenian region of the Donetsk Region (No. 6105). Please support, please vote, the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:53:12]] For 201 No votes, colleague. There is no unity in the room for that reason, the decision is rejected. Come on, then, I'll follow the next decision as to whether there's a willingness of the Hall Please prepare, colleagues. The next thing we know, if there's voices under it, we go if we don't, we don't go. Next, the Law on Change and Establishing the Borders of the Ternopil Region (6296). I am conducting a rating vote to support this ruling. Please vote, please support me, this is a support rating vote, please vote, the Ternopil Coasts. [[17:54:04]] For 199 My colleagues, unfortunately, have no votes, and there's really no time to look at it, because there's only five minutes left. And we're just not going to be able to consider even the short-term bill. As Irina Heratchenko points out, we cannot violate the Rules. And that's the principle position. Colleagues, it's been a hard day, but it's been a very fruitful day. And I thank everyone for their productive, active work during today's plenary day. Tomorrow is the least important day of ratification. So I'm asking everyone to come to the hall tomorrow at 10 o'clock to continue our work is not an easy one, but a necessary one for the country of work. And now the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you all. Good-bye.
