ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow officers, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register. [[13:06:27]] There are 338 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Mikolaiovich Dmitrenko. Let's welcome our colleague. Welcome to your birthday. And, colleagues, we should have 30 minutes at the beginning of the session for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. But before that, I would like to report on the results of the work of the Conciliation Council. And I ask everyone, colleagues, to listen to me carefully. Attention! Colleagues, on the Conciliation Board, had a very sharp discussion, unfortunately, the Conciliation Council was closed at a certain stage. And I want to tell you about the outcome of our meeting. But before that, I'd like to say that we also raised philosophical questions on the Conciliation Council, questions about the stages of the struggle for Ukrainian statehood, and in 1990, in 1991, when we were winning the Ukrainian state, and the orange field, and the Dignity Revolution. I said that I had the privilege of participating actively in all those stages. And I want to stress that I am a proponent of a permanent dialogue between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and society. And this dialogue has to happen to all of Ukrainian society. We had planned a medical reform today. And on the Conciliation Council, by surveying factions' heads, most factions have confirmed that today, at the request of society, medical reform must be initiated. At the same time, I am fully aware of the demands that are being discussed today under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as a number of factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I am ready to say my personal position in each of these positions. First of all, by the touch. I've always been, and I'm a fan of taking off the touch. Today, we have a bill in the Supreme Council, which has been tabled by 150 deputies, which is registered, and we have a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent bill on the elimination of inviolability, which the President has repeatedly stressed in his speeches. And now, from the rostrum, as on the Conciliation Council, I give the commission of the Committee of Legal Policy, Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch! – to consider these two bills without delay, and as soon as they are considered, to my conviction, they must be put into the hall and considered. He's reading the bill. Next, I want to let you know that I've always been, and I'm a supporter of open electoral lists. Moreover, a codex registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on open lists was filed and registered by my authorship as Ukraine’s national deputy. I held five working groups on electoral legislation, and we turned to all factions to give the factions their position. Sadly, no faction of its position gave out. But these laws are ready to be considered, and we can go completely beyond those bills after the medical reform and after the issues of removing the inviolability. With regard to the Anti-Corruption Court. I'm the one who sent the submission to the Venice Commission to get the authority of the most professional international body. And we've come to a conclusion today that provides for the repeal of those bills that are there and for the introduction of a new bill. Thus, out of three requirements today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can move on to two requirements. And that's why I'm giving the Conciliation Board a mandate to publish the weekly schedule of plenary meetings. And it provides that after the medical reform issues, two questions will be asked about the elimination of the inviolability, two bills, and then the bills that apply to electoral reform. And I think this is an approach that is able to compromise in the hall and that gives a clear answer that the Supreme Council of Ukraine hears society and hears the demands of society. At the same time, I find it unacceptable and blocking the Conciliation Council to be unacceptable and blocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to remind you that all the stages of the great trials or stages of the acquisition of the Ukrainian statehood or the Orange Revolution or the Dignity Revolution, in fact, the Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was the course that stabilized the situation and brought Ukraine out of the crisis. And I think that trying, trying to break up Parliament's work, trying to discredit the Ukrainian Parliament -- it's a job against Ukraine, it's a job against Ukrainian national interests. And I want to say that we must all not let Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be blocked together, so that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is ruined. Millions of Ukrainians are awaiting medical reform, and I believe that, like all other reforms, Parliament can take a good path and make a positive decision. And then, once again, I stress, we will immediately consider the issue of inviolability, and after the inviolability, we will immediately move on to all the laws that apply to electoral reform. This is my message, and I would like all of us here in this room to respect each other and to ensure today's full and constructive work by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Agreed? Let's work! Colleagues, according to the Rules, we are moving on to the performances of the Ukrainian National Deputies from factions. I want to remind you that today the factions are speaking. And I'm asking all the factions and groups to prepare for the recording, and I'm asking you to record for statements from the rostrum. Please. From the "will of the people" to the word, Litwin Vladimir Mikhajlovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u2	Honorable national MPs, there is a well - known cross - minded truth: the task of the State is not to create a paradise on earth, but the task of the State is not to make the lives of people on earth finally hellfire. Evidently, there is good reason to claim that the Ukrainian authorities have succeeded in realizing the second part of this sensation. Now, I've been listening to the Conciliation Council today, thinking about the MPs who worked in the districts, they're going to talk about the problems that are causing people. But on another occasion, I became convinced that it was a fair of hypocrisy. They talked about what they really don't share, but they talked about liking the trend they're trying to set in Ukraine today. During a meeting in a remote village, an elderly woman said: "Why do they keep saying? And what do they keep talking about? Do you not understand that we understand what is behind these words? Do they really not understand what they are saying about what is not happening in life? That we are simply dying out of your reforms." There has already been a reform in education. The pension reform was done. The results of the impressive pension reform were discussed. Today, you're going to get your courage, as it were, in your paws, when you get your team, vote for the so-called medical reform. And I think the next one will be another draft law on the land market, and then Ukrainian countries will be buying without people. Because now they're selling and reselling the land with people, and so they will, a perfectly clean field will be worked out. People are dying, and Kiev is reforming. I think that the authorities, including us here in the session room, haven't tasted what people feel. I think we'd be tempted by tongues and less praying about reforms and European choices. As much as you can fear by war, by street, and by looking for enemies. We'll all be enemies soon, all of Europe. We'll be just the two of us. People say, you think we're fed with waste, don't you? We understand what you're fighting for. Just fight for the bark. And one more moment. What type of dissatisfaction can people experience when a price for gas is established with the International Monetary Fund? It might be better to invite the International Monetary Fund to be a government, it would cost the country less. And finally. I propose that when you do, you go through all the amendments to the Medical Reform Act, publish it before you sign it, so that people can see the happiness of the next time you throw it at them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u3	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the word is given to Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, last week we presented you with a bill called "Buy Ukrainians - Pay Ukrainians". Under this bill, more than forty national deputies were signed. But I must say that the bill has not yet been registered. Because they come up with all kinds of reasons not to be able to register a bill. The name, you see, doesn't like "Buy Ukrainian - Pay Ukrainians." Apparently, they want us to call it something else, like 26 years of politics: don't pay the Ukrainians, don't buy the Ukrainian. And then it's obviously going to be a bill. Maybe it's good for you. Maybe it's not good for us. I want Ukrainian stores to have Ukrainian goods made by Ukrainian people and have people earn a decent salary for their work. Last week there was a report that Poland refused a $10 billion loan that was to be borrowed from the International Monetary Fund. Poland used to come to us, Ukraine, for cowards, for nostrils, for brooms, and for teapots. You remember this "honor tourism," and a lot of people made a lot of money on it. Today they're refusing loans. And we're like drug addicts behind a needle, and we're running for credit. The entire delegation went to the International Monetary Fund. And that's what the IMF report says. The IMF is negotiating a gas price for Ukrainians. The IMF has agreed on the terms and conditions for the sale of Ukrainian land. The IMF discusses the issue of Ukrainian retirement age. But it's not an IMF issue. That's our question! What should we talk about? On reducing interest rates on credit, on tax cuts, on stimulating and restoring our own economy, on creating jobs for Ukrainians. It's not about selling raw materials, it's about finished products. It's not about buying imported goods, it's about Ukrainian goods! On raising wages for Ukrainians! Retirement for pensioners! That's what the politics of the Ukrainian state should be. If we don't change politics, we'll never "get off this drug needle of credit," we'll never get rich, we'll never be worthy! And Ukraine will not be a great state. The Radical Party, my team, is proposing a different policy. Jobs for Ukrainians, high wages, secure old age, worthy of pensions, development and support of national production, restoration of peace in Ukraine and territorial integrity, protection of the state, security of the state are key requirements that will enable us to be winners in the modern, global, hard, dragon world! We have to win! Everyone's running the Radical Party program, you bastards!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u5	From the People's Front, the word is given to the leader of the Burbaku Maksim faction. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, and above all, dear Ukrainians, I want to say in warehouses, even because some of our colleagues don't hear this or refuse to hear that the People's Front faction, our political power supports the removal of immunity from national MPs and judges. We support open-label elections and we stand for high-quality anti-corruption litigation. We have repeatedly stressed and argued about all these standards. In its entirety, the People's Front voted in favour of the replacements to the Constitution in the first reading concerning the immunity of MPs. We voted in favour of the Attorney General's Office to remove the inviolability of coalition deputies. As this Parliament and Henprocuror have abolished the inviolability, this has not yet been the case in the history of Ukraine, this is the first time that it has been removed from the MPs of the predominant coalition. We welcome the President's introduction to Parliament of a new draft law on the elimination of inviolability, but this bill must be completed in accordance with the Rules. So, Andriy Volodymyrovich, we support your initiative to give a task to the profile committee as soon as possible to consider and submit to the hall. The other one. The Venice Commission criticised both anticorruption laws. I remind you that the People's Front has repeatedly proposed that we create working groups and work on a new quality bill that regulates the anti-corruption system in Ukraine. Thirdly, the People's Front has always advocated open lists in electoral legislation. Five bills for open lists are now needed in Parliament, but a quality bill is needed. I will constantly remind all the factions that actively campaigned for the electoral legislation bill in the local elections and remind them of how the 2015 elections went. Under this law, 30 percent of the districts have no members of the local councils. For example, there is no member of the country in the Montenegrins in the district where I personally live, for such a bad bill. Changes to electoral legislation should be qualitative. All these changes must be considered and with a cold mind. So the People's Front faction suggests: first, consider the planned medical reform, all of us, proposed by millions of Ukrainians. This is the urgent reform that society is now demanding, which is a medical reform. And then we're going to change to electoral legislation. As the head of the faction, I can tell you in a responsible way that people have your election to the lamppost, they need medicine now, because they need to survive. So the election, and once again, I want to remind you, is going to be in 2019, and then you're going to be doing your politics. And to all those who make a difference, I can simply advise you to work in the session room and in the committees of profile, or do not interfere with others. The attempt to destroy Parliament can also prevent us from adopting Bill 7163 as a whole: the legislative establishment of Russian aggression in Donbassa and the recognition of the temporary occupation of ORDLO.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u7	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u8	The People's Front won't let this bill be buried. In the near future, we should redraft and vote. And there, at the request of the People's Front, I repeat, for those who don't hear, there will be no Minsk agreements, we will not be allowed to legitimize the Minsk Accords in domestic law. And the next. We have a budgetary process ahead of us, and let's work responsibly because this is where we were chosen to reform the country and restore the European state of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Wilkul's Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u10	Dear people of Ukraine, there is no mention of this, but today the Council has begun to work through an underground transition through which MPs have gone to the hall. Thousands of people surrounded Parliament, and these are the people who brought you into power three years ago. And they already realize they've been deceived. Instead of disbanding this Parliament, the authorities produce so - called reforms that only make people's lives worse. Yes, the authorities have budgeted a police state with poor people and a groaning economy. Compared to the 17th year budget, 50 percent of the budget is proposed to increase police and prosecutorial spending, while Kabmin, the Supreme Council's apparatus, is 70 percent. Compared to the 13th year, there is a threefold increase in the cost of silos, with the minimum pension and salary rising by just over 50 percent. That is, the authorities compensate for the inflation within themselves, at the expense of the people. The task of the budget proposed by the authorities for the following year is to combat dissension. The authorities have to feed the power structures well in order to fight those who can no longer live as long as 90 percent are in a mood. We need to consider an alternative budget project developed by the opposition. It provides for a substantial increase in social benefits, not because of the inclusion of new credit costs, but because of the working economy and the optimisation of silos. And to support industry, we demand that we adopt our bill package from the new industrialization and budget proposal for investment and innovation. In the 18th budget, the authorities offered only 50 million dollars for innovation. To compare, it is only one day’s spending on the TVS and the Henprosecutor’s Office, and health reform is called upon only to speed up people’s departure to that world. Yes, we have major medical problems. But the proposed reform is another lie to make people pay even more for treatment. In fact, it is based on the further closure of hospitals. Translating patients into health care financing and creating new corruption schemes They want to create an agency that will hand-in-hand divide 97 billion dollars into medicine by removing them from the regions. Exclusion in the regions of the medical subsidy will lead to a reduction in the financing of medical institutions with further closure, privatization of premises and land. The opposition bloc will vote against the so-called medical reform, as voted against the educational and pensionist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u11	From Self-Help, Egor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u12	We have a request and advice to all who are in this room, go out to the people right now, talk to them. These are actually the best people in the country, these are the people who did Euromaiden, these people who were protecting and protecting our independence, these are the people who are the real citizens in the greatest sense of the word. They came today with very good intentions, they came to help the Ukrainian Parliament make a decision in the interests of Ukraine. Saying "come" to them after tomorrow, saying "come in a week" is the way to nowhere. Such good intentions are turned into evil, so good intentions become protests, so good intentions become collisions. In our power and in our ability today to avoid all of this. Self-help and many colleagues from other factions are willing to do their utmost to make the decisions go through and through in accordance with Parliament's Rules. If the President passes the Anti-Corruption Court Bill today, I'll be the first to ask the Council to withdraw our bill, just like any other decision, we're willing to seek agreement. But, gentlemen, these people can't be played with. Andrew Paroby, the other people we were with in Eromaydan! No, it's a fire, it's a force to guard, but you can't joke about it. I want to tell everyone who's in this room, the thicker the law enforcement forces around the Supreme Council, the more the indignation of the Ukrainians who are going to break down these forces. You and I have one way out: to invite people here, their representatives to come out, to talk to all the participants in the rally, and to find solutions today that will lead this country in a civilized European way. I want to contact the Minister of Health, all colleagues from the government. You know how we support and support you, but the citizens are wise, and you and I understand that very well. Until we overcome top corruption in this room, we will not destroy it in the government, in the President's Administration, there will be no health care for good or good pensions, nor will there be any defence of good, as the latest investigations of the anti-corruption office say. Let's do what the responsible representatives of any parliament will do. When we are surrounded by thousands of people, we will meet them together and make the necessary decisions for the country. Go out to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u13	Thank you. From Peter Dustenk's Block, Sergei. Who's speaking? From the BPP, please, Sergey Berezenko, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u14	Dear fellows, dear Head! I still wanted to talk today about a reform that has not yet been adopted by Parliament. We went through educational, judicial, pension reform, and we voted on a number of very important laws this fall. But all present in this room in their own time went to elections with the same promises, to improve the well - being of those who fall within the budget and, in particular, in the health sector. I'd like to ask what we've done for them all this time. Not to mention at all what we are experiencing in the medical field, but specifically for every doctor who saves every day people's lives who can at present save the lives of one of our loved ones. These people are working for cash today, they have no chance of staying in Ukraine and being doctors in our hospitals, they have nothing to work with, and they have nothing to work for. We understand perfectly, and we can ask ourselves, where is modern technology, where are the active drugs, where are the new technologies? The health sector today requires immediate changes. And Bill 6327, which we all, or the vast majority of the deputies in this room support, is a real chance to change the system. The old Samashka system, which has long been out of existence, is still operating in Ukraine. Let's face it, there's no point in paying for a bed-place, as we've been doing for many years, for the number of whom we have fourth place in the world. At the same time, Ukraine is the continent’s leader. We have ten dead Ukrainians today -- seven who died of cardiovascular disease in the 21st century in central Europe. We need to move away from the bed-and-dwelling systems to the financing of health care. We have to give a new quality of payment, and, most importantly, it has to be transparent and effective. The proposed medical reform is the result of the fine work of many of you. You all came to the committee, almost all the factions worked in working groups. We have done a great deal since the first four laws of the government were introduced in the hall this spring. Today, 886 amendments to the second reading are handled by a committee and supported by a committee that does not talk about anything. And to this day only those who are critics and who have really done nothing to improve reform want to be abstracted from considering this law, actually agreeing to the existing state of affairs. The "Peter Prashenko Block" is urging you to move away from political slogans, let's start today with medical reform, vote it out. And we will give way, if not us, to future generations to live in a normal, civilized world, in the European Ukraine. Thank you. Support med reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u15	Thank you, you. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! You have all come to this room solely because of the trust that people have given you. And they expect every deputy today that people won't be too busy in this room, and people today are too cheap, not just in this room, they're too much in the country. Thousands of people are under the Supreme Council. Do you think their happiness brought them here? No, it's not. They have come to support those requirements that have been formulated by leaders of public organizations. These three requirements are very clear. First. People demand, not words to stop corruption, but to create an Anti-Corruption Court, which, by the way, may be independent of the President and his environment. Because people are wise they know that all corruption in Ukraine comes from the President and his environment, not just down in random people. And that's why the Anti-Corruption Court, independent of the President of Ukraine, is the way to really attract such large-scale corruptionists to power, and no one will protect them. This means that electricity tariffs will be considered, which are based on the Rotterdam Plus principle, which is the biggest corruption in the state where the President takes part. The other one. Price, gas tariffs. Obviously, there's mega-corruption in NAC Naftogazi, with the mafia that worked for many years. The Anti-Corruption Court can consider this independently. And a lot of other things that will protect the budget from being washed through corruption schemes on offshore companies. And, of course, we've seen that the Ministry of Defense, unfortunately, is not an exception, and that today, just as many billion contracts are signed with completely artificial, non-existent companies, and this money for the Mini-Defense will not go to the defense of our state, but will go back to the offshore accounts of people who are close to the President. Therefore, the Anticorruption Court needs to be able to save every penny and set the standard of living for people. The other one. It's a removal of the MP's immunity. Please tell me it takes five minutes in this room to vote on this. Why does this not apply to people’s demands? And there goes selective justice when those who actually engage in corruption in this room are beyond both responsibility and law. And the third. It's electoral legislation. And it's not just about legislation, it's about people getting up every time in the revolution, and every time after the revolution, it's about counterfeiting, it's about imperfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u18	It is thanks to counterfeiting that once again the Mafia comes to power after every revolution. Dear friends, support the people standing on the street, immediately put all three laws to the vote and vote, and then it will be sincerity in this room, not lying to them from all quarters.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u19	So, colleagues, the factions are finished. But I have three motions for a break on my desk. The first was the faction of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front, and they're ready to change the break for the performance. And I give you my word for it. And I give the floor to Irina Lucenko for three minutes. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, since we have taken a break from two factions, I will therefore turn from the factions of the coalition to the opposition we have honored — democratic, different: friends, do not break in the open door! The Supreme Council coalition, which consists of two factions, the Petra Prashenko Block and the People's Front, have repeatedly claimed their consistent position, which coincides fully with the successive position of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine. As early as 2015, President Poroshenko introduced a bill – amendments to the Constitution to which he proposed to remove the parliamentary integrity and inviolability of the judges. This bill did not find support among the MPs, nor did they want to find 300 votes, although it was a coalition position. Therefore, the President of Ukraine, in his bill, which he amended to amend the Constitution, removed the judicial inviolability. Its consistent position continues to this day: it registers an immediate bill recognized as urgent, 7203, on the removal of parliamentary immunity. Just now, our factions, the coalitions, have said that they will vote in favour of withdrawing the parliamentary immunity, so I ask you to support the entire room, to be consistent in your speeches and your vote. Next on the Anti-Corruption Court. The coalition continues its consistent position, which coincides with the President's successive position. In his bill on court and court, the President of Ukraine took a position, voted on it, signed it, and it acts, on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court in Ukraine. In the 2018 budget, funding for the establishment and operation of the Anti-Corruption Court has been put into effect since 18 at the insistence of the President of Ukraine. Please mention that, following the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which said to call off two parliamentary laws, because the President of Ukraine is the president of such bills, the President refers to all the factions of the Supreme Council: gather for a consultation, work out a piece of the law that the President, on the basis of his credentials, will introduce to the Chamber. So that we do not continue to consider the five thousand amendments we saw during the trial. Next, by electoral law. Our position, the position of the coalition as well as the President of Ukraine, is consistent. Ball in the field of the Supreme Council. The 5 bills already registered in the Supreme Council say that there is no only consolidated one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u22	There is no single consolidated position. So we call upon all factions, both coalitions and our venerable opposition, to gather for consultation and to work out this law. We're ready to support him. And the last. As chief commander, the president keeps his observation, supervision, and attention focused on the procurement of weapons, equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u23	Mrs. Irina, it's not often that we have the same rules for everyone. I'm going to let you finish now, but stay away from these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u24	I have to react. That's why the President is calling, given that it was by insisting on the Presidential faction, the President and the People's Front faction, that we voted in favour of creating the NAB, the Anti-Corruption Bureau, for e-declaration, to continue the impartial consideration of this issue of military fuel purchases, to conduct all necessary expertise. The President's last word. He won't or won't let you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Next we have an application for a break from the opposition block faction and the rebirth group, I'll give it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let them do it and then there'll be a break next. We have three applications, I'm announcing a second. Igor Storm, three minutes. And then there'll be a real break called Self-Help, Parenthood. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u26	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. Why is the medical issue so acute today in Ukraine? And I'll explain why. Because authorities today do not have the conceptual vision that the national health system should be. Today, authorities do not have a strategic understanding of how to make changes. And this bill, which is trying to prove to you all that it is a reform, has no bearing on health reform. This is a purely financial document, a document about money. You can't find any words about a health worker, you can't find a longevity, you can't find a health promotion, you can't find a disability, you can't find an increase in birth rates. This document is now aimed at creating a national health service that will single-handedly distribute 100 billion dollars. Is that a lot or a little bit? If we're going to introduce the English model as the Ministry tells us, then count it 44 times less than in England, the exhaust will be zero, there will be no reform. Moreover, this bill already contains information that this so-called reform will not be implemented. Why? Because it takes 5 percent of the gross domestic product. Today, the budget you sign for the minister in the U.S., 3.5 percent, is 30 percent of the money is missing. This is the way to corruption. There will be officials sitting there who have already been killed by 218 million for maintenance at the age of 18 and sharing money with whom to give and to whom not to give. Moreover, 3.5 percent of funding, including private medicine, is included. And it's going to be a drain. This includes funding for prominent medicine. This includes funding for the Academy of Medical Sciences. And we're going to have another September and October, and we're not going to have that kind of money again. And to conclude, I would like to address the President of Ukraine. Mr. President, why are you being set up by your factions? Here's the paper you've been offering us to read, the analytical help of the National Institute of Strategic Research to your annual letter to Parliament. It says here that these bills, which are called reforms, do not conform to the rules of the Constitution, violated 49 articles of the Constitution, violated 22 articles of the Constitution, 64 articles of the Constitution. In the first reading of a gross violation, 116 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules were violated. The Law changed its name, changed its essence. And today in this letter that you sent us, you wrote these bills cannot be adopted without further work. So as it turns out, your deputies are going to vote on the bill and they're going to make you sign what you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u28	prohibits the signing of the Institute of Strategic Research. Citizens of Ukraine! I'd like you to remember by name those who vote in favour today. There are no medical agitators. In a year, the Ministry failed to conduct a college of the Ministry of Health to consult the medical community. This is a document that has nothing to do with medicine. And today's green button is the trigger of a sniper rifle, press kill medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the third request for a break from Self-Help and the Fatherland faction. The requirement is that I interrupt, I understand correctly, the requirement of a full-time break. And since this break is due to take a break from second to fourth, in order to realize my visions, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work. Thank you.
