ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration and register. [[10:04:58]] 336 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the people's deputies to Andria Fedorovich Antonishtak. Let's say hello to Andrew. [[Applause]] ♪ And in Irina ♪ The Peacekeepers of Konstankevitch. Hello. Mrs. Irina, welcome. [[Applause]] Also today is State Service Day. We're not civil servants anymore. We welcome the government of civil servants with the Civil Service Day. And today it's an hour of questions to the government. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, and members of the government are present in the Supreme Council. Welcome to the government. Not all factions applaud again. I'll remind you that we have statements from the government, and then 30 minutes questions from MPs and groups. Today's a talk from the government. To speak from the government will be Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Semerak Otsap Mihajlovich. We're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to the speech by Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u2	Good morning, distinguished national MPs, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich. I would like to start today's statement on the protection of the environment with thanks to the Ukrainian Parliament for having devoted a great deal of attention to legislation and the change in Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of European standards for the protection of the environment over the past few weeks. And last Friday, the seventh meeting of the parties, members of the Espoo Convention, was held under the auspices of the United Nations. The Ukrainian delegation was headed by the Minister of Ecology, where the entire international community noted the success that Ukraine had made in implementing European standards by adopting the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. I would also like to remind you that on our first reading, we adopted the Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment. And I very much hope, Andry Volodymyrovich, that the national MPs and all the factions that voted in favour of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act also support the next law, which is also very important. Today, I'd like to talk about a tool, a financial instrument for nature conservation is an environmental tax. Its main function is to compensate for the damage that society has done to the environment because of our entrepreneurial industrial activities, and this tool is designed to compensate for the environmental damage caused by active farming. In Ukraine this tax is paid by all businesses that pollute air, water, or soil. In fact, this is a European principle that is enshrined in European Union legislation. For the past few years, the Ukrainian State has experimented with the distribution of environmental taxes and the use of these funds between government and local budgets. On the proposed slide, you can see that 20 percent of the funds paid as environmental taxes are now part of the general budget, 25 percent of them are part of the special fund of urban, rural, and 55 percent of them are part of the fund. Special Fund for the District Budget. An analysis of the use of funds in recent years shows that the economy in Ukraine is being used very ineffectively. Last year alone, that is, in 2016, operators paid about 4 billion 222 million dollars, of which 842 million dollars came to the general fund of the state budget. In this year’s budgeting, only a fourth of these funds were allocated to the conservation program. Another part of this cost remained in the general budget fund, and were, of course, directed towards financing completely other tasks that were different from environmental management. Another 3 billion,368 million environmental taxes came to local budgets for the special funds of local budgets, and only 1 billion,122 million of them were used throughout Ukraine, accounting for only 32 percent of the funds that came to the local government’s special funds. In doing so, part of the funds were directed at measures that had no relation to conservation or temporary results, and part remained undeveloped and accounted for in local government accounts. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that Ukraine is a leader in countries where the mortality rate is 100,000 people per person from atmospheric pollution, and this leadership is, of course, a disgrace, and I think that we are together and the government, and the Ukrainian Parliament must combine their efforts to improve the rating position and, ultimately, to preserve nature for the proper life and preservation of health and life, with the rest, of every Ukrainian. In doing so, I would like to say that the biggest contributors to the economy in Ukraine are, of course, metallurgical, cellular, processing, residential and fuel-energy industries. 75 percent of the environmental tax comes from atmospheric air pollutants. And this is completely out of line with the statistics that I just talked about, referring to a study by the World Health Organization, where Ukraine takes an indecent first place. There's no secret that's long overdue the need for environmental modernisation of pollution companies. This is what we keep talking about here, in the session room, with the people's deputies, first of all the majors who are elected from Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk or Zaporez. And today was, by the way, no exception, we started talking to Alexander Kugel about pollution in the Dnipropetrov region and the Zaporozhye region. The path of modernization, the green modernisation of enterprises, is the path that the European Union has successfully passed in its time. And of course, environmental taxes must be one of the tools to get pollution companies moving as fast as possible. It's a normal practice for the world's leading countries, and so businesses that want to be competitive in today's world have to move towards modernizing their production. Unfortunately, as I've said before, huge amounts don't go to environmental taxes, but that tax doesn't actually play a major role in stimulating businesses to reduce negative impacts, because its size, its rate is so small compared to the necessary investments that entrepreneurs make decisions that they don't want to invest anymore. Understanding this state of affairs, the Ministry of Nature signed a Memorandum of Cooperation last year, and today we can talk about the first discounted loans that go to Ukrainian companies that are polluting the environment for their environmental modernisation. And I think we need to develop this tool and maybe consider using these unutilized financial instruments to stimulate this process. I would also like to announce from this high rostrum that the Ministry of Nature has updated the list of the largest air pollutants, the largest water and soil pollutants. And next week, we're going to publish this list in sections that will publish the information that the discards or damages are being made, and how does this compare with those of the same companies last year? Since the tax rate is extremely low, I mentioned this in order to become an incentive factor for manufacturing resupply, the rate must be increased and there has been a tendency in Ukraine for decades to destroy, and the irreversibility of environmental loss. I hope that this tool, the environmental tax tool, should help us solve our problems. In the process of amending budgetary legislation, the Ministry of Nature lost its core target financial resource, which was an environmental tax to the special State Budget Fund. It was a tool for financing conservation measures at national, regional, and local levels. Unfortunately, with the increase in environmental tax revenues, there is also an increase in relevance, as we understand that the increase in emissions leads to an increase in environmental taxes and the greater need for environmental protection. We feel accordingly an increase in the number of requests to the Ministry of Nature for co-financing of conservation measures. For example, last year the Ministry of Nature received 598 requests for a total of 4 billion 623 million. Almost the same amount as those requests was paid in Ukraine as a whole. But as I've already informed you, honourable national MPs, only 20 percent of this amount is included in the general fund, and a fourth of this is the only part of the State Budget Act in 2016 has been directed to the Ministry of Nature to fund the environmental programme. I also wanted to say that during 2014, 2015 and 2016, Ukrainian legislation changed and the corresponding base taxes changed, the rates changed, the bills changed where these costs were counted. Today, taxes on the state budget and its distribution between the state and local budgets over the past three years are clearly shown on the slide, unfortunately, it has already been missed, if you can go back, about the coming. The positive trends in financial decentralization and the increase in the income of the eco-tax should be noted. Yes, thank you. Next. The absence of consolidation between the special local budget funds of different levels is part of the special area budget fund, as a reminder, 55 per cent and 25 per cent are local budgets. They work very often in isolation and fail to achieve a common goal. The other one. There is no perfect fiscal legislation in part of tax administration, and that's what we see when we analyze revenue in different areas. Next. There is no mechanism for efficient use of local environmental tax administrations. As I said before, only 32 percent of these funds were channelled to environmental protection last year. At a time when we see terrible disgraceful situations on the rivers of Ukraine and last Friday on the "hour of questions to the government" we talked about, say, such a story in the Žitomirski and Hmělni district on the River of Svet and Humor. Regrettably, in order to solve environmental problems, local self - government authorities have frozen funds that have remained in their accounts since last year and have not been used. Since the government has set priorities in all areas, including conservation, and these priorities are set for the short term in three years, it is also appropriate to talk about the formation of medium-term special priority programmes that would be financed through public and local budgets and could be more effective. In addition, European directives and modern environmental principles must be followed. the necessary is the introduction of the European polluter pays principle. That includes environmental modernisation of enterprises, which includes taxation or payment of such costs for pollution from all types of pollution. For example, in 2015, vehicles, or mobile pollutants, were withdrawn from the payment of this tax. And, honourable national MPs, I would like to tell you that about 80 percent of air pollution in average Ukrainian cities is pollution from private and municipal transport. I will note that in the European Union countries there is a fairly high rate and a broad base of environmental taxation, including high revenues from the so-called stake tax, coming from countries of the European Union, taxing different types of motors and different types of fuel. Since the largest air pollutants are precisely transport agents, I consider it appropriate to go back to the question of expanding the environmental tax base just by paying for such payments from moving sources of pollution, or transport. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is a need to improve fiscal and tax legislation in part of increasing financial discipline, raising the environmental tax rate and expanding the tax base, this is the subject that we should discuss together once again and perhaps modernize Ukrainian legislation. I think there's a situation where we need to introduce new enabling tools for environmental modernisation and polluting enterprises, some experience, as I've already reported, the Ukrainian government is, but we need to move on and, of course, we need position and support, assistance from the Ukrainian Parliament. With regard to the mechanism for the distribution of funds between local budgets, I believe that there are also reasons for the analysis of statistics over the past three years to say that this mechanism needs improvement. And I would like to conclude by saying that it is very important to ensure proper control of the financial use and efficiency of the use of funds from the special fund, both local budgets and, ultimately, the state budget, and that the Ministry of Nature is working and will offer its mechanisms to the government and, of course, to the Ukrainian Parliament. Finally, once again, I would like to say that Ukraine is moving towards understanding the priority of protecting the environment, because all scientific research says that 80 percent of the life expectancy of every citizen depends on the lifestyle and conditions in which we live, and only 20 percent is the case of the medics, whose reform the Ukrainian Parliament is working with the Ukrainian government. So in a joint effort, we're going to win. Thank you very much for your support, and I hope that next week we will have the opportunity to consider a few more bills on environmental reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u3	Thank you, Ostap Mikhailovich. Let's move on to the questions. I'm asking all the national MPs who are willing to ask questions from the government, I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. And I want to remind you, the record goes from the national MPs, not the factions. I mean, if a faction doesn't fall, it won't be a reason to give them a word for a question. So, are you ready? Please record a question to the government, please. Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u5	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u6	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, the Opposition Block is addressing you personally with one question. First of all, we want to thank you for the fact that on April 16, at the Cabinet of Ministers, you decided to transfer the state institution of the Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology to the medical university. We preserve science, we preserve improved working conditions. In order for this to work, an appropriate order from the Ministry of Health is needed for the transfer to the university balance -- once and for the creation of an inventory commission. 60 days have passed, more than 70 days have passed, no such order. It's under their dress. I'm asking you a question. Do you think it is such a hidden form to demand bribes from those waiting for such a decision, or is it sabotaged by your decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u7	Please, Vladimir Borisovich. Ulyana Suprun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. We've just finished working on that order because it's not just to pass on this one lab, but it's all the labs that were under sanepide. It's more than 25, which is district, and then there's 800, which is below. In the district labs. So now we're done here, and we're gonna hand over the labs to, and we're gonna have to have a signature next week. But we support the transfer of this lab, which will continue science -- first; and secondly, that we also protect the same ones that are very important and to the level of biosecurity in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please pass the word to Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u10	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We've all learned that last night, a row of Kremlin cans were opened that took bribes to publish numerous fairy tales in the media. Mr. Wadim, please let us know about this successful operation. What is the status of the investigation? One. Who was involved, two. And most importantly, the following actions to defend our nation's information space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u11	Good afternoon! Thank you for asking. Yes, two robbers were detained yesterday by the prosecution of Kiev City and, together with the Chief Investigator of Kiev National Police, who demanded bribes from the Link People’s Deputy. At the transfer of 10,000 dollars, they were detained in the order of 208 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dollars, sorry, dollars. Detained in the 208s, now follow-up. The case is, thanks for having the MP address us for another 31. On 03rd, three months later, investigators and indiscretions were carried out. And the case in question, I think, will come to a logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u12	Princess Mikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I'd like to draw your attention. As soon as he spoke to Mr. Stephen Kubi, he had already promised to help. The last meeting of our committee was devoted to a violent situation that was the State Archives of Literature and Art. This archive is located in the territory of Sofia Kyivsky. In September, the lease ends, and it's in an emergency horrible place. And so far, the question is, where can we move this archive? You and I have been approached by representatives of Ukrainian culture, prominent family members of prominent Ukrainian writers who are concerned that this archive can simply be destroyed. I'm asking you very much, and we've already agreed with Mr. Stephen on this, to hold a meeting and decide where we can resupply this archive, but in an appropriate, effective room, because it's really a great national acquisition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u14	Please, Kostenko Pavlov Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u15	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u16	I have three questions to ask the government from the Self-Help faction. First question. Yesterday, the Ministry of Internal Affairs promised to publish information about Yuri Holuban, who, in the form of an officer of the Ukrainian police, appeared in the Supreme Council and was then identified among the traitors of Ukraine from the East Battalion. Second question. When will the government actually test those who receive social assistance so that tens of billions of dollars approved on behalf of taxpayers will really reach people? And the third question. Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to get an answer from you, and not just me, who is impeding your government without cheating, without further action to ban the import of Russian coal? Why do we continue to allow the aggressor to be financed?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u17	Please, Mr. Troyan. Yesterday we agreed that this question would be answered and answered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u18	Yes. Thank you for asking. I'm informing you that Colonel Douban Jury Stepanovich is working as commander of the Special Police Task Force of the National Police Department of the Donetsk Region. Now he's filed papers for transfer to the Kyiv district to the training center. With regard to the Pigeon and the conduct of the service inspection, then the service investigation. We sent him to the Ukrainian Security Service, which should have decided whether he was a criminal or not. I'll tell you directly from myself, I'm a volunteer who also fought, and a lot of deputies here are volunteers, why everyone is supporting him just because we saw him on the front with a weapon against the enemy. And if the S.H.E.L.E.L.D. proves such things, they can be carried out politically. Now, as a military man, I'll tell you directly: he serves with us and will serve until proven guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u19	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Yuszkov Tetjana Leonidivna passes it on to Lashkov Oleg. Excuse me, Prime Minister, yes. Volodymyr Borisovich, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u20	Good afternoon, distinguished fellow national MPs, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, no government company buys coal in the aggressor countries. This is the first position. The other one. All measures to diversify coal supply have been taken by the government. And the third. We're replacing coal with other types of fuel, especially the anthracite group that is now in the Ukrainian mines, which were stolen by Russian fighters with the help of some Ukrainian pseudo-patriots. That's why we're doing our security today. As for "foolishness," I am deeply convinced of this, especially the Ukrainian people's deputies, that we should read Ukrainian legislation and set an example for all Ukrainians in respect of compliance with the rules of law, not wavering their mandate and walking around in a way that is inviolable. Take off the touch, take off the mandate, become equal before the law, and the Prime Minister of the country, who has no immunity, no immunity, that is, we have absolutely all the touch. And then do your community service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u21	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I am addressing you with a traditional question. The only way to get our country out of poverty is to radically raise wages and other citizens' incomes. What you're proposing for 2018 is a minimum wage of 3,700 dollars per year -- it's worthless, it's a tax. Because at such a pace, we will never allow Ukrainians to feed their family. As of October 1, we insist that we set the minimum wage at 5,000 dollars per month and raise another 1.5 thousand dollars from the new year 2018. The same with pensions. Today, there are an additional 11 billion dollars in the Pension Fund budget. We're asking you, without delay in the fall, to recalculate pensions right now, to modernize them, and to give people normal pensions. It's the only way to overcome poverty, make our country strong, make people earn and have jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u23	Thank you very much for your question, Reverend Oleg Valeriyovich. First of all, my fellow countrymen, I want to thank you today for yesterday's decision, for all the factions, for all the non-fractional MPs who supported the foundation and for the whole of Ukraine's Amendment Act on the 17th Year State Budget Act. It's actually a very important decision that was desirable, and it was important to make from a state standpoint yesterday. Unfortunately, we only got 204 votes. Yesterday, a majority of the votes were voted on as a basis, and thus, for three weeks, the possibility of financing all the urgent issues was set aside. But I emphasize, there were benefits and subsidies, there was the wages of the medics, there was the financing of the National Medical Academy of Sciences, there was the construction of the road of Lviv, Ternopil, Hmelnicki, Vinitza, Uman, Odessa, Mikolai, there was a very important question, friends, 100 million treatment people abroad, who were waiting literally every day for this decision, there was the wages of Ukrainian miners, there were the means of individual protection of Ukrainian miners, there were many things that people were just waiting for. And I was counting on yesterday we'd consistently make that decision, although, unfortunately, it didn't happen. Well, there's going to be a decision to make. There's no other choice. Parliament will not be working in plenary for two weeks now, then it will have to be adopted for the third plenary week. Dear colleagues, national deputies. And where did this 25 billion come from that we sent to the redistribution? I want to tell you that it's not the cost of confiscation, it's the cost of increasing the national economy. And the beginning of the growth of the national economy is the result of systemic steps, both by the previous Yatzenuk government and by our government, whose task was to restore economic growth. We have made very difficult decisions and very difficult decisions, but this has enabled us to stabilize the situation. Our task now is rapid economic growth. So childization and economic growth gave us the opportunity to re-evaluate the budget in just five months, friends, by 25 billion dollars. And it's not the end, it's just the beginning. Then we need reforms, colleagues. Reforms that will lead to macroeconomic stability. And not macroeconomic stability and economic growth for one year, but for the long term. As far as minimum wage is concerned. Dear colleagues of the people's deputy and distinguished Oleg Valeriyovich, you know that as no one else is experiencing and making every effort to increase social standards. But we can actually do that, if we're being absolutely honest, we can do that based only on the growth of our national economy. Rapid growth will give more resources, and of course, where we should give these resources to a working man and a Ukrainian pensioner. These are the things we have to do with you. But at the same time, we have to ensure that the country is modernised. We need new ways, we need new boilers, we need energy efficiency, we need new hospitals, we need new schools, we need new gardens -- that's all that makes life worth living in a country. And in large numbers, our joint task with you is to build Ukraine together, where you want to live, where you can both create families, and work, and at least provide minimal needs. So our government, together with you, I thank everyone who supported this decision, we have made double the minimum wage in the country. If you remember, by December 1, 2016, the minimum wage in the country was 1,000, 450 dollars, and today it is 3,000, 300. That's what we've done. And we understand that we need to maintain a balance, a balance between what we can or need to do and what the national economy can handle, because business needs to be able to pay that kind of salary. So the process of further growth will be smoother so that inflation does not collapse, so that it does not stop economic growth and so on, it is all very linked. And now, as far as I'm concerned, friends, pensions and pension reform. Retirement is number one, 80 percent of Ukrainian pensioners live on a minimum pension. It's absolutely fair to raise their pensions and we, as a government, can do that. But let me stress, our task is not only to raise pensions but to pay pensions, to pay pensions not only this year and the next, but decades ahead. To that end, we need to ensure the financial stability of Ukraine's pension system. What does it take? The pension deficit needs to be eliminated. Friends, the deficit of the Pension Fund today is $5.5 billion, that's money that doesn't exist, that's 141 billion dollars that we are today from the general budget, taking these funds away from the economy, from the security, from health, from education, from all the lives of Ukrainian citizens, just to close the deficit of the Pension Fund. Our job is to eliminate the deficit while people get pensions in a stable way. And the government has proposed a solution, a reform that is perfect enough to meet today’s needs. What will this be possible? This will give you an opportunity on October 1st: (a) to raise pensions to 9 million pensioners with 12; (b) second, I promised you from this rostrum, we can move with you to the next step after this reform, we will raise pensions to Ukrainian military, military, this is our commitment, we will abolish pension taxes, we will leave a general retirement age of 60 years, so we pay our respect to the working man. Because retirement is not social assistance, it's what a person earns for his job, for his job, we don't have a job to take half the pension, give up the job. We have a job to do, and if a person has not worked for one reason or another, give him social assistance. And this social assistance has been prescribed as a decision in the Pension Insurance Act to raise pensions. And I'm the only one I'm asking. Friends, please, let's not look at the political situation, let's actually make state decisions that will change our country. And I would very much ask you to find strength, political leadership, in order to accept this pension reform, not to change. Not to replace the idea of increasing pensions with the very change in the system that will allow people not only to get higher pensions, but also to get those pensions, it is our responsibility with you. All they did in the pension system of the decade was destroy the pension system of Ukraine. And you see today that people are living, incredibly, retired, poor. I'm sure after the pension reform, however difficult it may be for us, Ukrainian pensioners will always say a warm word to us, thank you, for making a responsible decision, and their lives will change as of October. And most importantly, not for the first time, for the best. I ask you all to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u24	Thank you. The Matkovsky Bogdan conveys the word for the question to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u25	Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich! Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you about a situation that is governed by an extremely important Ministry of Health. You know that a person who is not in a legitimate way, and you know that very well, is in this position because there is no precedent for people without being ministers for ten months. The Ukrainian people continue to be molested under your name. At first there were 210 bracelets for family medicine, now there were 480 bracelets, and actually zero is given. Health reform was to be launched on July 1, with promises of greatness. Now, two days ago. The minister claims that it will be on January 1st or unknown when. Please tell me, how long will an illegal person take office in your government? You promise that this is a coalition issue, that it's a coalition issue that you're capable of making. Can't you even comply with the basic norm of the Constitution and the law and bring a legitimate person in for approval?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u26	Good afternoon! First, I would like to point out that we wanted to start a change in the primary health funding system as of July 1. But the working group of MPs who drafted the bill that was submitted to the Supreme Council and first read it, they postponed it to January 1, 2018. And the second thing about calculation. Every year, we're going to change our calculations about the possibilities that are going to be in the budget. As the Prime Minister has already said, our economy is growing, there is more funding for health care. We also have a plan that is already in line with the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Finance and Kabmin will increase the level of payment of our medical system each year specifically in primary care. So I think, as our national deputies, if we supported Bill 6327 in the second reading on changing the financing of the health care system, we will see that there will be changes in the primary chain this year. We've already started the electronic health system, there's been a press conference yesterday, there's been a demonstration of how medical facilities are already registered since July 15th, and we're going to register patients from January 1st, 2018. Thank you for your support in the first reading of Bill 6327. Because we see that national MPs understand that there is a need to change the health system, and it doesn't work. Thank you for your support, and I hope you will support Bill 6327 in your second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u27	Savchenko Nadija Victorourena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u28	Three questions to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources. Thank you for the picture report. Please tell me, are you aware of the environmental disaster in the city of Black Sea Odessa, where the coastline shifts because of the corrupt action of the mayor, the criminally corrupt, who allowed the coastal line to be used under roadblocks? It's coming off the ground. How are you going to fortify the coastline? How are you going to move people out of the environment? Question two. What does your ministry have in mind, does it have any plan of perspective, a reform to address the garbage issue not only in Lviv but also in Ukraine? Are you going to experience, for example, the mayor of the city of South Ukraine in the Mikolai district, where there is a separate collection of garbage, where waste is processed into fuel, according to the feeding of homeless animals and other such programs? And the third question. What is the situation now with Chernobyl’s sarcophagus covered, and in what sled do the rest of the nuclear facilities in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u29	Mrs. Nadia, thank you for asking. I'll probably start with a third one, because it's the only one that touches the powers of the Ministry of Nature. Anyway, let's talk about all three. With regard to Chernobyl and the new secure confination, a new ark of safe confination over the fourth - cloud sarcophagus took place in November 2016. This is the result of the enormous work done by Ukraine and by our international partners. In November 2017, that is to say, this year, we are scheduled to complete the work on the rules of play and put into operation a new safe confination, which is calculated at least for 100 years. Then we're going to use the mechanisms that are in the new secure confineration to start clearing up the old one. And our goal is to bring this site to a completely clean, environmentally friendly area. This, of course, will take quite some time and probably a lot of resources. But we're moving in line with the established plan and we're ensuring the maximum level of security at both the Chernobyl station and eventually the minimization and non-negative impact on other areas. As far as trash is concerned. Of course, it's the authority of local self-government, but the Ministry of Nature is monitoring the environmental impact, and after the disaster that took place in the lion's garbage dump for the first time in 25 years, the Ministry of Cooperation. The Ministry of Nature, I mean, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Regional Development and Housing and Housing, has prepared a new waste management strategy with international partners; there are changes to legislation that will change the concept of public waste policy. There are six chapters among the wastes. One of the six chapters is municipal garbage or solid household waste. Individually, you monitor the situation that is developing. I hope you're keeping an eye on the situation in Lviv and you know that there was a meeting this week that was headed by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Hennaday Zubko. This was followed yesterday by a meeting of an extraordinary technology commission in Kiev. Rapid measures have been developed to remove garbage, help the city of Lviv, and remove garbage from the city. I think the captains who worked on this committee could tell you more about the move. It's about the sea line. I would categorize it, obviously, as erosion, coastal erosion and obviously we're focusing more on it, and I'm going to have to tell you a little bit later about this particular work within our jurisdiction and the competence of other organs that I don't know about the outcome of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Illenko Andriy Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u31	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question to the government in general and to the Ministry of Justice, particularly you have such a deputy minister, Petuhov, who sends a letter to the central executive authorities about what will happen to the thematic groups to discuss the relevant issues of the Ministry of Justice, inviting representatives of the executive branch, the law enforcement authorities. And in particular, on June 29, this thematic group will be held to discuss measures to prevent the integration of nationalistic ideas into the political platform of civil society. Please explain what this is all about. It's a violation of the Constitution, a persecution of political views. If people don't figure out what there is, you can come up with a lecture to read, which is different from nationalism from some totalitarian ideology, and what the Ministry of Justice does in general: propaganda for "Russian peace" or persecution of people according to their ideological views. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u32	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. In the Ministry of Justice, there will never be any question of human or civil rights abuses. If there is a meeting of a thematic group with such an agenda, it is likely that one of the public organizations has offered to discuss the subject. This in no way means that such decisions will be made or supported by the Ministry of Justice. For our part, we are always open to any discussion, especially when it comes to the implementation of a national human rights strategy, and this is where 220 non-governmental organizations take part, which may have different views, but on this site they will be filtered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u33	Thank you. So I want to tell you that there are three minutes left, and so there are three more questions: Lithuania, Tarasyuk, Kodola. Three questions. And Gopko, good, and Gopko. I'll continue at that time. Litwin, Tarasyuk, Kodola and Hopko, and we're going to finish the "hour of questions to the government." Please, Litwin Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Maybe I have three small questions. First. We were listening here, and it was a good report on the environmental situation. But the environmental situation in the country is a matter of local problems. Poisoning the Rivers of Gomorrah and the Sun. The year is already in writing on this subject. Dozens of questions and references. Reaction is zero. Smell. People can't drink water, they can't even eat cattle. Last request, month, no answer. Better write-offs. Please take this problem under control. Another problem. These are terrible roads in the Gitomir region. Periodically, the costs are allocated and then taken off. For example, the Novograd-Volinsky-Korastin road. It's not the road, it's the direction. But this is the road of national importance. I understand what roads do in separate directions, but not where they need to be. And let me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u36	The third question. Changes to the budget, Vladimir Borisovich, did not take into account the needs of the Kyiv National University. There are 43 million dollars to be paid. There was a promise from the Ministry of Finance that when the budget changes would be made, these costs would be taken into account. And the second. It was also promised that 10 to 15 million would be allocated for the construction of a surgical corps in Novograd-Wolinski. It's a hospital district. And there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u37	Thank you, thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! As for the rivers that you announced, I'm going to give the minister of ecology a mandate to deal with this issue with you and we've seen what we can do there to solve this problem. Second position. Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, you know the condition of Ukrainian roads. You have worked in the Ukrainian government for many years and have seen that, unfortunately, when the budgets were adopted, Ukrainian roads were never a priority. And so, as a result, they were destroyed in tens of years. And there are no roads that don't need to be repaired in Ukraine. 95 percent of Ukraine’s roads are in serious condition. And it didn't happen yesterday, not two years ago, it's a systemic underfunding, a systematic abuse of these issues in a country that's been around for decades. What have we done now? We rebuilt the vast construction and reconstruction of roads in Ukraine. We tripled our funding, we tripled our volume, and we started solving this problem earlier this year. So there are no roads, so you said repair, but not where you need to. That's not true. Where repairs are done, repairs are needed in all directions. Maybe not where you need to be, that's the thing. But in five to seven years, we can sort out the Ukrainian roads. And that's what I promise you. But you have to wait for your turn, you have to develop a national economy, you have to make responsible decisions so that we can increase funding for Ukrainian roads. And as for university funding, I'm going to check that information. I want to let you know right away that in September we're going to be preparing for the state budget, and that's what I said yesterday from the rostrum, including the needs of a higher school. Where does the need for additional funding come from today? Not all spheres want to reform, not all spheres want to shape their spending parts in detail. And there are problems. So we will help them decide, but we will insist on what. It's not about higher school, it's about many other directions, but we're going to insist that people who are responsible for spending money in places spend it effectively, rationally and very effectively. Thank you. And the Ostap Mikhailovich rivers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u38	Thank you. Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich gives the floor to the question. And Ostap, yes. Please, Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with regard to the problem you are raising in the rivers of Svet and Gomorrah, is our common pain. In fact, the problem that exists there is under constant monitoring by the Ministry of Nature and State Environmental Inspection. You know that last session Friday we talked to you about this and arranged for a field meeting of the district technogenic commissions. It happened. We also invited people's deputies, first of all elected from Žitomirščina and Hmelničina, unfortunately only the People's Front took part in the meeting, or thanks to this faction of the People's Front, who took part in the meeting. But what I would like to say is that, unfortunately, the work done shows that the district authorities are very toothless in their defenses. In the fight. In the protection of these two rivers. The ongoing inspections of the State Environmental Inspectorate, which has been running for the past two years, as a minimum, say that the Poninkowska Factory enterprise has carried out overruns, as a minimum, at seven points in the river, resulting in the loss of both rivers and fish, and the poisoning of possible or threat of poisoning of residents. Regrettably, the factory in the last year has changed its name rather than constructing clean - up structures that are not there. In this connection, the State Environmental Inspectorate issued a waiver order for the company to operate. But we would very much like our partners to be the organs of local self-government, including myself, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to appreciate your interest and attention to this very problem, and I very much hope that together we will be able to continue or stop this business until it does damage the environment, or to force them to build clean buildings that unfortunately do not exist. So once again, thank you for your help and support, and I hope that the district administrations will be on our side as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u40	Tarasyuk gives the question to Sergey Evtushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u41	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we are with you and, like the entire Ukrainian people in the history books, we mention that in 1932-1933 there was a Holocaust. When there were echelons of grain and flour on the railway line, however, the authorities, Stalin, carried out genocide to the Ukrainian people. The same is happening with charity now. I am addressing you personally on behalf of all the benefactors, please note the committee for recognition of the burdens that block the full granting of charity. There's ATO assistance, and there's help for all the socially vulnerable categories. I mean, instead of initializing this process instead of what's normal, we're just blocking these directions right now. I would like to convey from all greetings to former Minister Paul Rosenkov because he worked for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, you mentioned some very tragic moments in the history of our country, our people. And I'll probably tell you that we have to remember our history with you, we have to do everything we can to honor the memory of the innocent in the years of famine. I regret that in 25 years of our Independence Memorial, the memory of the victims of the Holodomor, is still an unfinished building. I call on the entire Ukrainian Parliament to support the budget changes we proposed yesterday. There are already the first 50 million to complete the building of this memorial, and we have to do so, it is our duty to all those innocently killed at that terrible time. Yesterday was the beginning of World War II. How much Ukraine has suffered, how much Ukraine has lost. And we must honor the memory of those people with great respect, respect, and, as descendants, do all we can to ensure that no one will ever forget those tragic moments of our lives. And now for humanitarian aid. Guys, there are two parts to this question, and I want you to hear me very carefully and understand me right now. There's charity work, and I support it with both hands, and I'm willing to do it, and I'm willing to support it, and I'm going to make it as transparent as possible on this issue, and I'm asking the National Deputies to do it. That's the first one. And thank you to the volunteers, to the charities, who, in fact, are truly helping where it needs to be helped. But we have another problem, my friends. The form of humanitarian aid in Ukraine involves smuggling, which does not reach the basic goal of humanitarian aid. And so to say that when everything's good and everything's going well, that it was nice, I wouldn't be, it's very risky. I insist that I am ready to receive agreed proposals from the Ukrainian Parliament on the systematic improvement and transparency of the work of these commissions or the transparency of the mechanism that we have to determine in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Even more, I urge you to do this so that the procedures are public, open, simple, and we can always support this volunteer movement and humanitarian aid. But I definitely don't want to have whole smuggling clans under our cover, and I think a lot of people know about it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u43	Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u44	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. I have a question about the social protection of our military personnel, because the state guarantees participants and war invalids the right to free sanatorium treatment. At the same time, my public receptions in Ninja, Nosovka, in other parts of my constituency there are a lot of references from our heroes, because the state of June is effectively denied the right to sanatorium treatment at the expense of public funds. And the reason we've explained is that the Ministry of Social Policy has not yet approved a command to determine the number of basic services of sanatorium-sort treatment. So what steps are being taken to address this problem, and when will it be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. What about the reasons why our military personnel are not fully provided with sanitation? This is not because there is an order, or because there is no order, but because there is not enough funding. Sadly, no more than 50 percent of the program is funded year after year. What is involved in the command to list services? So it's about moving on to a new travel mechanism. Instead of conducting a variety of corruption tenders where the participants are fighting for the favor of the officials, we're moving on to a money-for-man system. So we figure out the amount within which you can buy a trip at the request of an ATO participant, but some of our participants in the sanatorium include not only classical services, but also additional services. And as a result, they make a person with government funds have to pay about the other half. So we cut them off from the ability to make money on our ATO veterans. The order is now in agreement with the MOH and will be approved as soon as possible. But once again, the main reason is not the order, but the program is not funded enough. I call on you to consider the budget for the next year, to take into account the ministry's budgetary request in more detail than this year's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u46	And the last question, Anna Hopko, please. And that's where we end up with an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u47	I think it's a moral duty to finish building a memorial to the 85th anniversary of the tragedy, and that's what we all have to do together. Now for two short questions. The first question before the Eastern Partnership summit, which will take place in November of the EU, Eastern Partnership, Ukraine, is whether the government is developing a kind of investment package in infrastructure and support mechanisms for small and medium-sized businesses, a kind of Marshall Plan, which has already been delivered by our partners from Lithuania, partners from Poland. I think it's an important idea after the visa waiver, the Association Agreement to present our vision of how we want economic growth not to be 2 and 3 percent, but 6-8 percent to overcome poverty, to take the state out of the trap of poverty, so that there is no population. And we've already talked about this plan in Washington, we've been talking about it this week in Berlin. It is important for the government to identify the area in which it is needed. And second, a quick question. By 2020, we had committed 20 billion cubic feet [20 billion cu m] of gas, but the permit system was 3.5 years old, and Canada had a week. When we shorten procedures, is this a question for the Minister of Energy, if we're saying that we want to become energy independent? Thank you for answering two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u48	Thank you for your questions. I want to thank the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the great work she and the committee team are doing. With regard to supporting Ukraine and representing our country in external relations. I want to emphasize that we have many plans. But the key is not to give birth to a new plan, but to do what is already there. And as a government, we have approved our action plan by 2020, which is based on many areas, has five key priorities, including economic growth, the development of human capital, justice, anti-corruption activities, national security and defence. So the basic priorities that we put, they're now defined by the government, and we're implementing them. Of course, support through other tools, important implementation of this plan, so we have something to talk about and what to present, which is the main thing. We're preparing for a big conference right now, and I hope you'll be there too. It's going to be a conference in London that we're going to be holding together with the British government. The conference is dedicated to Ukraine, reforms, state of affairs and support for the international Ukraine. This is also a similar step for the consolidation of the civilized world in support of Ukraine. So we're going to go this way, and let's put our efforts together both at the parliamentary level and at other international levels. And everything about energy. In fact, we need to simplify the procedures, and here we need to adjust national legislation, friends of honor. Here, free procedures are not only related to our decisions, the central authorities, but also to local authorities. And sometimes there's a political factor that doesn't always suit our national interests about our energy efficiency. Thank you for asking. We will take joint initiatives to simplify the procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u49	Thank you. So the time spent on "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Thank you to the government, Prime Minister, for participating in the discussion, and I declare the "hour of questions to the government" closed. We thank the government for participating. Thank you. So, colleagues now, according to the Rules, we have read-out of parliamentary inquiries. But before I go to the MP's questions, I want to report that the Presidency has received a request from two factions to announce the break. But they're ready to replace the break from the rostrum. This is the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u50	And the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u51	And the Radical Party. And the word is given to Ruslan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u52	Good afternoon! Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. I want to address our Ukrainian citizens first. The trouble that arose in Lviv raised a problem that is present throughout the country in all the cities. When fire and garbage became impossible to export to the lion’s range, Lviv sought help from the same cities in Ukraine. The hundreds of answers received at the address of Lviv indicate that all ranges of cities are overloaded and closed. In fact, the country is on the trash can. We were sometimes told about some of the model ranges where the question seemed to be solved. For example, I'm demonstrating the response of the Winnitsk City Council, which says they can't help the city of Lviv because the polygon is overcrowded, and it was closed back in 1998. But instead of solving the national problem, the government is silent and does nothing. The six bills that are called upon to solve the problem lie in the Supreme Council and are not accepted. In no country in the world has any municipality been able to solve this issue on its own; it is an exclusive task shared by the government and the parliament. Yesterday, there was a lot of government money going on in Parliament, rather than at the expense of these funds starting to solve the problem that is fully present in all cities. In this case, therefore, Parliament is obliged, if the government is unable to solve this problem, to take responsibility, to adopt these six bills and to oblige the government, which is accountable and accountable to Parliament, to start doing what it is obliged to do, to finance, together with cities, the solution to the problem of solid waste disposal. As for the problem of the Lion, it's very easy to solve, give Lviv the area and then the factory will be built, and all the problems will end. But in closing, I want to say one more thing. The Self-Help faction asked today about coal imports from the Russian Federation. We got the answer that there is no import. But I'm showing you the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, the official document. Page 7, paragraph 1, I read literally: In particular, imports of goods from the Russian Federation increased by 50.2 percent compared to January, March 2016, most of the Russian Federation imported coal, oil, and so on. We require the government to tell people the truth, not to tell lies. Lying always comes up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u53	So, colleagues, we move on to the most responsible part of today, this reading of parliamentary inquiries. I want to report that we've got half an hour. Please concentrate and listen carefully to all parliamentary requests. It's me today. Yeah, colleagues, let's work it out. Now is the MP's request, then I have letters from those who are not satisfied with the MP's request. They're given three minutes. Then there's the break. After the "hour" recording was interrupted, and the "hour of speeches from the rostrum." [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no one to the President today. So there won't be a vote at the beginning. But there are seven requests from national MPs who want to speak, who feel that their request did not have a reasonable answer. And so I'd like everyone to take their jobs and prepare to hear the questions, please. It's like when you were young. Victor Razwadowski was asked by the head of the Zitomir district government to expedite the issuance of land documents to ATO participant Arthur Neciporuk, a resident of the village of Lipne in the province of Žitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the allocation of capital funds, covered the blacksmiths in towns of Lakerne. Stanisława Berezkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of objective and impartial investigations into criminal conduct in the event of the raiding of the TOV "NIVA-2010" village of Berezhinka. Tetanya Crnoval to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of placing special duties on natural gas market entities to ensure the common interest in the natural gas market process owned by oligarchs, which are in fact unnecessary intermediaries in the natural gas supply system of consumers. Tetanya Crnoval to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the provision of a copy of the draft contract on the transfer to the payment of the assets of gas distribution systems owned by the State or their constituents on the balance sheet of the gas supply and gas companies and so far illegally used by them. Peter Sabashuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the problem of harm to the interests of the territorial community of Zaporozhye as a result of the illegal transfer to private property of land that is in the constant use of the utility "Communical Construction Administration" and on the verification of the legality of the actions of the head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration. Jacob Besbach to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support a minor child that significantly affects the provision of her needs. Alexia Ryabkin to the patronage of the city’s head on bringing into line with the applicable legislation the Statute of the territorial community of Pokrovska for the self - taxation of the population and the establishment of baseless congregations. Michael Bondar to the head of the Bus District State Administration of the Lviv Region, the head of the Bus District Council of the Lviv Region for the purchase and sale of an unknown list of food items for the sum of 50,000 dollars by the Bus Central District Hospital. Mikhail Bondar to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the construction of real estate objects in the coastal protection strip of Lake “Young People’s” in the town of Kamyanka-Buzka Lvivsk. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the entry into force of the local crossing point across the state border of Ukraine for the road connection "Vysočanski-Troyické". Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to address the situation on the PAT "Sumska Machine Construction and Production Union". Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problems of oil and gas companies and other organizations that are part of the Pat "Ukrnafta" (which are open, should not be moved) to the rights of structural units and located in the territory of the Sumu district. Jurya Boyka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to private property of rooms, residents of the M. Biryuzov street, 90/14 in Poltava. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of treatment, provision of medicines and medicines at the expense of the budget of the disabled group II from childhood. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a bone marrow replacement operation in a foreign clinic with acute leukosis. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for Restoration of Work and Participation of DP "NDI" Buran", which develops aviation for civil and military aircraft in the interests of defence of Ukraine. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Social Insurance Fund for Temporary Loss of Work, Director of the Department of Health of Kyiv ODA for the provision of employment sheets to residents of District No. 91. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine to stabilize the operation of the Odes Import Company. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration on the restructuring of the educational institutions of the village of Orov in the district of Lviv. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on business performance. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the development of information and communication technologies. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the maximum permissible load on the axis of transport. Igor Guza to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the deterioration of the criminogenic situation in Novovolinsk. Igor Guza to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the issue of road repair control of the state value N-22 Ustylug-Luck-Revene. Tetjana Bachevi and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the responsibility of officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, whose inaction led to the absence of raw materials in the Botulism Institutes, which resulted in nine fatalities. Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that occurred in 2017 with the calculation of the State Budget for accrued benefits and subsidies for housing and utility services in the Zakopil district of Kharkiv. Alexander Nechayeva to the Suman City Head on the violation of the constitutional right to learn from the native language of Suma citizens belonging to national minorities. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminal offence of officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, whose inaction led to deaths in connection with the absence of a botulism serum in health facilities. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the sabotage of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transfer to the operational administration of the State institution "Liviv Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Hygiene of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine" to the Lviv National Medical University of Danil Galitzki for the purpose of improving educational, scientific and medical prevention work. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the systematic inappropriate examination of parliamentary appeals and requests, the inaction in the issue of free transfer from the state to municipal property of the preschool facility in the Darnitsky district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Director General of the Ucrobornprom State Concert, Director of the State Radiometer Company, Kyiv City Head for the improper examination of parliamentary appeals and requests for the use of legal measures for free transfer from the state to municipal property of the preschool facility in the Darnitsky district of Kyiv. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on compensation for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the cost of treatment in connection with the suspension of Decree No. 319. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of sports and health objects to the regional branch of the South-West Railway to the municipal property of the city of Korosteny Žitomir district. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of response measures and on the responsibility of officials of the Žitomirski GUP in the Žitomirsk region. Jury Miroshnicka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the conduct of an official investigation into the Deputy Chief of the Uzhgorod City Department of the State Executive Service, Maxim Wenzega. Sergey Labazuk to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and HKG, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, Head of the Hmeljna District State Administration, Head of the Hmeljna Municipal Council on the solution of the garbage management problem. Valery Davidenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to compensate the damage to the Nossovian united territorial community of TV Universal-Techservis, which was caused by the use of the land without the proper formulation of the lease and the employment contract without the proper formation of the labour relationship. Valeria Davidenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to approach the cost-effective appointments of medical subsidies and to increase the annual amounts of educational and medical subsidies for the Mansion region of Chernigiv. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the violation of the requirements of the current legislation and for the commission of unlawful actions by the Public Shareholders Association Poltawaza when shutting down multiple apartment buildings from the gas supply because of the disagreement of their residents to establish public building counters with them carrying out mass protests in the Poltava region. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Elimination of Violations of Property Rights of Internally Moved Persons when they are being removed from the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Ivan Miroshnichenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the budget of the Institute of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine to pay the debt for medical and diagnostic equipment. Savchenko's hopes for the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the removal of the arrest from the Lochwitsky Street area for the extension of the land lease of the National Bank of Homeland Security. Leonidas Hamtsa, head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for gross violation by the owner and tenants of non-residential premises at the address: the city of Kiev, Lutheranska Street, 30 standards of law enforcement of Ukraine and the inaction of officials of local self-government and the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine in the protection of the housing rights of residents and co-owners of the house. Alexander Brigintz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the National Police of Ukraine for signs of misconduct by an employee of the National Police of Ukraine in relation to his own child. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the head of the Vinnitské ODA, Head of the North Office of the Derjaudit Service in the Vinnitské region, head of the Yampil district government administration for a number of violations of the current legislation committed by the head of the Cultural and Tourism Department of the Yampil district administration, Viktor Deliberative. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the settlement of the situation of the residents of the city of Harkov of debt for the use of heating services as a result of the recalculation of subsidies. Anatolia Denisenka is the director of the Fund for the Guarantee of the Investments of Natural Persons on the Status of Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Compensation to Individuals through the System of Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals Injured by Abuse of Banking and Other Financial Services, in part of the return of funds to the investors of the PAT "Bank Mikhailivski". Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prosecutor of the Ravensk Region, the Chief of the National Police Department of the Ravensk Region, the Dubensk City Head, the Head of the Dubensk Interstate Prosecutor's Office, the Head of the Dublin Police Department of the National Police Department of the Plains Region for the violation of land law by officials of the Dublin City Council and the return of the land area on the street of Gruszewski in the city of Dubno Ravnisk to the legitimate rule of the territorial community of the city. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to make money on child hygiene. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the Internet resource Electronic Manual. Vadim Krivohatka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the criminal activity of members of the Vilnius Police Department of the Pollock Police Department of the National Police Department of Zaporozhye. Eugene Balitsky to the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the grave violation of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. Eugene Balitsky to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine from an emergency situation, temporarily fulfilling the responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the environmental situation in the city of Melitopolis of Zaporez. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the enforcement of legislation on the protection of economic competition by the milk processing enterprises of the Volin region in the establishment of purchase prices for milk raw materials from the population. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on unlocking the public enterprise Volintorf, preventing the unemployment of 400 citizens and avoiding the collapse of preparations for the heating season of the budgetary institutions of Volinska, Ravenska and Lviv areas. Aunt Ostrikov to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Service of Ukraine to answer questions raised in the field of competence. Aunt Ostrikov to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for providing information. We're demanding a donation. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, heads of the Board of Directors on preventing the cessation of the activities of the Ternopil State Science and Technology Company "The Flash". Groups of National Deputies (Glorka, Osuhovsky and others, only 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of Ternopil ODA for the reconstruction of clean buildings in the town of Kremenac Ternopil. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on pollution of the environment in Ukraine. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to protect the rights of former workers of destroyed mining enterprises to provide coal for their needs. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the question of the restoration of gas supply in the village of the town type Toshkovka and the village of the town type Lower Pásnjan district of Luhansk. Andrija Pavelka is head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the consideration of the collective appeal of residents of House No. 13 on the street of Omelanovic Pavlenko in Kiev and the use of appropriate measures. Igor Lapin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the Court of Appeal to abolish the ban on the provision of goods in Crimea. Igor Lapina to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for environmental pollution and the spread of odour in Lutsk. Alexander Kirsza to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the renewal of the 61027 PAT post office "The Crucifixion" in the micro-region of the UIC in Kharkiv. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social protection of trainees and hearers of military institutions, from the composition of children killed in the ATO. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take into account the time spent by the military service for mobilization into the insurance period and the financial security for the period of service until the salary in the calculation of the pension. Oksana Korczynski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of a check to be carried out in accordance with the position occupied and possibly to exceed the duties of Lieutenant Colonel Fedoruk, Colonel Chebanenko, and the review of the Ukrainian National Guard’s medical system. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, Head of the Tetian District State Administration of the Kyiv Region for the improper execution of works from the capital renovation of the roof of the Tetian Public Education School No. 3. Vitalia Gudzenka to the procurator of the Kyiv region, the head of the Bilocerkow District Regional Administration of the Kyiv region, for the improper execution of works from the capital repair of the Ivanówska NVK "General School of Education I-III Grade-Children's Garden" in the village of Ivanovka Bilocerkowska District of Kyiv Region. Dmitra Sphenov to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the Use of Urgent Measures to Stop Violations of the Rights of Gas Consumers and Restoration of Violations. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on documents confirming the identity of a person in the category of children of war. Mr. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need for the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine to develop a list of basic services provided to citizens by the administrations of the work and social protection of the population of the regional government administrations. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine, and the extraordinary development and implementation in Ukraine of the National Waste Management Programme, as well as the use of response measures aimed at protecting citizens' constitutional rights to safety and health. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk and Vasil Janicky to the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders for the restoration of the Lutsk-Kiev train. Romana Maczola, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Hmélník District Public Administration for the care of patients in the Hmělní region with medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. Romana Macoli to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the provision of means of transport for disabled persons. Andrija Illenka to the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Public Shareholders Association for the organization of a comfortable passenger connection between the Hmelnicki and Ternopili regions with Kiev. Andrea Illienka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, who is responsible for the headship of the Righteous District in Kiev of the State Administration for Predicting in Kiev’s Social and Economic Development Programme for the maintenance of asphalt cover on the street of Mateyuk, 5 in the right-wing district of Kiev. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine's Minister of Health for inclusion in the Register of Governmental "Affordable Drugs" Program for Type II Sugar Diabetes. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Chernobyl ODA, head of the Kitzman District State Administration of the Montenegrin Region for the provision of assistance in the treatment of the oncological resident of the village of Clervic region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District Public Administration to resolve the issue of the financial security of the public health institution "Dubrovicka Central District Hospital". Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of additional funds from the State budget of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region to provide the affected population of the region with free medical supplies as a result of the accident at CHAES. Sergey Melnika to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the verification of the compliance of Pat "ArselorMittal Curve Rig" with antimonopoly legislation to provide a steel catana for the needs of Ukraine's internal market. Sergija Melnika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unfinished construction of a large apartment building on the street of Panas Mirno, 29/1 in Hmelnitski. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prosecutor of the Ravenna District for the inactivity of the Ravenna Local Prosecutor’s Office. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the organization of the proper implementation by the Prosecutor's Office of the requirements of the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine. Alexander Livik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the activities of Pat "The Crucifixion". Victor Ostapchuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the direction of the use of the tax and revenue collection of individuals. Constantine Pavlova and Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the right to payment of invalids and members of the WFW. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders, director of the regional branch of South West Railway on the route of Winnica Odessa. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district government to help build a network of residents of the village of Pilipkowci in the area of Hmeljni district of the Hmeljna region to access the Internet. Vladimir Gusak to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railways, on providing information on preferences in the shipping of Russian freight forwards before the shipments of Ukrainian freighters through the border crossing of Uzhgrad. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the abuse and purposeless use of the land of the State Enterprise "Tahtaulova Research Farm", continued to rent it to private entities and to refuse the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences to spoil the land among the employees of the enterprise. Roman Semenha to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, head of the Kharkiv ODA for the organization of the transfer of the village of Pokotilovka to the region from centralized to individual heating. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on bringing the existing social standards for the consumption of housing and utility services to their actual consumption of the population of Ukraine and on the establishment of the function of the sole National Register of Citizens of Ukraine, recipients of social benefits. Sergey Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on corruption schemes and criminal activities led by UDP "Ukkrimtransamak". Andrija Shinkovič and Alexandre Gerega until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide medical equipment to the Isiaslav Central District Hospital. Andrija Šinkovič to head of the Road Service in the Hmelnicki district for the control of the capital work of the road area in the village of Yampil in the area of Hmeljni district. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets in order to ensure proper consideration of the parliamentary request No. 1572/13-04-2017-I from 13 April 2017 for payment to Vasil Feduh of insurance. Jury Tymoshenko to the Chief of Labour and Social Protection of the Colombian City Council for Information and Measures to Renovate Financial Conditions for the Functioning of OSB "PRIVOCZAL 12" in the city of Colomia. Groups of National Deputies (Moscalenka, Ricco and others; only 6) to the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the beating of the head of the TVC and other criminal offences against activists fighting illegal constructions in Priorpina. Dimitar Timchuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Housing of the Semipolk garrison military. Ruslana Demczak until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide emergency care for oncological residents of the Vinnitsky region with Oncaspar. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the award of the resident of the Nemiriv district of the Winnitsk Region of Grigoria Find Order "For Courage" for saving 25 ATO soldiers during the battle in the village of Kowské Donetské region on July 25, 2014. Sergija Rybalka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, head of Dnipropetrovska ODA for the establishment of individual gas counters for residents of multi-family buildings in the Dnipropetrov region. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kiev City Head, acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Executive Body of the Kiev City Council for the illegal delay in transferring the premises of Dnipro State's specialized literature from municipal to state property. My colleagues, do I have any idea if we're still reading or moving on to questions? Because I've already read 32 minutes honestly. I simply faithfully and responsibly carried out my obligation under the Regulations. He's got it. There's no bigotry in the workplace. And, colleagues, what else do we have to consider for recess? We have a discussion of the answers to the requests of the national MPs, who have remained dissatisfied with the answers that have come. Among them, I'll count, that's two questions from Igor Shurma, I see he's present in the hall. And it gives you the right to speak. One of Alona's Scrum, Elena Ivanovna, is gone. He's one of Sergei's sheets. He is, yes. I'm going to count them all. I'm going to list them all. Paulette Yuri Alexiyovich, Matthews Sergy, Chaplin Sergia, Semimenachi Romana So look, I'm going to keep going for 15 minutes. And now I'm going to give three minutes to everyone who's in the room, and I'm going to give them a word. Yeah? In that order. What difference does it make? Let's do this sequence that I have in my apparatus. That'll be fair. Please. No, three minutes, three minutes. Together it will be Shurma, Lechchenko, Kaplin, Semimenach. And Ostrik's gone. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll take a look. It's ostrich. There's no question. That's how we have cognitive dissonance. So, Igor Shurma, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u54	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to show you once again how inefficient and unproductive the Ministry of Health is. On November 30, 2016, the Minister of Health, on a temporary basis, announced that by the end of January 17, a medical order would be scheduled for the current year. And already in February, the ILO will be ready to sign contracts with international organizations to implement the order. In March 17th, a member of the Anti-Corruption Centre stated that all nomenclatures should be formed within a month, and then contracts with international organizations would be signed in April. However, I have to tell you that on the June 20th calendar today, there is no contract for the supply of medicines at the expense of the Ministry for today's date. Is that a coincidence? No, it's not random. Let's look at 2016. In 2016, the cost of drugs was listed only in November 2016. I mean, for a year at our state utilities, the Ministry didn't put drugs, no drugs. And then from this rostrum, they come back, excuse me, to say that we have pitiful hospitals, we have nothing to treat and we have to change the system. In my opinion, we need to change our leadership. What can we talk about if today, in mid - 2017, only 15 percent of the drugs that were to be used in 2016 came into our facilities. I wonder how a person who has lived all his life in the civilized United States will answer and what happens in America when people die because there is no cure. Who Are Criminally Responsible? There will be no answer to that question. And I am convinced that in Ukraine we will live until lawyers raise questions about all the deaths that were in 2016-2017 due to the lack of drugs. Are there any such actions by the minister? temporarily acting minister? No, she really doesn't understand medicine. Upon arriving in Lviv, referring to nine botulism deaths, she claims worldwide that the disease is not an infectious disease. Perhaps four years of medical schooling in the United States does not provide her with that education, but it does not give her the right to serve as a minister of health. Mr. Groissman, appoint a Minister of Health!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u55	Thank you. Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u56	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! I was asked about the wrong actions of the Ukrainian Security Service to block the work of Ukrainian aitists and programmers, which initiated the inclusion in the 1C code list of software manufacturers, the same one used by thousands of accountants across Ukraine, and other programmers who produce software for the recognition of texts and so on. This is absurd when the sector that is to be the engine of Ukrainian reform and promote Ukraine in the world becomes the subject of constant and careful attention by the BSC to the Marizmatic accusations, there, financing terrorism, merging FSB information and so on. In particular, the company "1C", which is a well-known Ukrainian product and is produced in Ukraine by Ukrainian programmers, even had a state certificate stating that they were allowed to be used in the Ukrainian authorities and that no one had the right to block them, but it did not prevent them from being included in the sanctions list under the CBS. My colleagues and I were at a parliamentary reception with ABBYY Ukraine, an international campaign where Ukrainian programmers sit, looking for where these terrorist plots are going. In fact, it's an ordinary Ukrainian company that produces Ukrainian gross products, which keeps such services going. Sadly, all of these are unique experiences. And the same thing happened to Mirabays, who's producing software for processing time, and the owner of this company was forced, in general, to leave Ukraine, worried about his life, and investigating Ukrainian intelligence. All of this indicates that Ukrainian security forces had a bit of a mix-up at such a dangerous time. Indeed, they pay attention to the fight against terrorism, but at the same time, there are whole departments that are chasing businessmen, who are chasing atheists, who are stalking importers, such as scrap gas, which is why Medvedchuk already has more than 30 percent in the Ukrainian scrap metal market. So Ukrainian drivers who put scraped gas in their tanks, they actually fund Medvedchuk, the famous godfather Putin, and finance him as the world's most famous yacht. So is Ahmedov, who is another Ukrainian oligarch who sits here in the Ukrainian Parliament for millions of dollars. He has managed to double the rate for thermal energy in today’s government. This is happening now, not at Yanukovich's, but now. A year ago, there were 95 copies, and more than 2 bracelets are being paid by Ukrainian consumers of Ahmetov. Or Firtash, another oligarch who shares the same representation in the Ukrainian Parliament. On account of his influence on the Ministry of Economics, he was able to introduce a special anti-dumping duty on imports of Ukrainian goods, I'm sorry, on imports into Ukraine of fertilizers, and in this way he is monopolizing the market, and he has an income that can be calculated with Putin Rotenberg's partner. It's all happening now, not in Yanukovich's time. And that, of course, is unacceptable. And Ukrainian intelligence has to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u57	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u58	And Ukrainian security forces are supposed to fight real corruption, not Ukrainian programmers and aitists, who are in line in the Silicon Valley in California to work there. They're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u59	Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u60	In Ukraine, about half a million of our fellow countrymen are former veterans of the Ministry, pensioners of today's Ministry of Interior, their families, their families, who are kept behind a meager salary. Over the course of the year, it is difficult for us to fight together to balance them with the new police officers at the level of their pension. I've sent about 26 references to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the President, to the Minister of Social Policy, to other professional ministers. The result is zero. We were forced to carry out loud protests and pursue justice in the street. I would like to thank the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine of Cuba for sitting with us for the table of talks, for working together on a road map to increase pensions for military personnel, for Afghan veterans, especially for the veterans of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. However, I would like to point out, my dear fellow veterans of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the process of protecting your interests has been delayed, and we have decided to organize the last campaign of protest, but that action, if the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not comply with our demands, will turn into an action that will forever remain under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as it has been with ex-Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk. We will seek to protect the interests of these common people. They can't live for a million and a half dollars. I think they deserve it, most of them deserve a decent pension, worthy of attention. Yes, among this cohort of our fellow countrymen, there are many who have made millions of dollars, those who have been corrupt, those who have humiliated the state of Ukraine, but at the same time there are most honest, committed to their cause, militiamen. So I officially announce that hundreds of thousands of veterans of the Ministry are ready to take part in a protest, a timeless protest, under the Cabinet of Ministers. And I swear that in the event of failure by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of our obligations to our citizens, we will remain there until the Prime Minister's resignation, the resignation of the government and the election of the Supreme Council. It's a large army of people, we'll be able to press these post-Majdan political elites to meet the common people and work together to get decent pensions for our veterans. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u61	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u62	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! By my statement from this high rostrum, I want to draw your attention once again to the tragedy that took place in the Kharkiv region of Balaklia on March 23 of this year, namely the massive explosions of ammunition at military warehouses that caused the tragedy in the peaceful city of Balaklia, which left thousands suffering. 91 families were homeless, 117 damaged many floors, 500 private - sector homes, two schools, two children’s homes, many facilities. Right after the tragedy, I sent several MPs to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Defence, to the Kharkiv District State Administration, demanding that the guilty be immediately brought to justice and that the people be given what they needed, and that they be compensated for the damage caused by the tragedy. Regrettably, much more loyally is done, since both government and district budgets have been allocated, the restored part of the roofs, including many windows in people’s homes. However, many people’s problems continue to be ignored, I emphasize that no family has yet been compensated so that people can move into a new home. There are huge problems with direct financial compensation, for there are many damage and damage in the middle of homes, inside apartments. The loss of small and medium - size business is also ignored. According to the HODA’s response, the damage to the landowners is not less than 10 million dollars — medium - class jobs in Balakleya. In this regard, I call on my colleagues to pay attention to the problem. We believe that a thorough report is to be made, publicly presented on every resource, so that the people of Balakley can really see where the funds were headed and how the funds were used. People are scared, and until the Ministry of Defense or the Military Prosecutor's Office finally brings the guilty to justice and will be punished who is really guilty of the criminal negligence that resulted in the tragedy. We also need to consider our initiative, a self-help colleague who has drafted Bill 6384-1, which is also called: (a) to provide housing for people or to compensate and provide direct financial compensation for people being able to do repairs inside the apartment. Above all, we want justice to return to the peaceful city of Balaklay. Justice without punishment is impossible. The Military Prosecutor’s Office is obliged to name the names of those people whose negligence has led to tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u63	Thank you. And, last performance, Igor Shurma, three minutes. And then there's going to be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u64	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Is it possible to become a monopoly player in the pharmaceutical market in Ukraine? It is easy, thanks to lobbyists sitting in the Ministry of Health today. This scheme is somewhat complicated when several different manufacturers are registered, and the market wants to win only for its company. But according to the Ministry of Health’s recent practice, it is not difficult to implement this device. This is the kind of movement that the MOHO team played, signing a peace treaty with the American pharmaceutical company "Gilead" in February of this year that threatened Ukraine with a lawsuit for violating its five - year exclusiveness. The company's demand was explained by the fact that it was the first person to register a cure for hepatitis "C" in Ukraine. As a result of the peace agreement, the American company bypassing the Ukrainian Medical Devices Act and the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court was granted exclusive rights in the Ukrainian market by 2020. Such actions by the Ministry of Health are an open lobbying of the interests of a separate pharmaceutical company, regardless of which country they are from. From that point of view, I sent a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which foreshadowed this review by the Antimonopoly Committee and the MoH of Ukraine. What did we get? The antitrust committee’s information indicates that one of the competitors’ companies registered for their medications as early as November 2014. The drug itself was registered only a year later, and a year later it was decided to register. At the same time another company, Gillead, filed their papers in three months. and it took only three months for the ILO State Expert Centre to carry out all necessary expertise and research. The deliberate delay in conducting the study led to the drug being reestablished. The application for registration was filed a year later and was registered faster. Inequal conditions for participants. Such actions by the MOH and its state-owned enterprise, the National Expert Centre of the MoZ Ukraine, testify to lobbying the interests of individual pharmaceutical companies. It may be assumed that similar lobbying schemes are used by other manufacturers using the MoE’s roofing. Who will be responsible for such an acceptable activity for the Ukrainian health care system? How much does Ukraine lose to such lobbyist combinations? In America, by the way, companies that have fallen upon corruption lobbyism pay huge charters to the Ministry of Justice. Who compensates for the damage caused to the Ukrainian budget, and how long will this last? It'll take a while. As long as the Ministry of Health is active in the Ministry of Trade. It is not a medical care organization. Today it only deals with tenders, purchases that have failed because there are no drugs, no raw materials, and people are dying. Question to the Ukrainian Security Service and the Prosecutor's Office: who will be responsible for all these anti-corruption actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u65	So, colleagues, we're done here. We have only one section of the agenda: these are speeches from the national deputies. And so I want to tell those who want to take part in the performances that we're going to do the recording after the break, it's going to be 12:45. And we're going to do the recording, and according to that record, we're actually going to do the performances. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. Please come to the hall after the break to continue our responsibility. responsible work. Do we vote without a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] The different positions of factions are, I'm afraid, we don't collect voices. If there was unity in the room, of course we'd go 250. So at 12:45, we're going to continue our work, not our easy work, but the work we need for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u66	I'm with you. Time for a break is over. Let's sign up. So far, Roman's on his way to the show. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u67	From faction leaders? The most responsible factions are present. Now we'll wait for Max to come along, then I'll announce it, with your permission. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the recording right now. It's the right moment. We're getting ready. I'm asking you to record a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Let's go! I pushed a few times. Silantiev Denis Olegovich, please. Please do not criticize the Head of the Supreme Council. I have this request.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u68	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Last week, in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I, as a member of the Radical Party faction, initiated a round table on the protection of children and the realities of their childhood. Today, I want to focus your attention on the most important problems our children face face-to-face, starting with their birth. Already in the maternity home, the parents of the child feel all the so - called gains of Ukrainian medieval medicine. Next comes the lack of places in kindergartens, many years of queues, corruption, often inadequate sanitation, and not always adequate nutrition. And what's very important is far from the best way out of the professional orientation of education. Children are looking for opportunities to realize their talents, but where they can do so when the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine gives up its mandate to build sports buildings, when the Ministry of Education and Science of the Court of Auditors in 2014-16 stole more than 6 million bracelets assigned to sports and health measures. Going to the gym or some other section today is a real problem for a child. And I'm only saying that about those kids who have parents. What about those kids who don't have parents? To understand the magnitude of the tragedy, children in children's homes today are in shelters and boarding houses, children of orphans, their numbers in Ukraine today exceed the number that was after the Great Homeland War. Most families have unemployment, alcoholism and drug addiction, and this is the main reason why parents refuse children. Who do you think will solve these problems, who will let the children into parliament and allow them to tell about their problems, who will hear them, who will be interested in their problems? But in the Council, we're increasingly witnessing when we're going through a sink or gas or oil or electricity or whatever, but we're talking about social issues, the development of a future generation and the status of children, this room is hearing less and less. So-called. In this area, you can't make money, and there's no return here, but there are dividends that the state will get when it develops the humanitarian sphere, much larger, and these dividends will be expressed in the successful future of our country. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, aware of its responsibility to the Ukrainian people, calls upon the government to finally establish a system, develop and implement a programme for the recovery of children for 2018 and other years, and protect our future generations. The Radical Party won't allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u69	Let's make it one-on-one for everyone. Is it gonna be okay for 10 seconds? Because they don't want to take each other at the same time. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u70	Thank you. The Radical Party will not allow the genocidal policy that is now being implemented by the government in relation to our Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u71	Thank you. Sobolev gives the word Vojcitsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u72	Dear Ukrainians! First of all, I want to come to you. Because today’s authority is deaf, blind, and completely cynical. To her, the key value, life, and health are nothing. It's the fourth for Oksana Siroid, for Mr. Shepherd and the fifth day of my colleagues' hunger under the walls of the President's Administration. If you feel that the power of life and the health of my colleagues is valuable, you are mistaken. If you think anyone from the President's Administration came to them, from the government, they didn't even ask why they were there, but how they felt they needed help, it didn't happen. I'll tell you more. These days, my colleagues at a committee meeting, which is responsible for helping our war fighters, are cynically sabotaging the question that those boys who leave the war with cripples, not just the cripples, they just don't have the opportunity to live a year, two, three, they cheat. They are deceived because they no longer have hope. They send their parents out of their last copies to keep them alive for a day or two. So our colleague asked and asked for an appropriate bill to honor these people, our soldiers, as well as those who died in the war. At a meeting of the committee, cynically, another time, they come up with reasons why they should not support the bill. They're being sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Council of Experts, to anyone. I'm trying to show you two examples today, two examples of what is the face of today's power. It's cynical. But I very much hope that there will be people in this room, I believe they are, for whom human life and human health are above all else. We will support our colleagues and our warriors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u73	Wolf Victor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u74	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, this week President Poshenko made a work visit to Washington where he met with the new US President Donald Trump, Vice President Pens, Minister of Defense of Metis and others. This visit provided an opportunity for the President of Ukraine to call for a new U.S. government to undergo a thorough review of the short and indecisive policies of the previous President Barack Obama, which is extremely inadequate both for curbing Russia's new imperialism and for providing adequate assistance to Ukraine in the aftermath of Russia's armed aggression, the return of occupied territories and accelerated economic development. President Prashenko's visit also provided an opportunity to call on the United States to fully fulfil its commitments under the Budapest Memorandum of Nuclear Disarmament of Ukraine, particularly through the establishment of a bilateral security agreement between Ukraine and the United States and the granting to Ukraine the status of a major non-NATO ally, as proposed, for example, in addressing the American Congress on Security Safeguards, which was recently adopted by the Supreme Council on the initiative of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka. Has President Prašenko taken advantage of this opportunity to achieve these goals? From media reports, such as President Trump's support for the underprivileged and wrongful Minsk treaties, the answer to this question is rather negative. The opportunity to initiate a radical review of U.S. policy on protecting Ukraine was clearly wasted. So I'm going to stop at what I'd like to talk to President Trump, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. About the vast anti-putinian coalition to protect the entire democratic world, as the Anti-Hitler Coalition had once been created, and the deepening of international sanctions against Russia as an aggressor state. About the bilateral security agreement between Ukraine and the United States and the granting to Ukraine the status of the US's main ally outside NATO as a mechanism for practical enforcement of guarantees under the Budapest Memorandum. On changing the form of international negotiations from Minsk to Normandy to Budapest and Geneva for direct participation by the United States and the EU. On the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement between the United States and Ukraine, including the implementation of paragraph 3 of the Budapest Memorandum on the Inadmissibility of Economic Pressure on Ukraine by Russia. And finally, about the need for a new Marshall Plan for Ukraine as a proponent of European civilization in eastern Europe instead of a destructive IMF programme. It was these proposals that Oleg Lasko recommended to President Dusty during the meeting the day before his visa to Washington. Unfortunately, President Prašenko ignored them. Dear citizens, this external political program is definitely being implemented by the Radical Party when it comes to power, the choice behind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u75	Thank you. Ostap Ednak gives the floor to Reveza Alexander Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u76	63rd constituency, Revega Alexander, the city of Berdichov. In the city of Burditch, in the region of Red Mountain today lies the legendary 26 artillery brigade, a newly created military force of special operations called Autobat, as well as other military units. Thousands of military personnel today have no housing and are in line for housing. Taking into account the large number of my appeals and requests to the Cabinet of Ministers in 2016, funds were allocated for the construction of a 60 - year - old house for military personnel. In 2017, in April months, I was asked by the Defence Minister to give an answer as to the state of construction today and how much money is allocated for the construction of the building. I got an answer that sent 18.8 million dollars to build this house, and in IV district they're planning to put this house into operation. I'm informing you that there's no construction going on today, not even a foundation. So I'm asking the Secretary of Defense to do everything I can to rebuild this building. I'm also asking Groysman Vladimir Borisovich to take control of the building. I don't think it's such a big cost, but it's very important for our military personnel, considering that the artillery 26th Brigade was one of the first to defend the sovereignty of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u77	Thank you. Storm Igor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u78	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate my respect for the decision and the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the transfer of the Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Hygiene of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, located in Lviv, to the subordination of the Lviv National Medical University. The goal is noble, the preservation of scientific and preventive work, the improvement of educational work. It would seem that we are solving the questions that are very, very little positive today. What do we have today? It takes 60 days for the management of the University of Medicine to balance this institution, prepare it for work during the fall and winter periods, and arrange it accordingly, requires an order from the Ministry of Health for the transfer to the balance and a corresponding order for the establishment of an inventory commission. And what do you think, a highly professional government. Within 60 days, the Ministry of Health was unable to issue a two - point order. This document is under the dress. There's a question about why he's lying under a dress. Either someone's demanding bribes or there's a simple discreditation of the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations. If it were a single case of such simple banal inaction in the ministry, I would like to say that not all deputy ministers in this situation are doing the same thing, and there's one of them that deserves respect, and I'm calling this person a name, only after the question has been resolved. We have another subject on the town of Lviv. The government ordered that 45 million dollars be allocated to the completion of the prenatal work. He's done his job, he's out. You think in six months from the Ministry, someone came to Lviv and asked why all the work was standing? Nobody beats their finger, but they do drugs, there's a result. Look, 62 cases of botulism and 9 deaths. I looked at in Google about botulism, it's written in America, in France, one fatal case described as history. And here nine died! Do you think it's an accident? No, it's not. In 2015, I applied to the government when I was the minister of Kvetashvili on this issue, forcing them to buy a one - time car. Why don't they do that today? Ah, it turns out that professional knowledge is in the c.o. No minister, she thinks botulism is non-infectious. What can we talk about? I'm calling the Cabinet again. Mr. Groissman, appoint a qualified person to serve as the Ministry so that order can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u79	Ostrika's Tetjana Georgievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u80	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Aunt Ostrikova's Self-Help faction. This week, on Monday, the government, in violation of the deadline, introduced a budget resolution to Parliament. Moreover, this has always been done in the best traditions of all governments when the number was reserved, and the text of the budget resolution appeared only the next day and after my presentation on the Conciliation Council. At the same time, I would like to remind all of us that this year's budget resolution has been introduced by the government, taking into account medium-term planning, namely for three years, it foresees Ukraine's budgetary, financial, tax policy for 2018-2020. What, then, awaits us, and what is included in the budget resolution? The first thing that comes to mind is official recognition by the government that the state cannot keep the exchange rate of the national currency. Last year, it was set at $27.8 per dollar for 2018 and $28.4 for 2019. Now, already in this budget resolution, for 2018 it's $29.3, and for 2019 it's $30 and $50 a dollar. So the government itself admits that the state does not run the course. Second position, expenses. I'm going to give you a few figures, the general prosecutor's office is going from 5 billion this year to 1.8 billion next year, so the general prosecutor's office is going to give you 1.8 billion more. At the same time, education costs remain at the same level, and this is shown in the same way that the current authorities continue to build the police state. This is also confirmed by the fact that the IMF budget and the defence, which is 5 percent of GDP, is 19 percent of the government budget's income, contains only one figure in the budget, without any detail on what this figure will be spent on. And this figure goes to the Ministry of Finance by the National Security and Defence Council. So even the Ministry of Finance probably doesn't know what it's going to be, or how it's going to be, and how it's going to be spent. The Budget Resolution also poses a major threat to fiscal decentralization and to local budgets. They call it very soft: balancing imbalances in the fiscal capacity of local budgets. In fact, the principle will apply: Those who earn more in the local budget will receive more, and those who work badly, the local authorities will grant more. Are we returning to the Yanukovic regime when Donbas, who fed everyone, was constantly receiving huge grants from the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u81	Ten seconds, we agreed on the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u82	30, please, I really need you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u83	Let's give Ostrich 30? All ten, equally, Mrs. Tetjano, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u84	Most of all, my indignation is caused by a part of tax policy that lacks the introduction of tax on the capital. The government directly refused to comply with the requirement of the Ukrainian Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u85	Sorry, Mrs. Tetjano, you're saying we're building a police state. It's a ten-second deal. Popov Igor Volodymyrovich passes the word Link. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u86	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Last night we got a little bit, but we won on the second front of the hybrid war, on the information front. Yesterday it was detained by the law enforcement authorities of a briber, an open anti-Ukrainian propagandist, an agent of the Kremlin, the editor-in-chief of the site "strana.ua" by Igor Hužvo. This man is also. [[Congrats]] And his editorial three months ago began asking me personally for money for not publishing certain materials, in their opinion, which compromise me and the Radical Party. Since then, the law enforcement authorities have recorded all attempts at extortion and blackmail, and the money that was handed over to him during the apprehension of the Huszwa was detained yesterday, and the money, first of all, will be transferred to the court as soon as possible. I want to say that this is the very right action of the law enforcement agencies. We hope that this will not end because there are a huge number of direct Kremlin agents in Ukraine who are fighting propaganda wars, including the Internet site. And we demand that the TSC be created to investigate, where it is financed, who controls and how these anti-Ukrainian information resources are operated. They have to be closed. It's a matter of national security. I want to emphasize, for example, that Igor Huszwa worked as the editor-in-chief of the kreml.org site. How can such people actually feel at ease here and work? And it's very significant that during this detention, all the cream cans and characters like Wilkul, Lukas, were shown to be in jail for the crimes of Maidan. The chaplains, the lionesses, the cones, the little girls, they ran to protect the crowd and get him out of jail. This very clearly demonstrates the entire agency that exists today in Ukraine, exists in the Ukrainian Parliament and in the media. Just an unstarted end of work for law enforcement agencies, for our services. And I think what hasn't been done in three years, our joint efforts should be done in the near future. To win the war, to win Russia. We must first fight for the brains of our citizens and fight against the propaganda that these Kremlin agents have here. They are united by two things: They truly hate Ukraine and love money. That's where they burned. The case against the editor "strana.ua" is pure corruption and bribery and will be brought to a logical conclusion. And I would like to report that there are facts that support Mr. Hužva's direct link with Moscow, his funding with Mr. Ljovcken, who is a direct agent of the Kremlin in Ukraine, and that this site was directed directly by the FSB from Moscow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u87	Thank you. Thank you for your courageous stand. Korczyk Vitaly Andryovich, please. He's handing over Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u88	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. I thank Vitalia Corchik, my colleague, for his word. And today I'm going to talk about Latvia, because it is this country that is one of Ukraine's largest partners in the EU not only in political but in the areas of social and economic activity and consistently supports the interests of our state, both in our Euro-Integration Movement and in the process of reforming our state. Latvian-Ukrainian contacts are constantly being strengthened at different levels, starting with our cultural projects, business interests, ending with cooperation at the level of local self-government. And it is a pleasure that the city of Nizhin, the center of my constituency last year, received the city to the brothers of Preilly in the Republic of Latvia. Ukrainian entrepreneurs are increasingly entering the Latvian market, opening their companies there, creating joint ventures, expanding the export nomenclature of our products, and using this market as a gateway to Scandinavian countries among others. The Republic of Latvia is actively sharing its own experience in reforms, including reforms in local self-government, decentralization of power, government administration, green technology and energy efficiency, etc. Once again, we were able to see that our Latvian colleagues were in a friendly position during our last visit of the Ukrainian delegation to Latvia, which took place quite recently. And today, for us MPs, experts and representatives of local self-government, it is very important to study the experience of Central and Eastern European countries on the issue of improving their energy efficiency. Therefore, our parliamentary group has just initiated working meetings with colleagues from the Latvian Seima and Latvian experts in the field of energy efficiency. And this visit was for active support and collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme under the "Secretariat and Expert Hub with Energy Efficiency". As head of the group of interparliamentary relations with the Republic of Latvia, on behalf of the whole group, I want to thank our Embassy of Ukraine, the entire team. And I want to mark, really, the high organizational level that was given to us during his visit. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the importance of the appointment of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine in the Republic of Latvia as soon as possible, since we do not have a very large term for our ambassador in this state of Latvia. I think that the high level of mutual support and trust between our countries should only be strengthened and preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Valérie Paccan gives the floor to Solovy Yuri Igorevich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u90	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, there has been a draft of the government's pension reform in Parliament for days, and I think it's normal for this to be preceded by a rather serious discussion, both in the government and in the public sector. If we ask whether a pension reform is needed today, well, it is definitely necessary, because the existing state of pension insurance, when people, having the same length of employment and having the same size of salary, depending on whether they got out early, whether they're coming out today, get a different amount of pension is completely unsatisfactory. Will this reform actually solve the pension problem in the future? Well, to my deep conviction, no. And, of course, this reform is completely not enough, because we were already doing similar things in 2004, when the Yanukovic government was due to the so-called pension reform in 2011. What's the problem? Why did the so-called pension reforms end in 2004, and in 2011 they all ended up with a pension crisis? The key reason is that we are reforming exclusively a solid level of pension insurance. We're still, you know, in the distant past while people and the civilized world have long gone and moved much faster. Since there have been three levels of pensions in civilized countries for centuries, at least, when there is a solidarity pension system that performs one function exclusively, it is the protection of people from poverty, when there is a mandatory cumulative pension system that allows people to live comfortably on pensions, and when there is a third level, a voluntary pension scheme that allows people to live comfortably enough on pensions. That is why I believe that today, when we consider the next package of changes to pension reform, we should clearly consider the changes in the package and introduce, starting in 2018, the mandatory accumulation of pension systems. Today, for example, we are looking for funds to build Ukrainian roads from the World Bank or from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, without using our domestic resources. Today we want to find a resource to lend to the Ukrainian business. But as long as the deposit goes into one year, we're never going to get long money in the Ukrainian economy, and these long money can be pension funds. That's why I'm talking to colleagues who support this idea and that idea. We have developed a comprehensive bill with colleagues, a comprehensive one that has been in place since 2018, a mandatory accumulation system that we plan to register as soon as possible. I'm talking to my fellow Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u91	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u92	I am addressing those colleagues in Parliament who are willing to join this work, and we are ready and open to cooperation. Let us work together to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u93	Thank you. Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u94	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable 10 people's deputies from the BBC, 5 from the People's Front, 2 from the Opposition Block, one from the Party. From the will of the people group, the 4 from Self-Help and the 2 from Non-Faction! And the noble fellows of the People's Party of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška who are present in this room are practically in full stock, except for those who are now bringing the radical word of truth to the people of Ukraine on air! Not once have I, Alexy Kirichenko, the leader of the Radical Party, raised questions about the failure to destroy medical science in Ukraine. The following questions were raised regarding the financing of medical institutions: Amosova, Shalimova, Starezska, Romodanova – about the fact that the medical sector cannot be underfunded. And we won. Our words are heard. The government decided yesterday to make changes to the state budget and more than half a billion dollars are earmarked for the financing of the grants of our medical science. I welcome all the chief doctors of these establishments, all those who work and work hard to carry the title of Ukrainian medicine to the world. They perform such operations that we are envied by foreign experts and that some come here to perform medical operations. And that's true. We're good. I thank all the national deputies who supported this initiative and voted yesterday for the budget change. But we understand that this is not all victory. For 2-3 months, there's enough money for institutions to live and work to get people to pay. And I'm confident that this room will find support and the next budget change, and we'll save the medical sector, save the medical lights of our science, and everything will be fine. Taking this opportunity, I point out to society that the Radical Party has fought, fought, and fought not only for the preservation of medical science, but also against the anti-national medical reform that the government is trying to implement. We stood and stood in the interest of the people. Every person, citizen and tax payer, has the right and will have the right to receive free medical care, the right to protect his health, and the right to receive assistance from the State. We will not allow anti-national medical reform to be put into practice. The Radical Party stood and stood.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u95	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u96	The people, the people of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u97	Kirichenko gives the floor to Igor Popov. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u98	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to welcome all the government officials of Ukraine from this high rostrum today with their professional festival. The State Service is our nation's backbone. All the decisions we make remain only on paper until government officials bring them to every citizen. But what decisions we've been making lately in this room and what decisions we're going to vote on in the last plenary week in July. Regrettably, the authorities have recently proposed and prepared decisions that severely narrow down, restrict the social and economic rights of Ukrainian citizens, and lead our people to poverty. For example, yesterday the government introduced to us a pension reform project. We have been promised since the National Reform Board that there will be no increase in the insurance system, if any, since 2020. What do we read in a real bill? The government has been proposing to increase insurance by 25 years since 2018. Moreover, the government is proposing to recalculate the pension ratio: instead of 1.35 to 1 since 2018. What does that mean? That we have a lot of pensioners either not even getting a pension or their pension will be substantially reduced. Instead, we demand that the government conduct a pension index right now and abolish the taxation of the pensions of working pensioners right now. Regarding the so - called medical reform, what are we offered? The closure of hospitals, many hospitals under the form of hospitalizations, the introduction of paid services, the whole secondary medicine transfer on a paid basis, and the creation of a medical tender room that will share money in Kiev. Where, then, is decentralization? All the money that's going to be collected by his medical services. We're definitely against this kind of pseudoreform. We literally voted yesterday for the introduction of heat meters for every house. It would seem the right idea for everyone to pay for the heat he consumes. But we demanded that those counters set up those energy-generating organizations, those organizations with sufficient funds. Rather, no, unfortunately, you decide to have the citizens pay for it. Even amendments to the codes that are adopted here lay down the rules on automatic debt write-off, on the challenge of a citizen to a court on the Internet, again, narrowing his rights. Tariffs are rising and citizens cannot protect their rights. Instead, we demand a new economic policy, a new job creation and a new factory. We demand a real fight against corruption, not a fight against corruption on Facebook alone, to deal with the systemic problems that lead to the very top. We demand not to cancel the moratorium on land sales, but the authorities want to do it even through the Constitutional Court's decision, but rather the development of agricultural production, vegetation, livestock, high.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u99	Ten seconds, please. Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the issue of our rivers. We now have 206,000 kilometers of our rivers. But the question is that we lose nearly 100 kilometers each year. I'd just like to give you some numbers that are kind of an anti-record of Ukraine. Six million people now live along just one river of Dniper, 35,000 people taking drinking water. But we've completely lost navigation. In 1991, 18 million people were transported by our rivers, now nearly 400,000. I'd like to say that in 1991 we had 2.5 thousand passenger ships, today we have 100. Why did this happen? Because we didn't have a national programme for river and shipping and shipbuilding, so unfortunately we don't have one today. Instead of making our river attractive, instead of making the river competitive, taking the lanes off our roads so that the trucks don't crash the road, we're trying to make the river even more expensive today. That is, the Ministry supports the introduction of a river congregation. So instead of lowering the cost of transportation, involving additional transportation, we're trying to tax. I have a question to ask the Ministry of Infrastructure, why are they afraid to make a government bill, and they've already tried through the MPs for the fifth time to introduce a sectoral bill to revive Ukraine's waterways? Because this is being created for one purpose, to create another monopolisticist, who will simply, in Russian, heal those companies that are still trying to work. What do we propose today? First. Cancel the charge for going through the locks under the bridges. That's all going to be 3-4 percent of the cost. Next. We suggest we cancel the excise. That'll just give you 20 to 24 percent of the cost. But first, we're going to get loads off the road, 1 million tons from the road transport can save us almost 790 million dollars in road savings. Secondly, we're going to be able to rebuild the shipbuilding plant, and today we have eight factories in Ukraine that are simplifying, that's almost 100 to 150.000 people who don't have jobs today. We need to create demand for rivers that will allow factories to work somewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u101	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u102	And instead, we're opening the door for our offshores. Why do we legalize offshores? Let's create jobs in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Bereza Borislav Yuhimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u104	I want to address not so many colleagues in the hall, but all the Ukrainians. Yesterday, in Kiev, two blows of the knife killed Sergey Oliynik, an ATO veteran, the former chief of intelligence for the first bat 54 brigades. He was stabbed on the Golden Gate only for defending his son. His son played the synthesizer. People didn't like it, she went to fight, but she went to fight with a knife. And then I killed her. People were killed just like that. They're killed if someone doesn't like that guy at McDonald's. Someone doesn't like who's looking at someone. Humans have become like beasts of prey. I'm talking to the Ukrainians. Surrender! Remember, it is not just a crime; it is also a mortal sin. I want you to understand. If you don't like someone, you can tell them about it, but killing a person just because it annoys you, I don't think that's our way. Besides, I can see that what's happening in society right now is a disgrace, a real shame. We have to stop this somehow. Or psychological aid, or maybe something else. But perhaps if the man who went to handle the knife understood that he could be answered, if a man had a weapon, he would probably not have used it. In general, the right to arms is what distinguishes a slave from a citizen in ancient Rome. I believe that the time when not exclusively MPs, prosecutors, police officers and others have the right to personal weapons, all Ukrainians have the right to personal weapons. This right belongs to us. We're no worse than the Moldovans, we're no worse than the Estonians, we're no worse than the Lithuanians. They have the right to weapons, they use them. Guns are like scalpels. The doctor saves a scalpel of life, and the killer takes a life with this scalpel. Kills on a scalpel, kills people. I want the arms and the right to it to be an integral right of every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u105	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of Martovitch's Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u106	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, have to do with the situation surrounding the assignment of subsidies. There's no secret that the assignment of housing subsidies to our very poor citizens, many of them, as they say, although it does help to make ends meet, does not solve their overall, life and financial problems, especially in the event of a sharp increase in the value of these services over the last three years, but there is also a reverse in this process. According to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on increasing social protection in the face of higher prices and tariffs for utilities, the financing of the costs associated with the settlement of additional costs for municipal services in the context of higher prices and tariffs for services is based on subsidies from the national budget to local budgets for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for electricity, natural gas, heating and water supply, housing, household waste and sewage. So what I want to point out is that the timely compensation for the public spending of local budgets on subsidies depends not only on the sustainability of the budgetary institutions of cities and districts but also on the possibility of any development. Regrettably, however, only dreams of timely government compensation have to be made available to local authorities. For example, in the city of Pavlovgrad, in my constituency, there are over 100,000 inhabitants. During the heating season of 2016 - 2017, more than 25,000 families received grants totalling 184 million dollars. However, as of today, the outstanding debt owed to the service providers is 73 million 700,000 dollars. Of these, more than 3.5 million, including 97,000 for 2016. Inconvenient subsidies with utilities prevent the provision of quality services to the population. This is especially true of companies that provide garbage and OSBB services, which are home-based services where subsidies are financed by money. This has been the case in the vast majority of cities and regions of the country. Therefore, in view of the above, I personally appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to intervene urgently and to take full steps to compensate for the expenditure spent from the local budgets in full order to prevent social tensions in the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u107	Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u108	Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! I want to get some of the garbage facts out of this stand right now. Fact number one. There is no garbage problem in Ukraine. In fact, there are now 300 million tons of accumulated garbage in Ukraine. It has been amassed for years in 32 different regions of our nation. The trash releases a toxic substance like the filtration that is now entering our environment into our environment and slowly kills Ukrainians. Perhaps this is one of the causes of the high mortality of Ukrainians, and Ukraine has taken second place in terms of mortality. I would like to point out that 5 percent of the country's territory is now filled with garbage. This is more than the area, for example, of the Chernobyl area. So you can't say that now trash is just a problem of Lviv. Every day, when summer comes and the weather warms, we see garbage dumps burning in Kharkiv, in Chernig, in Zitomir, in other cities. And believe me, every community, every citizen of Ukraine today is held hostage by the absence of a government policy to deal with solid household waste. Myth Two. It's like taking out the trash, dealing with the trash is just the mayor's jurisdiction, actually, it's not. The point is that under the current legislation, building standards do not allow landfills to be located within the city. So every mayor of this country, it depends on the district government, or the presidential vertical. Myth 3rd, about ephemeral garbage processing plants. The thing is, there is no modern garbage factory in Ukraine today, none. All we have is a garbage burning plant called Energy, built in Soviet times with outdated technologies, it only burns one percent of the country's garbage. And the thing is, it's making ecology worse, and it's felt very bad by the residents of the Kharkiv district of Kiev. Finally, someone says you can make money on garbage. Today, only 6 percent of the substances that are still being processed are in the trash and are already being disposed of. We urgently need to put these bills into the hall, which will launch state policy on waste disposal, on solid waste management. They have been in the voting room for over a year. We need to create conditions for investors to want to build modern garbage treatment plants in Ukraine. And finally, the last myth, as if self-help representatives were starving for garbage. No, they are starving for rights, health.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u109	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u110	It's like the self-help representatives are starving under the administration's walls right now. No, they are starving for respect for the rights, health, and lives of people in these lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u112	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. First of all, I want to join the speakers. and welcome our civil servants with their festival today. Of course, we understand that 90-95 percent of government officials get low wages. We understand that very well, but we must do so to correct this situation, so that government officials will receive adequate funds and do everything in their power to develop our state. I'd like to say from this rostrum that hurts in my district and hurts my voters. First of all, many times from this rostrum has been said and further, in order to be willing to do so, is to settle the rent of the land. And every time we talk, we talk about what's taking land away from farmers, which is important, don't let the Lord not have to come up with a weapon to protect that land. I think we have to do everything we can to get the land lease settled properly. Repeatedly from this rostrum, it is said that the cost of animal production should be returned. And you know, it's very common when we voted for the budget, and we didn't take into account that we didn't think today that the cost of animal farming was going to be returned to the special accounts to protect at least our livestock, and so that we could keep our farmers, farm entrepreneurs, that's animal farming. Well, unfortunately, these bills don't come back, they go through some kind of credit card, they go. It's quite rare to go to a farmer's account. I think it's a very large minus. We will simply find that there will really be no cow left in the village and no farm left. Unfortunately, these are jobs, and we have to pay a lot of attention here. He went on to draw attention to the fact that the decentralization of power is currently responsible for subsidies and administrative costs, and there should be a lot of control over these costs. Obviously, first of all, we need to get them to the social life of our people, first of all, it's medicine, it's to protect all hospitals, it's to protect them so that they have these facilities and they can do everything they can to keep their jobs and that people can get this first aid. But at the same time, at this time, I would like to turn to what is said quite often on television for removing our parliamentary integrity. Dearly beloved, we must all be together, we know that this inviolability has been voted three times for our call. And I think that journalists, first of all, have to control, see who voted for it, who didn't. The voters should know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u113	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u114	That the touch should be removed from each and every one of us. To this day, this question will be removed from the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u115	Sergei Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u116	Dear Ukrainians! During this week, the Anticorruption Bureau transmitted to the Supreme Council a unique submission. It refers to the detection of the activities of two deputies – Polyakov and Rosenblata – who used their MP status to enrich themselves. The story is that for the first time, NAB agents were undercover and documented getting all the bribes they paid for it, and all the restaurant meetings were fixed. It is unique even that the banknote numbers have been copied, including the series of cash that was paid as bribes, and even where the money was spent. In particular, one of the deputies who received the bribe went on the same night and bought two telephones: one gave a gift to his wife, the other kept it. Then it was exposed to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau as evidence of the case. And of course that indicates that the Anti-Corruption Bureau is the very organ that we've been waiting for for so long that it's going to haunt the corrupters and follow, maybe for six months, work undercover and expose all the criminal schemes that are there. But there is a risk, too, that now that we have only one session week left, these people will avoid responsibilities and will not be introduced into the session hall, because the regulatory committee is under the control of the same factions as the MPs and are being submitted to Parliament. So as an MP with my colleague Mustafa Najem, with Svetlana Zalitschuk, with other Eurooptymists, we have suggested that we continue the session of the Supreme Council until all submissions are considered, and next week will be "the moment of truth" – whether the Supreme Council is ready to clean up its ranks and record the inviolability of specific figures, or not. In general, the question of the removal of parliamentary immunity as a constitutional norm has been silenced in this sessional hall, because the elections have worn shirts, entered parliament and enjoyed the use of immunity. And factions' leaders are primarily responsible for this, because only factions' leaders influence the order of the day, and factions' leaders have to break the issue. If they do not violate it, they are part of the conspiracy. And this is one of the slogans that we raised this week during our rally under the walls of the Supreme Council. This is a change in the rules of the game, not only the undoing of the inviolability, but also the amendment of the Electoral Law. That's what everyone promised, they came to Parliament -- they forgot about it. Similarly, the ban on political advertising in the next election, because if we don't, it's going to be again a competition of corrupt money that the oligarchs pour into their pockets, they're going to sit in the session room, and then it's all going to be like a buy-off on the screens, and it's going to be buying voter loyalty, and then they're going to come and rob Parliament again. Therefore, our slogan remains unchanged: the Elections Act, the change in the rules of political advertising, the abolition of parliamentary integrity, and the fight against corruption. This week the next attempt to put the Anti-Corruption Bureau under control by assigning a pocket audience will continue today when the Anti-Corruption Committee is scheduled to meet again. We have to put all our efforts on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u117	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u118	And we have to make every effort to get the Anti-Corruption Bureau to investigate high-level corruption. It is the only hope of the state to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u119	Yuszkova gives the word Igor Mosiychuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u120	Dear Ukrainian people! Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka For the past week, Ukrainian society has been talking about garbage, corruption, amber. I think in order to change something and start talking about the modernization of the country, about its development, about the new economic policy, about the policy of economic nationalism, about the protectionism offered by our Olega Lachka Radical Party, we need to get rid of the garbage first of all. Then he will not be on the streets of our cities. I can't judge because I'm not an investigator or a judge, or if there's a component to the crime of those who are being accused in the amber case. But I know for certain that those, including those national deputies, who refused to legalize amber production are to blame. The ones that left the amber in the Syrian zone in the gray schemes that use different kinds of plots and avoid taxation. It's billions, billions of dollars to raise, restore the Ukrainian economy. When it comes to corruption, there is also a case that occurred yesterday. And it started not yesterday, but in March, when my friend and colleague, Dmitri Linck, began to demand funds so that they wouldn't publish compromising materials. There's no compromising material on Dmitri Linck. And there's nothing to hide from him. So he went and wrote a statement. And three months of Kremlin Agent Huszwa was documented. Full documentation, including funding from the Russian Federation for the financing of the site "Stana.ua". And yesterday, yesterday, he was detained at night and in his wallet, not elsewhere, he was dispossessed of $10,000 that was handed over through a middleman for not publishing Link's material. Yeah, well, I want to pay attention to the Ukrainian community who stood up for this bastard, Agent Kremlin and corruption. It's Wilcule, who's been crying about prison for a long time. This is Lukas, who is supposed to be sitting for the death of the people during the Dignity Revolution to which she called.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u121	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u122	She was like, "Janukovich, come on!".. They are all united by one thing: hatred for Ukraine and love for the Kremlin. But we won't let them do it! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u123	Heroic glory! Before I pass on the word, I will simply turn to my fellow national deputies, who traditionally take pictures of us on the right and the left every Friday. When we were a delegation to the Norwegian Parliament, and we went to the government for an hour of questions, there were three people's deputies in the room. And I said, "Why is that?" They say it's an hour of questions to the government, who has a question, who stays. And I want to tell you honestly in this room: we compromise ourselves every day, and every Friday we compromise ourselves by putting up these photos and making fun of Parliament. Someone thinks we're out of Parliament, we're all parliament. And the humiliation of Parliamentarianism, the humiliation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council, is also the self-demeanor of each and every one of us. Let us treat both ourselves and our colleagues and the Ukrainian Parliament with respect. This is my personal position, and I had to express it. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Tree tree, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanco, political party of the Will-Movement of the New Forces. I would also like to draw your attention to you, Mr. President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as to the Ukrainian Defence Minister's attention to the issue of the affair that continues further with the purchase of military liaison, as well as to the conduct of tests of this military liaison, in accordance with the instructions of the President of Ukraine to determine, however, what is the best link between the Turkish company Asselsan or Elbit, which are competing with each other. On my question last week as to whether the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense know that the trials that are being carried out have not actually passed or are not being tested against the radio-electronic struggle, the equipment from the radio-electronic struggle. The Prime Minister didn't say anything to me, and the First Deputy Secretary of Defense said he didn't know, but he has to report. It's been two weeks. He didn't tell me anything. But Igor Lucenko, Tetjana Rickov and I also went on that Friday, the last session, where this test was taking place, asked General Rapka, who is the commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, whether this test would be carried out and whether it was carried out. He told us that the equipment of the REP was gone, and the day after that the trial ended. This whole story started when on the 7th, think about it, on the 7th of November 2016, a decision was made by the defence minister on the basis of the same Rape that it seemed to have taken such a test before and that Aslesan, a Turkish company that had already been defined without a competition, without all of these tests being the only supplier for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Later, a huge scandal broke out, as Turkish equipment was purchased at the price of an Israeli in one of the top three companies in the world, and a huge scandal erupted where Israeli Prime Minister and other officials intervened. Both the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine have commissioned such a test. The fact that the trial was biased, unobjective, that the methodology was adopted, not by the Nazis, but by its own Ukrainian in order to actually confirm the decision that was made, and to confirm that the only Turkish company that is the best, it has already become absolutely clear. But for us with you and for all of our Ukrainian citizens, and for those who will use the equipment, it is important that this equipment works, that there is no corruption. So all of these facts that we have today, we're going to the NABU, to the Attorney General's Office, to the Ukrainian Security Service, to the President of Ukraine, we're asking our Anti-Corruption Committee to hold separate hearings on this issue so that we don't give corruption a chance to win over common sense, not allowing corruption to influence the quality or inadequacy of our fighters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u125	Thank you. Time's up. But I'm going on for five minutes for an hour from the rostrum. And I just want to let you know right now that Solovay, Litwin, Berez is three performances that we can actually make by that time. No, it's not. That's it. It'll even drag. Colleagues, in 14 hours, five minutes. In those five minutes, that's not going to be 5 anymore, and that's going to be more. But, nevertheless, I did. Yeah, it's going to be nine minutes, right, and these three performances that can actually sound right now. I'll keep you posted. And I invite you to the words of Victor Chumak, to whom he gave the floor for the solo talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u126	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Dniprovsky district, Kiev Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. I can't help but agree with the words our speaker just said. He said about the systematic, daily humiliation of the Ukrainian Parliament, the humiliation of what's going on here in this room. I totally agree with him. But the question is that this humiliation is being done by him and the ruling coalition that it is today. We see a daily, systematic, violation of the Rules. Rules are the Constitution of Parliament. Rules are mandatory actions to be taken by the Ukrainian Parliament. But we see 30 times the vote on laws, we see the introduction of laws without respect for draft laws, without compliance with the procedure, we see the vote by clicking. This is exactly what our Dignity Revolution has been up against, this is what everyone in this room has been talking about, a lot of people, a lot of national MPs who have been talking about the inadmissibility of buttoning. You think the reason is that MPs are bad or bad? No, absolutely not. The question is that in principle politicians do not keep their political promises that they made before they went to the Supreme Council, to the President. This is the result of what electoral system exists in the country today. This is a hybrid electoral system designed by the government of Yanukovic, which has been extended by most Yanukovich in 2011, and has been successfully used by our President to control the Parliamentary Hall in order to control the Speaker of Parliament, in order to control the deputies under his control. In 2014, everyone who went to the elections, everyone, the President, the members of parliament, promised the citizens of Ukraine, I quote literally, "I will do everything possible and impossible to get the elections to the 2014 Supreme Council under the new open-list electoral system." Nothing's done. A coalition of MPs promised to do so in the first quarter of 2015. Nothing's done. The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice reviewed the laws that are now being passed to Parliament and that are in Parliament on changing the electoral system and recommended that they be adopted, considered and adopted in the Hall. Nothing's done, nobody wants to bring it in. And the wallpaper on censorship. On Wednesday before the Supreme Council, there were more than 2,000 people on the territory of the Constitution. Which required politicians to fulfill their pre-election promises, change the electoral system, change the composition of the CLTC, update the CLTC, adopt the necessary laws for political reform, but no central channel showed it, no central channel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u127	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u128	This is the system that the President built today and the ruling coalition. I ask you, citizens of Ukraine, to take your vote responsibly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u129	Thank you. As far as I was concerned, I would like to inform you once again that every time I, as speaker of Parliament, had a non-personal appeal to me, I put it to a vote. On various issues, from the adoption of the government's programme to yesterday's amendment. Every time there was such a signal. I believe that in that respect we are acting honestly and fairly. I think there's dishonesty and injustice in the other issue that we have to do another Ukrainian law, the Labour Code. When MPs don't come to work and on the big questions, including on Euro-integration and on security matters, they're not in the room, which is causing a major crisis in Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, and this is humiliating to the Ukrainian Parliament. When even on NATO issues, when we voted, there was no time to come and participate here in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When they went to the Supreme Council, everyone promised to work here, everyone promised we'd be in the hall, and we'd be doing the legislative work. Regrettably, this important law on the work of each MP also demeans Ukrainian parliamentaryism. I invite you to the words of Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, Ukrainian, especially public, politics reminds me of a trash can that keeps pouring dirty underwear out of it. And I think we're all going to join in teaching each other how to live rather than just work properly and have a proper dialogue. Please tell me what kind of dialogue there might be when, at any request to the members of the government, you usually get such a contemptible answer, or we'll inform you later, and you don't get the answers. That means we don't want to hear or hear each other, that means we don't hear people, that we don't hear the country. Because we represent the country with you, and we need to talk to people about the problems, such as pollution of the same rivers of the West and Gomorrah. How long can you talk? The reaction is zero. We listen to ourselves and each one individually, realizing that words are power. And we don't get the same idea, and we're starting to get branded right now, like they own the real thing for life. And some people actually remind me of a dog in a yard that barks all the time in search of a different host, usually a different host she finds, we don't have an elementary corporate solidarity. For example, Oleg Berezuk, deputy head of the Supreme Council, declared starvation. We have a laugh in the hall, a mockery. Or maybe we should go back to this problem, this is the problem of the whole country. Here data was provided that Ukraine would become a garbage dump. Is this just a problem of Lviv? If Lviv is the only problem, let's localize it, we need to make organizational decisions. But we had to demonstrate basic ethics in our relationship. In this way, obviously, we want people to like us, nothing will come of it, especially since the authorities act in such a way that they do not want to forgive people for their mistakes. We face the need to make fundamental decisions, health care, pension reform, and land issues. If this is the last week's jump, we're going to get the result that we're going to get. But I think if these are the key issues, we need to get them out to talk about society, not how it's done. Or simply suggest that such decisions be made by the new Supreme Council of Ukraine, who would be delegated appropriate powers. If we are told that we do not want to make these decisions, then let them go to people, explain them, people support them in elections, and then they solve the problem. And last of all, with respect to the MP's questions. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to examine the commission that there will be simple receipts that do not give anything. It can't go on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u131	Thank you. Obviously, there should be separate signals on that subject, from which are the exact moments of formal feedback. Let's work together, let's do more together, to make parliamentary control more important. And the last closing act is the Bereza Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u132	End of story.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u133	End of story.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u134	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to remind you that I was never a politician to this call, but I want to remind you of your disgraceful behavior when you sat here and sanctified the Harkow Agreements. Why didn't you ask the Ukrainian people what the Harkow Treaty needed? Why didn't you ask the Ukrainian people, why didn't you ask? You've sanctified the war. You and your brother, your large family, and your family gave us up in Ilowaysk. You haven't answered yet. You'll have to answer for that. Believe me, history and crime have never worked. And when you're here under the umbrella, under the protection of the Party of Regions, you've consecrated those Kharkiv damn agreements that cut off the Crimea from us that solved the war on the Donbassa, in a deal to that merchant who's behind you, Fifth Column, no one's forgotten about it. I agree that people need to be spoken to and addressed. You're probably right about the fact that political garbage is probably what you're referring to. I don't know, I don't know what it is because, for joy, and unfortunately, I've never been a politician before, and I didn't even want to. You made me do it. To do after Iloviak. An investigation that, unfortunately, has not yet been completed. And thanks to you, first of all, because you were the head of the Security and Defence Committee at the time. And you've done it all so that this investigation doesn't come to a logical end. But not that. First of all, I want to welcome all the civil servants. End up in a good place. All those who have a bearing on the public service, those who honor and conscientiously represent the authorities of the State, those who do not sell, those who do their work, despite the meager wages. Unfortunately, we haven't done much to get the public service to become that very incentive to take off professionally, to all the other uses. Unfortunately, the previous state did not. Now in the hall, when we come here, by voting on the laws, we can do that. And that's why I urge my colleagues not to come when there are questions. The day of questions to the government and when everyone knows that only speeches will be made, and then when to vote for the laws. The laws are necessary for the state. And it's over. I'd like to invite all the National MPs tomorrow to visit the Super Bowl of Fatherland's Protector, which will take place at the "College" Stadium, all the funds will go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u135	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u136	All the money will go to the children of the displaced people of this war. So, fellow MPs, come, support. Two teams will meet: the police special forces and the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-23-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches by Ukrainian national deputies is over, as is our week of work. It was uncomplicated, complex, but nevertheless we were able to adopt extremely important laws, to carry out reforms in different areas. And I'm reporting that we're going to have work on the committees next week, then work in the districts. And I wish everyone a productive and active job. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
