ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u1	Good morning, company! Please take up jobs, get ready for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u2	Can we register? So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. And please register. [[10:03:57]] 366 deputies registered. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Sergio Ivanovich Berezenka. Hello. [[Applause]] And also in Andrija Alexiyovich Vadaturski. Let's say hello to our colleague. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes for the performances of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I would like to emphasize the factions and groups of MPs. And the speeches will be in the sequence in which the recording will be recorded. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to record, prepare for the recording. So I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups. Please sign up. From the Radical Party is Oleg Valeriyovich Ljasko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, yesterday we were all with you, millions of people who had rebelled against the looting policy, yesterday we won a huge victory with you. The National Committee for the Regulation of the Municipal Service Market has cancelled its robbery decision to install a counter payment. If this decision had been put into effect since April 1st, in Ukraine each of us, each of the people using gas counters, regardless of the amount of gas consumed, would have paid 24 billion dollars per year. Where would these funds go: to upgrade networks, to raise people's living standards, to raise wages and pensions. No! No! These costs would go into the pockets of the oligarchs of Firthash and his company here in Ukraine, especially those sitting in this room, and these funds would go to power-enrichment. Because it was the corrupt plot between Firthash and Ljovcken, President Prashenko, and the current authorities that led to the decision of the NCREKP to take a turn for the looting of Ukrainians. You and I have achieved that this decision has been overturned. But this is not enough to restore justice, to lower the price of gas. Next thing you know, the Radical Party faction is a return to the state administration of public gas distribution networks and national ownership. Because in the villages people built pipelines for their money, then free of charge, they twisted their hands, took the gas pipelines built for human expense, on balance, and now they're using it for free, and the Ukrainians have to pay for it. So we demand that the government make a decision and return to the state administration the gas distribution networks that are now being used free of charge by the Firtash gang under the cover of power. Our third requirement is the responsibility of the NCRECR. These Roschenko wolves in sheep's clothing, put there by President Prashenko to rob Ukrainians, they make corrupt decisions for which every Ukrainian pays from his own pocket. The Radical Party faction requires the President of Ukraine to meet with our faction, and we demand the resignation of the head of the UNCREKP Wolf and the resignation of the entire composition of the NCREKP. New people are to be selected at a transparent competition that will not make decisions in the interests of President Dustenk and the oligarchs that have been excavated in the NCREKP today. And the last. We demand a decision to lower the price of gas. Seven thousand dollars for gas is absolutely not a price, it's a price for corruption of power of every Ukrainian. That's why we demand lower prices for gas and tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u4	From the Self-Help faction of Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u5	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Official statement of the political faction of Self-Help in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In recent weeks, there has been a trend towards disproportionate use of force by law enforcement agencies, the use of people without identifying signs for operations, and the involvement of police in the work of the legislative body. A series of events in various parts of Ukraine paints a picture of terror against its own people, a violation of human rights at peaceful meetings, while using law enforcement agencies to protect the pro-Russian meetings, as well as raiding schemes that destabilize the country and the people. On March 15th, four police officers illegally set up a coalition from the People's Front. Almost immediately there was information about police involvement with the occupying forces of the Russian Federation and its involvement in the war with Ukraine. This caused indignation and caused riots under the IMF, requiring investigation, removal from office, and punishment of the guilty. In response yesterday, the National Police detained the shareholders by demonstrating disproportionate force against the peaceful meeting. At the same time, unknown people in form, without identifying signs, were detained and taken to the police station by four observers in the Lugansk district, which had previously provided for the blockade of trade in occupied areas. It is hard to imagine any other purpose in this disproportionate use of law enforcement, except to intimidate people and destabilize the country. On the same day, April 10, Odessa had the opposite event, but it also angered people. In fact, the pro-Russian rally in Odessa was protecting the National Police, instead of using force against people who were indignant about it and defending pro-Russian activists. The authorities also shut down the event in Poltava on April 6, which resulted in a raid between residents of the house who opposed the illegal capture. Last week, the raiders and the public were involved with the aunts. As a result of the intervention, two participants in the war with Russia received knife wounds, and the police against the public and the aunts did not intervene. There's a reprisal against the self-help party. In various areas of Ukraine, criminal conduct is being opened and searches are being carried out: Lviv remains in siege, and the people's deputies from Self-Help are harassing the media. Each incident could have been an accident, but the number and the demonstration are disturbing. The law enforcement agencies, which are supposed to protect human rights, use unknowns for black work, take sides in raid schemes and pro-Russian scenarios, and destabilize the situation, and lift people up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u6	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u7	The Self-Help faction calls on the Prime Minister of Ukraine to publish the names of police officers and soldiers of the National Guard who have given orders and participated in these events, to release those responsible for terror against their own people and destabilisation in the country, to raise people, to report to the factions on the motives and intentions of the government when adopting these decisions. The self-help faction strongly invites the Prime Minister of Ukraine to meet the faction as soon as possible this week to clarify the reasons and consequences of the situation that is changing in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u8	From the Opposition Block, Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich. Surrenders Yuri Boyke. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The events of recent weeks have shown that the country continues to leap into the midst of a political socio-economic crisis. In meetings with the electorate, I am often asked what this Parliament and the ruling coalition are doing, show the development programme of the state and the package of laws that Parliament should consider for its implementation. Most countries were in crisis, but in similar situations governments had always developed programs under which laws were drawn up. Enough to mention Roosevelt’s new course during the Great Depression, a program for Germany, Singapore. How we get out of the crisis remains a mystery not only for ordinary citizens but also for the ruling coalition. In Ukraine, the collapse of state institutions is ongoing, and the main is the social and economic protection of citizens. Under each of these directions, a program of restoration is needed, backed up by law. We offered our program to protect our citizens — forced displaced persons. In order to support it, refugees need to adopt 14 bills, and we demand that they be considered as soon as possible. The socio-economic crisis has become a beneficial ground for increasing crime in the state. The loud resonance killings in the center of Kiev, bank riots, gunfire from diplomatic shells are becoming a daily phenomenon, and there is a complete degradation of the law - enforcement system that cannot contain the growing wave of crime and radicalism. None of the resonant crimes of late have been exposed, regardless of the loud statements made by officials and politicians. At last, society learned about the conditions for receiving the IMF tranche, which make the lives of most Ukrainians worse. We require a review of the conditions of cooperation and transparency of negotiations with the Fund's representatives. In three years, the social protection of pensioners has been completely destroyed. That's why we insist on reviewing the terms of the State Budget in part of the pension increase. We demand a report from the government on key areas of activity, as well as a presentation to Parliament of a realistic programme on the exit from the socio-economic crisis. Otherwise, Parliament should go to the early elections to prevent a major political crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u10	Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolajovic, group "The Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u11	Dear Ukrainian people, dear Mr. Head, colleagues! Two weeks from now, the 31st anniversary of the accident will be on the fourth power grid of the Chernobyl nuclear station. Usually, by such dates, the authorities are allowed to report to society what it has done for the victims and to cope with the consequences of the tragedy. I'll try to do it for the authorities. The fourth zone of enhanced radiological control was thoughtlessly cancelled. Category IV already affected cannot form a disability that has been identified by the MIEC as a causal link to the accident. Free nutrition for children in radioactive pollution areas is limited, free treatment is reduced, shelters are not provided with affordable shelters, payments are removed, and food is provided in contaminated areas. If last year there were 63 million government budgets. 61 million dollars for comprehensive health care and oncology treatment in Chernobyl victims, now it's zero. Although this is recorded in the final budget positions of 2017, what has been done today? Absolutely nothing. Last year, Law 2093 was voted in this room as a whole in 261 votes. He was the only one who could comprehensively alleviate the problems of the Chernobyl family. But he was taken over by the President, and the President's veto was out of votes. To the fullness of the paws of happiness for people living in areas bordering the Zone of Deprivation, Mayor Lvov Sadov first, and then Deputy Mayor Kyiv Panteliev stated that it would be good to make a garbage disposal zone and a grave for solid household waste. I find it difficult to pick out words to determine whether it is helplessness, incompetence, or even a loss of common sense. Instead, I want to give an example of how in a civilized world the problems of territory are solved after technological catastrophes. For example, in 2011, after the Fukushima accident, Japan provided all the evicted homes with monthly compensation for psychological suffering. These costs are tax-free, this is compensation for lost real estate, lost wages. Free medical care is also provided. They don't even think about creating a garbage range in Fukushima. Dear colleagues, this week we have two very important government bills. This is Bill 5594 and 5297. The first suggests that a wife or husband be granted a pension in connection with the loss of a keeper - examiner regardless of the cause of death in connection with the Chernobyl disaster. The second is to renew the right of children who lost one of the parents, as well as the children who were evacuated, to receive annual health care. I call on all MP factions and groups to support the initiatives and provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u12	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u13	But I ask you to ensure that there are deputies to vote and to support these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u14	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko will be speaking from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u15	Today at the meeting of the Fatherland faction in the morning, we gave the citizen of Lithuania Algis Shimánutis the Honorary Literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fact that this man, as a Lithuanian, is working loyally to help our front. He's collecting humanitarian aid all over the world, and he's already collected 170 tons of the most valuable cargo: drugs, security systems, 50 high-quality machines. He dedicated his life to this, helping children, pregnant women. Against this background, when thousands of volunteers in Ukraine are doing the same thing, our authorities have decided to build a mega-corruption facility for about a billion dollars, which is called a bona fide. So this subscription to the gas network is such a corrupt device that Ukraine has never seen before. And it's because the people went up against the President, against the clans that surround him, that 106 local councils held special emergency meetings and insisted that the President cancel the decision, and it became clear that the leader of the NCREKP Wolf was simply a puppet. The president gave him an order, and he overturned that decision. This is the victory of the Ukrainian people, and that means we can stop it. And that's why we think that now we have to hand over all the documents in the NABA about this dress and see how much they really are in the anti-corruption body. But the second big affair that's going on is the sale of agricultural land, you know that. And that's why our "Fatherland" team has merged with Ukraine's All-Ukrainian Farmers Association, and we've started all procedures to hold a nationwide referendum banning the sale of agricultural land, and we have to ask the people if they want to sell land. On April 19, we are holding large gatherings of an initiative group to secure a meeting of 3 million citizens of Ukraine. We're going to have an initiative group of thousands of people who are going to be doing this important thing for Ukraine. And just as we stopped all the gas subscription gears together, so in the basis of the U.S. referendum, we have to stop the mega-corruption trade for agricultural land. The people have power, power, and power.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u16	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u17	And it can stop both the President and his mafia clans from being corrupt. The forces are, we'll fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u18	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we have come to the finish line in the acquisition of a visa-free regime with the European Union. This is certainly the credit of all the Ukrainians who have been granted the recognition of Europe by their persistent struggle for dignity and freedom. At the same time, I want to return three years ago when after the victory of the Dignity Revolution, the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk set itself an ambitious goal. In parallel with the signing of the Association Agreement, Ukraine has embarked on a very difficult way of implementing the visa liberalisation plan with the European Union. This unified plan contained over 140 requirements. Many viewed it as an illusion and an unsurpassed task for Yanukovitch to the last thread of the country, a country worthy of accepting the challenge of the Kremlin's armed aggression. A routine and hard work, sometimes with the heated debates in this room, the government and I have adopted important but sometimes very difficult decisions. Anti-corruption reform, justice and police reform, systemic changes in the energy sector, strengthening resilience, restoring the Ukrainian army, ProZorro, improving macroeconomic indicators and reducing government debt, all of this has been in the common treasury of a visa-free regime. Even the greatest skeptics were to admit that in the short term, Ukraine had fulfilled all of the same requirements of the European Union. Today we must prepare ourselves for the meeting of the visa-free regime, which Ukraine will finally acquire after the decisions of the EU Council and the European Council. On April 7, the State Migration Service issued over 3 million biometric passports, issued daily from 9 to 12 thousand. The People's Front calls on the Ukrainian Security Service and the State Department to ensure the smooth functioning of the electronic processing system and the issuance of biometric documents to citizens. We call on the Ukrainian government to allocate more than 200 million dollars to create new service centres to issue passports and other documents. This is to alert possible queues for obtaining biometric passports. With the introduction of a visa-free regime with the European Union, the issue of the introduction of a visa regime with the Russian Federation as an aggressor country is acute. The People's Front consistently requires this important decision. Relations with the Russian Federation should take place in sanctions. In addition, the visa regime. Crossing the border with the aggressor state is a matter of national security and protection of the Ukrainian state. The issue of national security is also the improvement of the work of government authorities. That's why we're restoring the function of parliamentary control. Last Wednesday we listened to the so-called NAZK management report, and I had no doubt that the work of this body should be fundamentally changed. Dear Mr. Head, I appeal to you this week to consider a government initiative that will help organize the work of NAMC and correct many mistakes. And so that the three thousand hostages, the civil servants who wanted to make the declaration and didn't make it because of the irresponsibility of leadership, would be able to do it. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u20	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u21	We are also awaiting this week's report in the Parliament of the Heads of the NCREKP, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Maintenance Fund. I want to hear an reasoned answer to the question, in whose interests did the NCRECR put a gas subscription, and in fact a tax in favour of Firtash, Ljovčina? Why did the cost of street lighting increase by 5 times since January 1, and now the village is in complete darkness at night? Let the Antimonopoly Committee answer why it did not oppose the tobacco monopoly in Ukraine for the benefit of Russian oligarchs who finance terrorists in the ORDLO.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u22	Please finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u23	Why was monopolization agreed on, or not all the obelergies in favor of the Russian oligarchs who voted in favour of the illegal annexation of Crimea? The holding fund has to answer the question of why they've put together a privatisation plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u24	Thank you. Arthur Gerasimov, from Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We begin the sessional week, which will continue the radical changes in the judicial system in Ukraine. It is one of the most important reforms of the state, the construction of an independent judiciary. Today, as you know, there are overwhelming bills in the agenda that directly regulate the work of the Constitutional Court. In particular, this is Bill 5336-1, which creates a real mechanism for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court on an independent, transparent basis. And for the first time in national history, we're creating a constitutional complaint institution. We are introducing a tool that will create conditions for every Ukrainian citizen to defend their rights when the decisions of the courts have violated or restricted them. This practice has been established in all democratic countries of the world. Equally important for the successful completion of the judicial reform in Ukraine is also Bill 5425, which introduces the financial independence mechanism of the Constitutional Court from the State executive authorities. In this way we create the main pillars of the independence of the judicial system in Ukraine and we clear any grounds for external influence on the activities of the Constitutional Court and its members. And this will be the main guarantee of the impartiality and transparency of the KSO. Another fundamental bill for the rule of law in Ukraine is draft Law 6232. The proposed changes, developed jointly with the public, including the Judicial Reform Council, are primarily aimed at improving the procedural mechanisms and completing the formation of a new Supreme Court. One of the modern introductions of this bill is the introduction of an electronic court. At the same time, I cannot help but overlook the issue of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please bear in mind that Valérie Gontarev headed the main financial institution of the State at the time of the war in the country. Ukraine lost a great deal of its foreign currency companies. And let's remember that we managed to stop inflation, we managed to significantly increase the country's gold reserves, we were able to clean up the banking system. And today we have to thank this man for his work in this office. And what I want to tell you is that today is evidence that the National Bank of Ukraine has done a remarkable job, and there are a lot of processes that have turned out to be positive today. Moreover, on Thursday, as you know, we must adopt the Power Market Act (4493). I want to emphasize that this is what the entire Ukrainian energy market expects of us, which is what our foreign partners expect us to do, so I ask everyone to get together on Thursday and adopt this law. And as far as CROSS is concerned. I would like to remind you that the decision to suspend the decision of the NCREKP was taken after the address of the President of Ukraine and after an appeal was made by the faction of the Petra Prashenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u26	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich of the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! We have the last plenary week before a long break in the work of the Supreme Council, and so I would like to make it really productive. To that end, we need to consider a number of important initiatives. The first thing I'd like to focus on is your esteemed colleagues, April 26, is 31 years from the day of the Chernobyl disaster. And we should not simply honor liquidators, but also legally defend their rights. Therefore, the MP's Rebirth Group introduced Bill 6292 for Parliament's consideration, which restores the social guarantees of the Chernobyl population. First of all, it's retirement, it's health care. The proposed changes will affect nearly 2 million people affected by the disaster, more than 108 thousand of whom are disabled. So it's very important that we can consider this bill at this plenary week, for example, on Thursday. And another very important issue that stands in order today is Bill 4355. This is about the administration of state lands outside of populated areas. In 2002, these powers were taken to local communities and are now deprived of the right to manage such lands. It is absurd when the issues of haystacks, pastures, even cemeteries are decided, not by people living in the village, but by officials assigned to the district center assigned to Kiev. In this situation everyone suffers: they suffer primarily from local budgets, because communities do not affect their filling, they suffer because they cannot solve their own problems in the village, they cannot solve the land issue. It is therefore essential that this bill be voted on in the second reading and in general. And we must restore people's right to rule the earth. He is, indeed, waiting for him in places, awaiting local self - rule. And the land issue is a real step towards powerful and self-sufficient communities. Only after the solution, once again, can the land issue be talked about real decentralization. And another important moment. Today’s Cabinet of Ministers is a year old. There's a lot of questions in the MP's rebirth group for ministries and departments. First, to the Ministry of Health, which thus far does not have a director. When we communicate with the electorate, they have a lot of questions for this ministry. For example, a very important situation has run out of funds for our children’s treatment abroad, such as cancers and children who suffer from diseases that are not being treated in Ukraine. Last year, 380 million dollars were allocated for these purposes, and this year, two and a half times less, and this is a matter that needs to be addressed immediately and urgently. So the MPs would like to hear the government report on the work done and to hear what strategic directions of work are defined by the Cabinet of Ministers for this current year? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u28	Thank you. So the statements from the factions and groups are finished, and we're going to look at the agenda. Colleagues, I'd like to reexplain the logic of today. We have first questions about the legal policy bloc, and of these, the main one is the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. 747 amendments to deviation, a very thorough, extensive bill. Then a block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session, where questions on parliamentary reform will be proposed, after that block of agrarian issues. And I, colleagues, will ask you to work without interruption today, perhaps after considering the bill or during its consideration. Above all, 747 rights are very large and extensive work. And I would ask that these right-wing authors, who especially insist on their rights, take the floor, because otherwise we can't go through all the questions that were scheduled for today in the agenda of the day. So I encourage my colleagues to work effectively. And I'm going to consider the first issue of the agenda, this is the draft Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine 5336-1, this is the second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, frankly, have done a great deal of work carried out by the committee in conjunction with the Parliamentary Office, together with representatives of the law-enforcement bodies, together with representatives of the Council on Judicial Reform at the President of Ukraine, together with representatives of civil society. I'm just going to remind you that after the second reading. The first reading was adopted on the basis of February 9, 2017, this bill, which was created by a working group that included all the individuals I listed. And accordingly, those members of the committee who thought it appropriate to participate had absolutely free access. And we worked extremely hard for two months. I very much hope that this work will not be in vain. And on March 22nd, at a committee meeting, we discussed the relevant proposals on behalf of a working group led by a committee chairman, which included the committee's board of directors, which was composed of 33 members of the committee of 22 members of the committee, which was a large representative working group. Accordingly, the committee supported those proposals that were made in the form of a comparative table. It's in your possession. If it's very short, I have to tell you, the main thing that we agreed on in the form of a straight line was those amendments that were meant to confirm the position of the Venice Commission. You know that this bill after adoption was the subject of a review by the Venice Commission that put out a whole series of conceptual observations. And the corrections that reflected the main story of those warnings of the Venice Commission were taken into account by our committee. In addition to this table, the Committee has considered and asked the Supreme Council to consider the following. We suggest that this bill be effective not a month from the day of publication, as it was in the first edition, because it was then calculated that the bill would be adopted for the validity of changes to the Constitution, and that in order to synchronize its acquisition of validity together with October 2016, along with amendments to the Constitution, such a rule was proposed. Since this rule is not relevant at this time, more than half a year later, we have stretched it out, and the committee is asking for it. Supports and asks Parliament to uphold the right to take effect immediately after this law has been published. In addition, we stress and confirm once again that when it comes to a competition for vacant seats for a judge of the Constitutional Court, it takes place within the general term of the competition provided for in part 6 of this article, that is, within 2 months. And that's very clearly reflected in the text, so that everyone understands that very well. Dear Mr. Head, I don't want to stop at all the nuances that the committee has considered. I think it would be fair for the economy of time if we went along with the amendments and in case.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u30	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u31	I'm ready to comment on each of these. And where the committee doesn't want to agree to the session room, I'm also going to say that this is a committee position, and let the session room be defined, because a whole series of amendments are more political and legal in nature, and this is where Parliament needs a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u32	Thank you. So let's move on to the amendments. Please be prepared. 2nd, King. Don't insist. 3rd, Odarchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, this Constitutional Court Act, I believe, is such a "broadcast," which, according to beautiful slogans, in nice new words makes the conditions of judiciality worse in Ukraine. I. So this right here is a great example. The legal tradition of Ukraine and many countries around the world is that the courts have chambers in their composition and that the chambers form colleges. The Senate named the highest court in a historic period of Ukraine in the days of the Krapadsky hemmanate, which lasted about 9 months and ended, unfortunately, with the promise of the Krapadsky to unite Ukraine with Russia. Are we even for this period? In other countries, the Senate is the Upper House of Parliament. Let's not make a mess, we already have a big room in court, so let's have the court units just call them "ship chambers." Please vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u35	I can only comment that it's because we have a large chamber so that we don't confuse the terminology of the "big room" and the "little chambers" of the so-called "small rooms" that we supported the idea expressed by the Venice Commission to propose a new Senate institution within the framework of the Constitutional Court. I think this is a constant European practice. It is in all cases, like Ukrainian, constitutional courts, that the courts act by the Senate, not by the Houses. So I would ask you not to support this amendment on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u36	Thank you. Amendment 3 of the People's Deputy Odarchenka shall be put to the vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:41:19]] For-81 The decision is not made. 4th, Novak. Don't insist. 5th, Chumak. Don't insist. 7th, Novak. Don't insist. Eight o'clock, Alexeyev. Don't insist. Nine o'clock, Chumak. Don't insist. 10th, Vlasenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Well, actually, this whole bill, it's all about turning the Constitutional Court from an independent body of justice into a sort of self-involved thing that will decide itself mostly. And then. and will be controlled, in fact, by various factors outside, not inside. And then it's totally Freud's. The Freida Committee has rejected my ruling, which proposes to call the Constitutional Court a collegiate and independent body, i.e. the committee considers that this body is not a collegiate body, is dependent, is not constantly active and is not exactly independent. And then I propose that this absurdity be corrected and that I support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u38	I'm totally making this up to me, wrong logic. The Committee believes that the Constitutional Court Act should reflect the standard of the Constitution. And it's the standard of the Constitution that's word for word there. As for collegiality, independence, the consideration of the question of anyone in the collective order, it's still about collegiality and independence and the court and the judges. We need to read the law as a whole, not just the first article. I don't think that's enough to understand his logic. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u39	So I put to the vote the amendment of 10 of the People's MP Vlasenko, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:43:23]] For-94 The decision is not made. 11th, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 12th, Janicki. Don't insist. 13th, Welcome. Don't insist. Fourteenth, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 15th, Chizmar. Don't insist. 16th, Solvar. Don't insist. 18th, Germany. Don't insist. 19th, Rosenblatt. Don't insist. 22nd, Spinov. Don't insist. 32nd, Vlasenko. Don't insist. What's that? 22-a, right? Please turn on the microphone. Sphinx, 22 corrections. 18th, right? Turn on the microphone. That's 18 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, this amendment was intended to ensure that the Constitutional Court should ensure not only the rule of the Constitution but also the rule of law, as enshrined in article 8 of the Ukrainian Constitution. But what is the rule of law if, in violation of article 116 of the Rules, all political requests and wishes have been made? For example, the amendments to the Notaryate Act, the State Registration of Real Property Rights Act, the Higher Education Act, the Penal Enforcement Code, the Offices and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Judgments. What are the amendments to the Constitutional Court? Will the Constitutional Court Act be adopted in an unconstitutional manner? Thank you. Please support my amendment, number 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u41	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u42	The point is that the committee did not support this amendment for the following reasons. The Constitution states that the work of the Constitutional Court is based on the principles of the rule of law, that is, the court itself carries out its activities on these principles rather than assessing the conformity of the principle. It's a fundamental principle, a fundamental principle for it to act at all. And it should adequately ensure the rule of the Constitution through the exercise of constitutional jurisdiction. And you want to change the essence of these basic principles, which the committee doesn't think is right. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u43	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote Amendment 18, National Deputy German. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. 22nd, I'm sorry. 22 revisions. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:46:04]] For-64 The decision is not made. 32nd. Vlasenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] 18th. 18th, Germany, right? Turn on the microphone. 18th Amendment, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Germany, the Opposition Block. The amendment I proposed concerned the only thing that anyone on one hand or on one side stood up and ruled out that the Constitutional Court was not a body of constitutional justice. This is a disgraceful decision and the content of this article, and it is therefore proposed that we all recognize that the Constitutional Court is a body of constitutional justice, which will allow citizens to be protected not only in Ukraine but also in the European Court of Justice. So I ask you very much to support this amendment and put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u45	I just really don't want to get too deep on the question of the theoretical debate here, whether the Constitutional Court is a judicial body, or whether it's a special constitutional body that exercises constitutional jurisdiction, and it's not exactly a court. Rather, it is a quazisud and, more specifically, a constitutional body entrusted with separate powers of quasisud. I don't want us to take this situation to the session room, because not all of us are going to get through it. This is a dilemma between constitutionalists, but for me, the changes to the Constitution have placed a point in this debate, and they have clearly defined it as an exclusive body of constitutional jurisdiction. Period. So let's stick to this constitutional logic that we took along with the Obocak when we voted together for the changes in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u46	Do you insist on voting? The 18th Amendment of the German People's Deputy. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. [[10:48:31]] Z-70. The decision is not made. 32nd, Vlasenko. Don't you insist? He insists. 32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u47	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In fact, 32 amendments regulate the financing of the Constitutional Court in the general system of financing public authorities. We fully understand that the mechanism and methods of financing are one of the means of influencing the Constitutional Court or the possible impact on the Constitutional Court. And then, first of all, the Constitutional Court itself can't determine its funding, that's the first. And secondly, these sources have to be absolutely clear, transparent and independent. So this amendment tells us that any impact of the Cabinet of Ministers on the formation of the budget of the Constitutional Court itself, the Constitutional Court itself, on its financing budget, should be taken away from it in general, just as any state authority in Ukraine is financed by a single line of the State budget. And there are no problems, so this is happening in many countries of the world. Therefore, please support not to apply the financial mechanism to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u48	Please comment, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u49	I want to say that the committee essentially supports the idea that the amendment author has just expressed. Moreover, on the committee we had a discussion on this issue in the working group, but we left it unaccounted for, given that Parliament would then consider a bill amending the State Budget Code, where these issues should be taken into account in substance. And we're willing to suggest to the author that the logic he's just expressed is in that law to take it into account in the second reading with this position that would make it impossible for anyone, including budgetary and financial pressure on the Constitutional Court. We don't deny it, we just don't think it's an object of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we put to the vote Amendment 32 of the People's MP Vlasenko. Please make up your mind. [[10:50:49]] For 113 Please proceed with the amendment number 33 of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u51	Thank you. Well, as for the previous amendment, I don't quite understand the position of the committee when they're supporting the amendment and they're rejecting it on the committee. Well, it's probably a logical logic that can be applied. With regard to 33 amendments, it is technical. But what she's saying is that if, in commenting on previous amendments, the head of the committee said that we should refer to the Constitution, in this amendment, we refer directly to the Constitution, without interpreting the principles on which the Constitutional Court is based. But I would like to emphasize again. In fact, the whole law that is now being proposed for adoption does not exactly solve the basic task that this law would have before it. He does not restore trust in the Constitutional Court as an institution. This trust is now completely ruined. And this trust, unfortunately, will not be restored by this law. We're just going to identify the state of influence that is in the Constitutional Court and the possibilities to influence its decisions that are so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u52	Please comment to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u53	I want to make up for what has just been said about the principles set out in the Constitution. It is the committee that insists that the principles contained in part two of the 147th article of the Constitution, believe me, I know by heart, are clearly reflected in the Constitutional Court Act. And you think you need to make a general blanking rule. This is where the principles of the Constitution are defined. And these principles, these are exactly what you're talking about. Collegiates, independence. So you supported it, and you don't support it. And we didn't support it because it's here. And that makes perfect sense. I mean, there's no problem, it's a technical thing that, to me, in this case is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, let's go to Amendment 33 of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. [[10:53:08]] Z-91 91 people's deputies, not your amendment. 34th National Deputy Chižmar. Is he insisting? I can't see. Don't insist. 35th Janicki, National MP. Don't insist. 36th Janicki. Don't insist. 37th, Chizmar. Don't insist. 38th, Murray. Don't insist. 39th, Welcome. Don't insist. 40th, Murray. Don't insist. 41st, Chumak. Don't insist. 42nd, Vlasenko. Please, it's Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u55	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, this amendment refers to the status of the Rules of Constitutional Court. The capacity of the Constitutional Court itself to determine a huge number of issues by its own rules, not always using or using the requirements of the law, is an element of the mechanisms that I have been talking about. We create a thing in ourselves from the Constitutional Court when they set up their own procedures for dealing with cases, when they set their own limits on handling cases, when they do not set themselves according to the law ethical requirements for their conduct. All of this shows that we are giving these questions to the Constitutional Court for ransom. Therefore, to the Constitutional Court, in the composition in which it is today, including those judges who have made decisions regarding the usurpation of Yanukovich's authority, we give them these powers. I find that unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u56	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. Please vote in favour of Amendment 42 of People's Deputies Vlasenko. Please vote. [[10:55:13]] For 116 43rd, Anointed One. Don't insist. He insists. Very good. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u57	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. First of all, my dear colleagues, I would like to thank the head of the Committee, Ruslan Knazevitch, for the thorough work that was organized on the basis of the committee and in which I personally and our colleagues from the People's Front participated and, indeed, did not work for a week. But, less than that, we've made a lot of amendments, and this amendment, which, to me, is still a principle that is very similar to the previous amendment of the previous speaker, still establishes that the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court should govern purely the internal rules. We have an obligation, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, to state authorities and local self-government bodies and their officials, to act only on the basis of the powers laid down in the Constitution and the laws, so that we can now allow the Constitutional Court to establish a procedure for dealing with cases, I find it inappropriate. So I want to put this amendment to a vote and ask the room to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, please vote in favour of Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputies of Amazanova. Please support me, colleagues. [[10:56:55]] For the 120th. Please proceed with the amendment, People's Deputy Novak. Are you insisting? Not the National MP, 45th, Odarchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u59	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Mr. Ruslan, you have rightly called the Constitutional Court, after the adoption of this law, quasi-court. It's a very appropriate formulation that fits what you're about to accept. The activities of the Constitutional Court cannot be regulated by an internal document, a regulation. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, which took effect on 30 September 2016, established a new edition of article 153 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Accordingly, the order of the organization and the activities of the Constitutional Court, the status of judges, the grounds and order of appeal to the court, the procedure for the examination of cases, the enforcement of decisions are determined by the Constitution and the law, exclusively the Constitution and the law. Therefore, there can be no rules. Why Ukrainian judges work according to the procedural codes adopted by the Supreme Council, and the Constitutional Court itself imposes rules. This is wrong, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u60	Please give the committee a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u61	I have to give you an explanation, because a whole series of things applied to the Rules of the Constitutional Court. Friends, this is again the question of discussion. Maybe I'll make a big discovery for someone right now because it was said that the Constitutional Court cannot act on the basis of regulations. So I'll tell you that in most countries of the world, there are no laws on the Constitutional Court. The left part of the European Constitutional Courts, for example, I am absolutely responsible to you, acting on the basis of an internal regulation that is comparable, think, after decisions by the Constitutional Court to the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine. The same in part we, in Ukrainian realities, also had, you know, that the Constitutional Court's Rules, which were duly adopted by the previous court after the adoption of the law in 1996, also after the Constitutional Court's decision, received the appropriate constitutional confirmation. And a whole series of procedural matters still exist in this regulation, on the basis of which the Constitutional Court takes its decision. Of course, this is a question of theoretical discussion, whether it is appropriate to have both the law and the regulations. But we have a situation that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u62	Thank you. Please vote for the amendment of the People's Deputy Anointed Number 43, please. Sorry, Odarchenka, we're having a fight. 45 amendment of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. No more distractions, sorry, please. [[10:59:56]] For-75 75 votes, not supported. Let's move on. 46th National MP Janicki. Don't insist. 47th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. Thank you. 48th, Murray. Don't insist. 49th, Krulko. He insists. Please, microphone to the people's deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u63	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that part three of article 3 suggests that the court approves other acts governing the organization of its work in accordance with the law and regulations. At the same time, part one and part two does not indicate that the court approves any other acts. Therefore, the word "other acts" is not logical and understandable, and it can lead to inaccuracies and misunderstandings. So my suggestion is to exclude part three so that it does not create a condition when a court can pass any other acts than that provided for by law. And more than that, I would also like to say to my colleagues that I am very sorry that, in preparing for the second reading, the committee has included in this law the "Final Positions" to amend a number of other laws that have nothing to do with the Constitutional Court and which will create problems in the adoption of this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u64	Thank you. Please put to the vote the amendment of the Odarchenka People's Deputies, we vote with respect. [[B in m in s a l in]] Krulka, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. We're preparing to, excuse me, adopt the law of this. Come on, 49 amendments to the Krulka People's Deputy. [[11:01:47]] For 113 113 national deputies were not supported. Let's move on, dear fellows. 50th, Chizmar. Don't insist. 51st, Chizmar. Don't insist. 54th, Murray. Don't insist. 55th, Vlasenko. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u65	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chairman. This amendment is technical. And in the situation where we're saying that there's an opportunity in the courtroom to set up the State Herb and the State Flag, you might want to make it clear that any. use any other attributes and symbols you may not use. Because we know what's going on, what's going on, when it's even happening in the Supreme Council. So I think we could complement this article with a ban on using any other symbol in the session hall of the Constitutional Court other than the State Herb of Ukraine and the State Flag. Perhaps someone does not want this in order to be able to present symbols of other States in the territory of the Constitutional Court and in the Chamber of the Constitutional Court. I think it would have to be limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u66	Please, Your Honor, we vote in favour of the 55th amendment of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko. Please be supportive. [[11:03:25]] For-99 Correction not supported. We're moving on. If you have such a point, raise your hand. Please, 56th National MP of Sphenov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the amendment is aimed at avoiding improper formulation. The State Herb of Ukraine and the State Flag of Ukraine are state symbols and cannot be defined as attributes. Let us respect our nation. And I ask the room to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u68	Thank you. Please put to the vote the amendment of 56 People’s Deputies of Sphenov. [[11:04:16]] Z-71 Please move on. 71 votes, not supported. Shoemaker, 57th. Don't insist. Welcome home, 58th. Don't insist. Odarchenko, '60s. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u69	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Mr. Ruslan, well, you've struggled for many years to be honest and just. It is related to the need for all citizens and the media to have access to the matter. But by this law you limit it. We all fought for the openness of the courts when the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges was passed, and the key issue was the ability of citizens to come freely to open meetings, write them down and film them. But this law simply brings us back, Mr. Ruslan, to the time of Kuchma. It's a disgrace! The court itself will determine who is to be put in session and who is not to be released, and it will be completely free in its decision. I propose to set the same rules as for the courts of general jurisdiction: all may be present for vacancies. It is a disgrace that the committee supports, restricts the access of the media and citizens to the roses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u70	Please, the head of the Replica Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u71	I want to say on behalf of the committee that your amendment narrows down the possibility of access. You're only suggesting that if there's free space. Believe me, they will never be molded. And the committee thinks that there are seats or no seats, they should have the right to be in court. Please don't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u72	Please put to the vote 60 amendments to the Odarchenka People's Deputies. [[11:06:19]] For-57 57 deputies, not supported. 61st, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 62nd, Vlasenko. 61st. I just didn't see you. Please, Vlasenko insists on any amendments. 61st, please, Mr. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u73	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to support my colleague Yuri Odarchenk, a single partyman, and point out that my amendment 61 is also aimed at making the Constitutional Court hearings as open as possible. By the way, this is going to apply to 62 amendments that we're going to talk about separately. But I spoke at the beginning of the presentation of my amendments that this law makes the Constitutional Court a completely closed institution. It is not enough that, today, like Parliament, 99 percent of decisions are taken by the expedited procedure, by the reduced procedure, and by the Constitutional Court, probably 90 percent of their decisions are taken in writing with a small open section, not allowing society to observe work, to observe the work of the Constitutional Court, not allowing anyone into the mystery of the decision-making process. So they make the Constitutional Court a completely closed institution. So 61 amendments are meant to be from.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u74	Please put to the vote the amendment of National MP Vlasenka 61. [[11:07:59]] Z-85 85 deputies. Not supported. Please again microphone to the National MP Vlasenek for 62 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u75	Thank you, colleagues. What was established during the second reading of this law? This law has established that video, photo and audio-fixing, not even stationary equipment, but simply tape recorder, is carried out in the Constitutional Court only in the order established by the Rules of the Constitutional Court, which is adopted by the Constitutional Court itself. So tomorrow, the same judges who restored the Constitution for Yanukovich will write to you tomorrow in the Rules that you can use the recorder for audio only if you write to them in writing 10 days before the trial. So this rule is totally discriminatory, it deprives participants of the ability to conduct audio and video fixation, journalists of the ability to perform audio and video fixation, well, more faithfully, it does not take away, but allows the Constitutional Court, in the Rules, to set such restrictions. To do that, you just have to support amendment 62. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u76	Please put to the vote Amendment 62, National Deputy Vlasenko. Please vote. This is the Presidency's pressure on the rostrum. [[11:09:26]] For 116 Let's move on. 116 national deputies supported the national deputy Vlasenko. 63 amendment, People's Deputy Odarchenka. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u77	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Mr. Ruslan, you're completely insincere when you say that access to court is extended. I'm surprised at the position of the drafters. Instead of allowing access to justice, we want to make the Constitutional Court a secret body. Read the first reading: Record on video, record on audio and broadcast court meetings can only be done in the order determined by the court itself. Since 2014, we have passed more than ten laws on media access to authorities, and we are now rejecting ourselves decades ago, in Soviet times. I request that the law establish the right to freely record open court hearings at a sitting. Mr. Ruslan, this is a very strange transformation. Since 2004, you have become a democracy advocate, a person who is a retrograde, and today narrows down the rights of the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u78	The chairman of the committee insists on commenting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u79	Since I was personally accused, I just want to explain to the National MP what this is about. The point is that the order of accreditation and, accordingly, the use of technology should be provided for by the Rules. And the National MP Vlasenko suggests simply to write: "The Regulation. the procedure for accreditation and the activities of the media should be defined by the Rules." That's what you're talking about, not what you're saying. There must be a document that determines the order of accreditation and, accordingly, the work of the media. He's in Parliament, I'll tell you a secret, and he's in any government body. Without it, the media cannot exercise their authority. This is what you're talking about, not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u80	Please put to the vote the amendment of People's Deputy Odarchenka, number 63. Please be supportive. [[11:11:58]] Z-87 87 votes for. It's not coming through. 64th. National MP Chumak. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for confirmation of amendment 64. I insist, as I believe, that in the paper presented, the 6th article in this case, in the paper as it is, the more clearly defined order of the court's work on accreditation and the media, the disclosure of the court's activities, the presence of citizens and so on. I would like to say that this reduces the possibility of discrediting the court itself with regard to the admission of citizens to court halls and the holding of hearings at all sessions, including the sittings of chambers and the sitting of the Senate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u82	Let's vote on the amendment of the Chumak 64 People's Deputy. [[11:13:04]] For 113 No correction supported. 65th, Novak. Don't insist. Tymoshenko Yuri, 67th. Don't insist. Murayev, 68th. Don't insist. Murrayev, 69th doesn't insist. Murayev, '70s. Don't insist. Janicki, 71st. Don't insist. Melnik, 72nd. Don't insist. Janicki, 73rd. Don't insist. Sphinx. He insists. Please, the microphone. 75 amendment, People's MP Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u83	Respectable colleagues, if the act has lost its force, how can it be applied? The wording opens the Pandora box because any legal consequences that have arisen under laws that have become obsolete may be appealed in such wording. For example, the property acquired as a result of privatization. Please support my amendment and explain why it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u84	Please, National MP Spinov 75 requests the amendment for confirmation. Brief comment by the chairman of the committee. I see you insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u85	I want to say that this is exactly the position of our partners in the Venice Commission. And the point is that really in those countries where there is a constitutional complaint, there is an opportunity to question the constitutionality of an act that is no longer in effect, and on the basis of which were some judicial decisions that have gained legal power. Consider, for example, the Criminal Code, in some form in a year, has ceased to work, and a person still remains in places where he has been deprived of his will by obtaining a sentence based on a procedural law, such as that declared unconstitutional. And that's why we need to try this practice, as it is for me, absolutely fair in our territories to implement it gradually. And we're going to see what we're going to get out of, and I'm really looking forward to the success of this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u86	Please, 75 revisions. Vote, please make up your mind. [[11:15:09]] For-44 No correction supported. Next, Solvar, 76. Don't insist. Scissor, 77th. Don't insist. Eutusek insists. Please, Evtushka's microphone. 78 Amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u87	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, what should we do when this bill is passed? Of course, to restore trust in an institution such as the Constitutional Court. But I have the impression that, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, which is beyond your attention, the attention of the members of your committee remains the fact that more than six judges for today's Constitutional Court remain those who voted and returned the usurped power of Yanukovich. What's more, you're not just putting them on financial security, you're still offering them a safe pension under the law. That's why I'm asking you to consider this story. And Article 8 of Part Two, please delete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u88	I just want us to be able to accept it today. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u89	I want to say that article 8, in general, is about something else. I mean, let's just think about what we're voting for. As far as those judges you said were concerned, they made a decision in 2010. There are four judges left. Two of them are out of office a month later. The other two are a few months away. So be careful. And this law just makes it possible to accelerate their fate. Read this law, it opens up all possibilities. As for this amendment, please don't support it. I was just commenting on her during a comment on Sphenov's amendment. It's similar to the content.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u90	Please vote on Amendment 78 of the national deputy Eutushka. [[11:17:07]] For-58 Correction not supported. Let's move on. 79th, Pisarenko doesn't insist. 80th, Odarchenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u91	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this is a technical question. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine accepts constitutional complaints only after the completion of the case before the courts of general jurisdiction. This could take a few years. It is common that the law applied in the court’s decision has long been repealed by the Supreme Council and the possibility of filing a complaint. But the decision was made on his basis. Dear colleagues, it is necessary to guarantee that a complaint can be lodged in connection with the application of unconstitutional law by the court, even if it has already become invalid and the court’s decision has been executed. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u92	Let's put this amendment to the vote. Please determine about 80 revisions. [[11:18:22]] Z-70. Correction not supported. If the chairman of the committee has not commented on an amendment, you will be able to sum up the consideration of the bill at the end, your honorary colleague. 81st National MP Rosenblatt. Don't insist. 82nd National Deputy Janicki. Don't insist. 83rd, Murray. Don't insist. 84th, Murray. Don't insist. 85th, Melnik. Don't insist. 86th, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 87th, Melnik. Don't insist. 88th, Welcome. Don't insist. 89th, Murray. Sorry, Welcome insists. 88th. Please, microphone of the People's Deputies of Dobrodomov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u93	Dmitri Dobrodomov, People's Control. In the Committee, the court is competent if 12 of its 18 members are appointed. That is, we understand that three subjects of the President's application, a meeting of judges, and the Supreme Council are six people. In such a case, six persons may be appointed by the President, judges will be appointed from the meeting, and the Supreme Council may not be able to do so at some point. In order to maintain balance and the principle of parity in the work of the Constitutional Court, there is a suggestion that among these 12 members should be assigned at least 3 judges to each appointment, that is, from the Supreme Council, from the President, and from the meeting of judges. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u94	Let's put this amendment 88 to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:16]] For-72 Not supported. Let's move on. 89th, Murray. Don't insist. The '90s. Please turn on the Vlasenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u95	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, we're offered, I repeat it a million times, we're offered to preserve the Constitutional Court by this law. We are offered completely inconclusive criteria as to who might be the judge of the Constitutional Court. This formula, which can be used by a judge of the Constitutional Court as a lawyer with a recognized level of competence, has already been used in the election of the Supreme Council of Members of the High Council of Justice when appointed to the High Council of Justice by some boys who didn't even carry a wallet behind the Ivyenke, but who wore a briefcase for those who wore a wallet behind the Ivyenke, calling them recognized professionals in the field of law. I propose to extend the list of criteria and restrictions on those candidates who may or may not be judges of the Constitutional Court, and to point out, in particular, that a judge of the Constitutional Court may not be a person who is supposed to be involved in criminal responsibility for corruption, as well as a number of other criteria. So I'm asking you to support this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u96	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u97	I'd like to say to the honorary colleague that it's not a committee or a law-abiding body. This formulation became part of the Constitution of Ukraine in October 2016. And for that, you have a special thanks, the Fatherland faction, for supporting these constitutional changes and for this correct formula, as for me, from now on, we will apply not only to judges, but also to all the lawyers of Ukraine. Thank you for supporting constitutional change.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u98	Let's put on the definition of the Hall the amendment of the People's MP Vlasenko, number 90. Please vote, be determined. [[11:22:28]] For-86 Not supported. Let's move on. 91st, Yuri Timoshenko. Don't insist. Sphinx, 94th. Don't insist. Salvar, 99th. Don't insist. Krulko, 100th. Please, Krulke's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u99	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, consider what is written in part three of article 11. That a judge of the Constitutional Court cannot belong to political parties or professional associations is the right thing to do. But next, show affection for them. To my conviction, showing affection is very subjective in its practical application. Because a judge, as a Ukrainian citizen, has the right to vote and can be viewed in some context as a proponent of a political power. So I'm going to suggest that we put away this subjective category of affection for anything. And once again, I call attention to the honourable chairman of the committee, and the entire committee, remove from this law any reference to amending other laws that have nothing to do with the Constitutional Court. This is the Notaryate Act, this is the Judicial Act and the Status of Judges, this is a number of other laws, the Criminal Enforcement Code. What does this have to do with the Constitutional Court? Clean up all the loose ends, and support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u100	Let's put to the vote 100 of the amendment of the Krulka People's Deputy. [[11:24:06]] For-74. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Yuri Timoshenko, this amendment has not been supported, who has not heard us announce its 91 - year amendment, demands that we return to it. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u101	Mr. Ruslan, please tell me what's wrong with having a judge of the Constitutional Court in Ukraine for the last five years? Even a Chinese person can be taught, for example, to speak English. Can we finally stop this situation by assigning some of the highest positions of any mate who appeared unknown from where on the last day before the appointment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u102	Please, 91 amendments are defined. [[11:25:15]] For-78 78, let's move on. We're moving on to the amendments, dear colleagues. 104th, Katzer-Bukchovska. Don't insist. Chumak, 106th. Don't insist. Novak, 107th. Don't insist. Miller 108th, I'm sorry. Don't insist. Sphinx. Sphenov insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! First of all, it's as if they missed my amendment number 101, which is also rejected. I would like to say first of all that to support a colleague who spoke from Fatherland, who is committed to political parties, is exceptional. exclusive subjective positions that may lead to corruption. Similarly, the Venice Commission had clearly made recommendations in its opinion that it had suggested that it should not use evaluation concepts. With regard to Amendment 109, which had been rejected, the additional and excessively harsh rules of political neutrality, which had also been criticised by the Venice Commission, had been set aside. Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u104	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u105	I want to tell the honourable MP that we rejected your amendment not because we disagree with that approach. We simply wrote out a new edition, where we were cleared, as we were, of the discriminatory standards that the Venice Commission was paying attention to. It is two years in line with the date of the assignment, some of the limitations foreseen in the first reading. We've cleared this line, and if you look at the right column, you'll see that the language goes now: at the moment of destination. So we took away the possibility of retrospect restrictions, as the Venice Commission clearly pointed out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u106	Please place 109 amendments on the definition of the room. [[11:27:25]] For-52 It's not supported by the hall. Let's move on. National MP Vlasenko, 110 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyrno. My amendment proposes to remedy the situation that is in the final wording of those restrictions that apply to the candidate, in fact, in the Constitutional Court, because this rule speaks of who cannot be the judge of the Constitutional Court. In particular, a judge of the Constitutional Court, according to the Committee, cannot be a person who participates in. On the day of his appointment participates in the organization or financing of political agitation or other political activities. What is "a person on the day of appointment participates in the organization or financing of political agitation or other political activities" – it is not clear, it is a broad criterion that can be interpreted either on the one hand or on the other. Thus, it is possible to artificially restrict people to the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. So I proposed a different edition of this rule, and I propose to support amendment 110.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u108	Let's put the 110 Vlasenka amendment on the definition of the hall. [[11:28:58]] For-72 Next amendment. This isn't a supported hall. 111th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 112th Janicki. Don't insist. 113th, Krulko. Please, Krulko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u109	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, this is where I'd like to say that if the secretariat wrote editorially that all these amendments were taken into account, there would be no questions. In fact, the committee corrected the error of two years before the judge could not be a member of the political party before becoming a judge. How does he know he'll be someone or not in two years? So it's absolutely right that this was practiced, but it should have been shown in the table accordingly that these amendments are counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u110	113 amendment, Krulko. He doesn't insist on voting. Colleagues, if we go at this rate, we're going to finish this law by the end of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm asking those who insist very hard on the amendments so that we can get to the other amendments. I appeal to the deputies, to their goodwill, Mr. Victor. I'm going to the right place. Next, 114th, Eutusek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u111	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I am surprised when Timoshenko’s amendment is not supported by the fact that a candidate for the Constitutional Court would have to live for five years in Ukraine, but we see other additional, such as, for example, the requirements for persons to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court that are not provided for by the Constitution. So I'd like an amendment of 114 to support, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u112	Thank you. Those who support the amendment of 114 people, deputy Eutuszek, rejected it, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:31:06]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 115th, Chumak. 116th, Germany. 117th, Anointed. Who? Germany, 116th. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u113	Germany, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, look at this article, from the beginning and to the end, it is discriminatory against citizens who can claim or apply to a judge. What is it when I'm going to, read, it's a smile, not a norm. I'd like to talk to the authors who are bringing this standard in the first place. This will be a mockery of all Ukraine and Europe. Look, it's written: she was a candidate for representativeship. for election to a representative body. So, what was it? Is it murder or crime? How can this be amended? Then correct, then correct, please, and there. You can't mess with people like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u114	Please, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u115	Who supports the 116th amendment of the German People's Deputy, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[11:32:38]] For-72 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u116	Please, 117, Anointed. Don't insist. 118th, Rosenblatt. Don't insist. 119th, Novak. Don't insist. 120th, Vlasenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u117	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, in fact, the institution of political impartiality, in fact, the committee corrected its error -- and cleaned up two years before that, but the institution of political impartiality should work after the judge of the Constitutional Court has retired. As it happens, in principle, throughout the world, that a period of time after the execution of the powers of the Constitutional Court Judge cannot return, either join, or engage in political activities. Then it is proposed that a three - year period should be set for a period of three years after the completion of his duties to the judge of the Constitutional Court. This is perfectly normal and totally acceptable. And this will certainly guarantee the principle of political impartiality. It's not that a judge of nine years of cadence is going to be involved in a hidden political activity, it's only going to retire, he's going to join the political party, and he's actually going to continue his political activity. I think it should be limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u118	We're going to be appointed honorary colleagues. Amendment 120, People's Deputy Vlasenko. [[11:34:19]] For-90 It's not supported by the hall. Please move on. 121th, Murray. Don't insist. 122nd, Krulko. Don't insist. 123rd, Vlasenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u119	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. The only thing that's causing me is, you know, a certain dissonance of the norm that the committee formulated. Well, in particular, the committee forbade the Constitutional Court judge to participate in the work of professional, legal self-government bodies, but, in addition, allowed them to accept, to be in the governing bodies of those who profit, more loyal, who do not receive income, which is little such absurdity. I propose to prohibit the judges of the Constitutional Court, to stop these practices of parallel work, parallel representations of the judges of the Constitutional Court, to ban them from participating in the governing bodies of any legal person, including those who are not seeking profit, if we are already forbidding them to work, particularly in the organs of legal self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u120	Please place amendment 120 of the National MP on the hall definition. 123 people's MP Vlasenko. Please make up your mind. 123 is an amendment. [[11:35:59]] For-54 No room support. Let's move on. 124th, Welcome. Don't insist. 125th, Chumak. Don't insist. 127th, Novak. Don't insist. 130th Sobolev Yegor. Don't insist. 131st, Chumak. Don't insist. 132nd, Novak. Don't insist. Shoemaker, 133rd. Don't insist. Anointed, 134th. Don't insist. Alexiev, 135th. Don't insist. Murayev, 136th. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 137th. He insists on being firm. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u121	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Amendment 137 is more clearly governed by the procedure for competitive selection of judges. a candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court, in particular a clear one. Clear criteria for the commission, its composition and so on, and one committee is set up to select all candidates. We don't need a commission with the President that he'll form from. From Mr. Filatov, who has already usurped his influence on the judicial branch of power, or from other loyal to the powdery people who have a legal degree and tell everyone that they are independent lawyers with a recognized professional reputation. Therefore, the standard proposed by the committee strengthens the mechanisms of external influence on the formation of the candidate composition of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u122	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u123	Since the committee is again being accused, I want to explain the session room. The point is that the Council of Judicial Reform originally proposed one single commission for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court. But after this bill had been considered by the Venice Commission, the Venice Commission made it absolutely clear that a meeting of judges was a separate institution that could not benefit from the results of an election and some kind of contribution. He himself should determine his own order for the selection of such judges. And then the dilemma was whether to leave two committees: one for the President and the Parliament, and one for the judges, or one for the judges, because they have constitutional equality of subjects, to anticipate and leave three commissions. That is why three committees came into existence. This is the recommendation of our European partners, not the committee. Please pay attention and read more clearly the conclusions of the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u124	Please be determined as to the amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenko, 137th. Please, colleagues. [[11:38:47]] For-56 Let's move on. This amendment did not receive a vote. 138th, Murray. 139th, Murray. Don't insist. 140th, Murray. Don't insist. 141th. Muraiev doesn't insist. Krulko, 142nd. Don't insist. Alekseyev, 143rd. Don't insist. Palamarchuk, 144th. Don't insist. Melnik, 145th. Don't insist. Odarchenko, 146th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u125	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, the formation of competitive commissions is a guarantee of the unbiased election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And here it has to be absolutely clear. Article 12 is now unclear as to the composition of the competitive commission. It's written that the commission should have at least one representative of the faction, but it's not clear whether it's from each faction or quite one of any faction. So I suggest you write that the commission is one representative from each faction, so that we can guarantee participation in the selection of the judges of the Constitutional Court by the representatives of all parties. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u126	Please place an amendment to the Odarchenka People's Deputies Hall. This is Amendment 146. Please make up your mind. [[11:40:25]] For-54 No correction supported. Please, microphone to the National MP Vlasenko. Amendment number 147.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u127	You know, I read very carefully the conclusions of the Venice Commission. But I would urge the committee head not to speculate on the conclusions of the Venice Commission. Because, you know, we're using, we're using conclusions, more faithfully, some are using the conclusions of the Venice Commission that they're comfortable with. They're using them. And those who are not comfortable do not use them. This is the first time. Secondly, the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which we highly esteem as an advisory body, are very important and we respect them. But sometimes Ukrainian realities run counter to all the conclusions of the Venice Commission. And my amendment 147 refers to the more clear criteria for the formation of candidates for the selection of candidates for the Constitutional Court. In particular, I propose not to include in the commission those who have been drawn to criminal responsibility for corruption and those who fall under illustrative procedures. Please be supportive. But once again, I point out that the whole law is formulated in such a way that the Constitutional Court becomes more guided and more manual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u128	Let's put to the vote the amendment of 147 people's deputies Vlasenka. Please identify yourself. [[11:41:56]] For-92 No support. Let's move on. 148th, Sphen's. Please, it's Sphen's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u129	Thank you, Irina Vladimirovna, for your word. Regarding this amendment. It's conceptual and I insist on it. It seeks to implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission and to establish clear professional qualifications requirements for a member of the judicial selection commission and the principles of the commission itself. The criterion, such as a lawyer with a recognized level of competence, is too appreciable a concept that may lead to abuse. I therefore propose clear criteria for education, apprenticeship and experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u130	Please place 148 of Sphenov's amendment on the definition of the room. The head of the committee recommends reading the Constitution to all. Let's hear it, Your Honor. [[11:42:53]] For-52 Correction not supported. Let's move on. 149th People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. 150th, Murray. Don't insist. 151st, Misick. Don't insist. A bird. Please, 152nd National Deputy Pteshnik. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u131	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected by a competitive commission. My amendment refers to the transparency of the work of the members of the competition commission, for it foresees who cannot be members of the competition commission. In particular, I would suggest that this is, for example, a person who has been subjected to administrative incursions over the past five years for a corruption - related offence, or who cannot be a member of a competitive commission, a person who has previously been dismissed from the position of judge for a violation of the obligation to confirm the legality of the origin of his property, and such adjustments. I believe that in order to ensure a transparent selection of the judges of the Constitutional Court, we need to provide for these requirements for the members of the competitive commission that will influence the selection. So I ask you to support this amendment and Mr. Ruslan Petrovich to comment on why it was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u132	Let's put on the hall definition the amendment of 152 People's Deputies of Ptashnik. Please place this amendment on the premises for confirmation. The committee rejected it – this is Ruslan Petrovich's position as honorary and committee. [[11:44:27]] For-72 You see, the hall supported the committee's decision, Mr. Ruslan. And we're moving on. 153 amendment, People's Deputy Chižmar. Don't insist. Murrayev, 154th. Don't insist. Murrayev, 155th. Don't insist. 156th, Katzer-Buchkowska Natalia. Don't insist. 157th, Janicki. Don't insist. 158th, Murray. Don't insist. 159th. People's MP Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u133	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I propose to strengthen the procedure for selecting candidates and evaluating candidates to the Constitutional Court through a special examination to be carried out by anti-corruption bodies on the basis of the declarations made by these entities and to establish a clear obligation to carry out such a verification, to regulate the time frame for carrying out such checks and to obtain a clear understanding that no candidate will pass an anti-corruption check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u134	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u135	I just want to say that this issue is resolved in the Anti-Corruption Act: any person who claims to take office, including the Constitutional Court judge, is undergoing a special examination, part of which is a test of compliance with the prohibitions provided for in the Law on the Cleaning of Power. There's no problem here, we just didn't want to overload this law with the rules that are already defined in other laws, because then it would have to be in all categories and civil servants, and people compared to them in special laws to provide for anti-corruption laws, and that's not done because that's what the session room decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u136	Let's put 159 amendments on the definition of the hall. [[11:46:35]] For-76 Not supported. Let's move on. 160th, Murray. Don't insist. 162nd. Muraev. Don't insist. 163th, Murray. Don't insist. Odarchenko insists. 164th. Microphone, please, People's Deputy Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u137	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, it's not a competition at all, it's a parody of a competition that doesn't allow honest selection of judges. We don't know who the commission was formed from. We don't know what criteria the interview is based on, and we don't know who the candidates are. To my conviction, this is done consciously to pressure the judges of the Constitutional Court to make the decisions that the President and the majority of them now need. Now a lot of MPs from Peter Dustenk's Block have asked the Constitutional Court to remove the moratorium on the sale of land. I'm convinced that this method of forming competitive commissions is aimed at pressure to pressure the judges of the Constitutional Court to abolish the moratorium in their decision. I ask you to accept my amendment, which allows you to consider an impartial, honest one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u138	Please proceed to the definition of room 164 of the Odarchenka amendment. [[11:48:13]] For-50 Not supported. Please turn on the Vlasenka microphone, 165 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. My amendment to one simple thing is that this law actually makes the Constitutional Court completely closed, absolutely not a transparent institution. I suggest that the results, the results of the examination of the documents provided by the candidates, become public, and be made public on the website of the Constitutional Court, so that society can see who went through the interview, who didn't go through the interview. This is the same situation that we now have during the Supreme Court competition, when all actions are reflected on the relevant site of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. It's going to contribute to the openness of the selection of candidates and I don't see any problems here, absolutely, no ideological problems, this question, I think, is technical. But, I see, the head of the committee is pulling his hand to say no, we need to close the court, and we need to have a completely opaque procedure. And I have the impression that the chairman of the committee supports the closure of the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u140	A reply from the chairman of a committee that does not explicitly agree with either the amendment or the charges brought.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u141	The point is that we rejected your appeal to one commission, if there was one commission, your logic about publishing its conclusions and decisions on the court website was supported. Since there are now three committees, we have foreseen that all conclusions and decisions will be published on the website of the Parliament, the President, and the Council of Judges, which acts on behalf of the meeting of judges during the period between her work. So let's keep this logic going until we finish our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u142	Thank you for the excellent explanations. And we put an amendment to the vote on the definition of the hall. Yes, it is suggested that fine explanations are made for a fine correction. [[11:50:19.]] Z-71 71 deputies supported her. Thus, the correction is not very beautiful. Let's move on. 166th, Misik. Missik, the National MP, doesn't insist. 167th, Chizmar. Don't insist. 168 amendment of the Krulka People's Deputy. Don't insist. 169th, Misick. Don't insist. Bird, please 170 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, this amendment is again relevant to the work of the Competition Commission and provides additional guarantees for the work of the Competition Commission, which will take an important part. The role in the formation of the Constitutional Court. In particular, my amendment foresees that competitive board meetings should be open to media representatives, subject to video and audio-fixing. My amendment also foresees how the commission will make a decision and what quorum is needed for the commission to make decisions. And perhaps the drafters of the bill and actually the members of the committee, rejecting the amendment, thought it might be possible to establish it at the level of legal regulations. But I think to ensure that the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court is democratic and transparent, it would be desirable to establish this at the level of law. So I ask you to support the amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u144	The committee head's trailer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u145	Since Ms. Victoria said that the authors of the bill disagreed with her logic, they support another vision. So I'm going to say that among the drafters of the bill are the Birds of Victoria Yuriovna, who was probably also involved in this part. And that's why I wouldn't ask the committee to blame, because you blame the committee all the time, it's the authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u146	We don't have a replica, because that's how we're going to be discussing the bill for three days. Please place 170 amendments on the definition of the room. 170 amendments to one of the drafters of the bill, Mrs. Ptashnik. [[11:52:31]] Z-71 Not supported. Let's move on. 171th, Murray. Don't insist. 172th, Chumak. Don't insist. 173rd, Novak. Don't insist. Anointed, 174th. Don't insist. I can't see, at least. 175th, Welcome. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u147	Dmitri Dobrodomov, People's Control. In fact, this amendment applies to the system of three competitive commissions, well, from each subject. Well, first of all, there's no procedure for conducting these competitive selections, and that allows you to regulate them yourself by the subjects of the appointment, well, of course, under yourself. And that's a lot of risk. For example, if one candidate finds himself on both the presidential and the judicial lists, one will be approved in another negative. How can we act on this issue? It mentioned the findings of the Venice Commission, which pointed to the need to improve the position on the competition. So there is a proposal to create one competitive commission that will operate on a permanent basis. On that competitive committee, each subject of three would be delegated by six representatives. And that's how we would solve this question. I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u148	Please, Hall, please vote for the 175th amendment, be determined. [[11:54:16]] For-79 No support. 176th, Alexiev. Don't insist. Oh, he insists. I'm sorry. Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u149	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Igor Alexeyev, People's Front faction. I want to acknowledge that one of the key money in this bill is the formation of a judicial corps of judges of the Constitutional Court on competitive grounds. Competitive competition committees are envisaged. That's right, and in general, we support that concept. At the same time, many provisions regarding the functioning of a competitive commission, its formation, the requirements for the personal composition of these commissions remain unregulated and, in the end, this may lead to abuse in the formation of a personal composition, that's the first. Second, there may be risks of accusing competitive procedures by candidates who are appointed to the respective posts. My amendment 176 deals with these issues right now and I ask you to ask it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u150	Let's put 176 amendments to the House of People's Deputies, Alexeyev. [[11:55:44]] For 111 He doesn't get the required number of votes. 177th, Welcome. Don't insist. 178th. Welcome microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u151	Dmitri Dobrodomov, People's Control. This amendment determines the order in which a qualified examination is to be conducted, which is where it should be systematized. So it's a written three-hour test, a zero-to-100 score. If less, the applicant does not get 75 points, the person still does not pass. So that's the clearness of the qualification test criteria. I find this amendment important, please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u152	Please place 178 amendments on the definition of the hall, your honors. [[11:56:41]] For-81
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u153	The decision is not taken. 179th, Welcome. Don't insist. 180th. Don't insist. 181, Chumak. Don't insist. 182nd, Novak. Don't insist. 183rd Janicki. Don't insist. 191st, Chumak. Don't insist. 192nd, Novak. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 185th Knazevitch. Please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What does 185 amendment offer us? The original edition of this bill suggested that the competitive selection of the Supreme Council candidate. More loyally, the selection of a candidate of the Supreme Council, well, first of all, takes place on competitive grounds, once, and appoints a judge of the Constitutional Court to office by secret balloting by filing ballots. Instead, we find that the order of appointment of the Constitutional Court judge is established by the Supreme Council Rules. I believe that two important criteria, such as competition and balloting, should remain in the body of this law. And then I'd like to ask you to submit 185 copies of the decree to a number of national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u155	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u156	Well, first of all, that's why we made the rule of law. Because it is in the Law on the Rules that the procedure must now be laid down, the order for the judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected by the quota of the Parliament. It's not a big deal if there's a brownish norm. Now for the voting order. Dear colleagues. Because there's already been a discussion around the Commissioner, there's not even a committee head here, and everyone else. I'll just explain the logic. At one time, the Rules of the Supreme Council, when it was even a provisional Rules, then simply the Rules and was not the Law, contained a rule where all, without exception the institutions and officials appointed by the Ukrainian Parliament, were appointed or chosen by secret ballots. But on July 11, 2012, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its consideration of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council -- and such an official had also previously chosen ballot papers -- stated that, according to the Constitution, any decisions of the Parliament could be made openly and only in the walls where Parliament was sitting: in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then we started removing one from this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u157	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u158	Starting with the Head of the Supreme Council, the members of the Central Electoral Commission, the Court of Auditors, the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, recently the Supreme Council of Justice, we now have to do so with the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court to hold the election of the judge of the Constitutional Court. And there's only one institution left that's appropriate. It's a Human Rights Commissioner who stays if we're cleaning up the Constitutional Court. And if we want to leave a norm there that is unconstitutional, we continue to choose it in the same order, deliberately establishing a norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u159	Colleagues, so the committee is asking to support this amendment, and I'm asking you to mobilize, take up jobs. Colleagues, the committee requests that this amendment be supported. The owner doesn't even have confirmation. So I'm betting on confirmation of the 185, and the committee's asking us all in the room to support it. Please vote. Please support the 185th revision. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:00:34]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. 193, Welcome. Don't insist. 194th, Odarchenko. Colleagues, this is going to be the last correction before the break. Then there'll be a 30-minute break. Please, Odarchenko, 194.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u160	The Fatherland faction, Yuri Odarchenko. Dear colleagues, this is quite a technical exercise. The right thing to do is to create a system by which we will choose a new judge before the decision is completed. Thus, the moment the acting judge is released, the new judge will take office and ensure the continuity of the work of the court. It's a similar system, and it's my turn. I'm asking you to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u161	So I'm voting for the 194th People's Deputy Odarchenko. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee's against it. [[12:01:43]] For-53 The decision is not made. So, dear colleagues, the next 195 issue will be after the break. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. I want to remind you that today is going to be the day-to-day session of the bill, which foresees the elimination of this break, and I am very much asking everyone to support today's inclusion in the day-to-day order of this law. And now there's a break until 12:30. At 12:30, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u162	Colleagues, break time is over. Let's go to the next line. The next amendment was 195th Krulka. He insists on speaking. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u163	Ivan Krulko, faction of Fatherland. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues, I especially address the head of the committee. Note what is written in part four of this article. The point here is that the Head of the Supreme Council signs the Supreme Council’s decision on the appointment. That's how he signs, the Supreme Council's rulings are signed by the Head. This formulation, which is proposed in my amendment, is more correct in terms of defining a specific document that judges are assigned to. That is, the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court is approved by a decree of the Supreme Council. So I ask the committee to take this amendment into account, because it is logical and more correct in terms of the legislative technique and the document adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u164	Please, Mr. Ruslan, protect the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u165	I want to say very briefly to the National MP that if you look at the 196 amendment, you'll just see that the committee has taken into account the deletion of this standard. But just voted 185, the amendment actually nullifies the logic of the law in this part. In fact, you voted on the rule that stipulated the procedure for holding the competition. Now there will be no competition for the Supreme Council, and that's true. And you don't have to change the concept here right now. There is no problem with the decision and there is no problem for the Head of the Supreme Council because this is provided for by the Law on the Rules. Both the Constitution and the Law of the Rules will be clearly implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u166	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. John? We don't insist. 202, Welcome doesn't insist. 204, Odarchenka. 204th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u167	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, it is quite difficult to meet judges in an organizational manner. He's been preparing for months. So I propose that the judges' election may take place before the vacancy arises. In order for the newly elected judge to take office as soon as the term of office of the acting judge is reached. So we're minimizing the risk of a situation like a few years ago when the court was working on the legitimacy line and had six vacancies. Dear colleagues! Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u168	I'm putting the vote to 204 people's deputies, Odarchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:38:06]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 207th, Katzer-Buchkowska doesn't insist. 209, Odarchenko doesn't insist. He insists. 211? 209, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u169	Yuri Odarchenko. Dear colleagues! Part two of article 16 of the bill is completely unconstitutional. Article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine defined the term of office of a judge for nine years without the right to reappoint. And you write in article 16 that it can be extended for another three months. Colleagues, paragraph 1 of the first part of Article 149-1 indicates that a judge's mandate is terminated when his terms of office are terminated automatically, without the decision being taken by any authority. Therefore, no extension of authority is simply impossible! Please delete this norm. The issue of court vacancies should be resolved by early competitions rather than by the unconstitutional extension of the powers of active courts. We don't have a Central Electoral Commission that's been running without authority for three years. You are repeating a similar error.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u170	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 209 People's Deputies of Odarchenka. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:39:43]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 215th, Rosenblatt. Do Not Urge 216th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 216 insists, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u171	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich, I insist on all my amendments, and then I ask you to give me your word when my amendment is made. It's just that I told Irina Volodymyrna about it and I'm informing you. Thank you. Thank you. No, I'm just informing you. Dear colleagues, in fact, have offered us some kind of corrupt mechanism that will happen if the competitive committee, during the vote, gives the same number of votes to the candidate. We're offered, you know, according to tradition in the Supreme Council, and let's vote, and then let's vote again. I propose another objective criterion: If the judge has obtained the same number of votes on the competition committee, the winner is considered to have received more points from the written exam. This is a perfectly normal, completely objective criterion that will not need a candidate after an equal vote to seek support and so on and so forth. So please support, it's technical, it's actually, from the point of view of ideology, it doesn't change the ideologies of this law, but at least it will correct, it will remove certain corruptogenic risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u172	If I support the amendment of 216 People's Deputies of Vlasenko, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[12:41:17]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 218th, Krulko. He insists. 210th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u173	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like, first of all, to support my colleague Yuri Odarchenk, who has quite rightly pointed out that the Constitution of Ukraine, whose standards have direct effect, provides that the judges of the Constitutional Court, the powers of the judge of the Constitutional Court, shall cease at the end of his term of office or at the end of 70 years. Therefore, there can be no exceptions to constitutional norms in any law, since they can only be defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. So I propose to support my amendment and to clear the second part of article 16, according to which the Constitutional Court judge continues to be in office until the date of appointment of the new judge, but no more than three months, this rule is unconstitutional. I ask the House and the National Deputies to support the amendment and exclude the unconstitutional norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u174	Please. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I'd like us, when we comment, not to change the words of those written in the first reading. The point is that you say he can't exercise authority if he's out of time. I agree with you that he can't exercise authority, but he can. That is, he can not only be a proper judge and exercise justice, but he is in office at the time of the competition to prepare the ground for the competition, since the law states that there must be an appropriate court decision. Let us read clearly what is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u176	Thank you. So whoever supports the amendment of 210 National Deputy Krulka, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[12:43:19]] For-35 The decision is not made. 218th. You insist, too, don't you? Please, Krulko, 218th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important amendment that will continue to be found in the text, and I'm asking the committee to comment. What am I offering? I propose that the formation of an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court be held at a solemn rather than a special session of the Constitutional Court. Why? Because the Constitutional Court needs a quorum. Imagine that the powers of the judges of the Constitutional Court have ended and the quorum cannot be assembled, if this is a special session of the Constitutional Court, then you can block, technically, the possibility of making an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court. That's why there's a proposal, I'm asking you to listen to the hall, just to introduce a new concept of the "festive session of the Constitutional Court", which does not provide for a special quorum procedure to which all the judges of the Constitutional Court who will arrive are invited. And so we will not create a stalemate when the work of the Constitutional Court is blocked. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u178	I'll bet you an amendment to the 218th National Deputy Krulka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it, please. [[12:44:54]] For-52 The decision is not made. Next 224, Vlasenko. I'm sorry, 217th Welcome. Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u179	Dmitri Dobrodomov, People's Control. First of all, it's a shame that none of the more than 900 amendments are coming, and in principle it is a good idea of this law, and ultimately, in principle, you can't vote for it, but the amendments have to go, it's a pity that there are no deputies. What is suggested by 217 amendments? If the judge has been dismissed or has been suspended, he has no right to be reappointed to the position of judge of the Constitutional Court. It is a logical norm that results in a person being appointed a judge once without the right to be reappointed. I emphasize once again, it's perfectly logical and reasonable, and so I'm asking those deputies who are still in the room during the sessional day to vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u180	Thank you. Whoever supports the amendment of the 217 People's Deputies of Dobrodomov, please vote, the committee has rejected it, please. [[12:46:20]] For-46 The decision is not made. 224th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u181	Thank you. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I asked first to allow the committee head to comment on the amendments made by the deputies, if he insisted. Because, indeed, the previous amendment of colleague Krulka seemed logical, but here at moments, the head of the committee shows that he has logical objections, and they would like to be heard for his own understanding. And with regard to amendment 224, it's completely technical, unfortunately, that the law doesn't tell us how the oath is made, either by signing it, or by declaring it, and so on. I believe that at least in the Constitution, when we talk about the oath of the people's deputies, it is clear that the oath is read by the oldest MP, and then by the other deputies, it is sealed by their signatures. So I propose that the oath of the judge of the Constitutional Court be made out loud and declared, as it were, by the judge. It's a technical thing, I don't see why, and I don't understand why this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u182	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 224 people's deputies Vlasenko. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[12:47:44]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 225th, no insistence. 227th. He insists, doesn't he? So, 225th Krulko, then Odarchenko 227th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u183	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm continuing our discussion with the committee, and I'd like to make a comment to the committee right now. Yes, indeed, the final edition in part three provides that an oath is made at a special plenary session. But the plenary session calls for a quorum. Why I'm actually proposing this amendment to support the idea of holding special ceremonies for one function: making an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court. So that we don't end up in a situation where a deliberate portion of the judges of the Constitutional Court won't come to such meetings, they'll be torn down so that they won't be able to take an oath to the newly elected or newly appointed judges of the Constitutional Court who will be appointed or chosen from one of the three constituents. In order to rule out such an inadvertent possibility, I ask. I'm asking the committee to support and support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u184	Please put to the vote Amendment 225 Krulka. You've finished. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. One minute is enough. Please vote. We follow the Rules, John, we do not violate them. [[12:49:28]] For-46 46 supported your amendment. 227th, Odarchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u185	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, contrary to the Constitution we continue, you want to continue the mandate of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And the presiding, more faithfully, the confessor tells us, no harm, they will not do justice, but they will be present in judgment. I want to remind all the television audiences that the wages set by the committee today are 180,000 dollars. And people who don't do justice will get 180,000 dollars. My amendment is that we are once again violating the requirements of Article 153 of the Constitution. He cannot, Mr. Ruslan, rule by the court itself, determine the order of the court's work, including the order of the jury. Infringement of the judge’s appointment calls into question any further action he may have taken. Why create doubts about the constitutionality of such a court decision? I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u186	Please, the 227th amendment is applied to the definition of the hall. Please make up your mind. [[12:50:59]] For-40 Forty supported your amendment. 229th, Vlasenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u187	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. But we're once again creating a colossal conflict by breaking up the status of the judge and obtaining powers, as well as the release and. In fact, the suspension of the exercise of authority and the dismissal. We're breaking up these things completely by getting some gray areas. Well, of course, a judge elected by a council of judges, but he didn't make an oath, which means he's already a judge of the Constitutional Court, but justice can't do anything, can't do anything. The only thing he can do is get a salary and everything. And the immunity, as the committee head tells me, I'm with him. And I agree with him. So it might have to be from somewhere. to ease this situation and point out that the acquisition of powers should take place at the same time as the taking of an oath. I understand that there are certain constitutional warnings, but I'm convinced that you could find a formula that's shrinking. Reduced these gray areas and did not produce a situation where we pay money to no one for whom we don't know what.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u188	Halls, please determine for 229 amendments to the vote. [[12:52:30.]] For-46 46 deputies supported it. 230th, Odarchenko. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u189	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this is a technical regulation that we may have when a person who has been approved here at the Constitutional Court cannot immediately cease to hold a non-conformal position. For example, if she is a deputy and the Council is to vote in favour of withdrawing her mandate, or if she is a judge of another court and the Supreme Council of Justice is to remove her. Therefore, I propose that the authority of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine begin with the day of the oath, and from this point on, a nine - year countdown of his term of office begins. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u190	Please identify yourself. Amendment No. 230. [[12:53:35]] For-54 No correction supported Let's move on. 231st, Anointed One. Don't insist. 232th, Chizmar. Don't insist. 233, Chumak. Don't insist. 234th, Novak. Don't insist. 235th, Welcome. Don't insist. 240th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I propose that the judges of the Constitutional Court be banned from having private meetings with all senior officials of the State, as well as with their assistants and advisers. There cannot be in a democratic state a closed presidential meeting with the judges of the Constitutional Court or a court on a carpet to ministers or other high-ranking officials. The same should apply to meetings with deputies. All such meetings should be official, in the presence of media representatives and with full audio fixation. Only then can we provide a truly independent court. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u192	It's going to be the definition of the 240th amendment. [[12:54:54]] For-48 No support. 241, Chizmar. Don't insist. 242, Anointed. Don't insist. 243, Welcome. Don't insist. Odarchenko, 244. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 245. I thought something had changed. Please, Vlasenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u193	This can change in the political forces that are like flimsiers. We're fine, we're not changing anything. Turning to the 245 amendments, this amendment also touches on the solution of these gaps that we talked about: When a person first receives the statute of judge and then receives the authority. I mean, I think that the judge's working relationship should start from the day he makes his oath, that is, from the moment he can perform his duties as judge. So as taxpayers, we pay the cost of maintaining the Constitutional Court in order for it to administer justice, not to go with status and get paid. And then his work relationship should coincide with the fact that he administers justice. And of course, that's going to be the exact same thing as the time of the wage, and so on and so forth. So I'm asking you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u194	It's about defining the room 245 amendment, the people's deputy Vlasenka. Please determine by vote. [[12:56:31]] For-52 Let's move on. 246th, Krulko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u195	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, see what is proposed in article 21 of the first part. The fact that failure to discharge a judge of the Constitutional Court is a reason for his failure to exercise his authority under his health condition. However, seeking medical advice is suggested for the court’s head to be one - on - one, and in case of impossibility, the deputy head or the one acting as the head of the court. Imagine, then, when the judge’s position as judge of the court was based on a single request for medical advice that a judge in a state of health was unable to perform his duties. So my proposal is to replace the one-personality of the head of the court with the word "court," so that the question of asking the commission for medical advice would be done by the court, not by the one-person head of the court, or by the one acting as the head of the court. Because then it might cause some kind of manipulation in the very composition of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u196	Let's put the 246th Amendment to Krulk. Please make up your mind. [[12:57:59]] For-51 Let's move on. 247th. Don't insist. 248. Don't insist. 249. Don't insist. 250th. Don't insist. 251. Don't insist. 252. Don't insist. 253. Hairy microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u197	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyrno. In fact, the dismissal procedure in case the grounds for his resignation are found, prescribed something, let us put it mildly, illogically. Because two thirds of the composition of the Constitutional Court needs to be voted for in order to have all the grounds for resignation provided for by law. It's kind of like that. That's it. As a vivid illustration of what I said: we are making judgment in ourselves. So even with the reasons and the reasons for resignation, two-thirds didn't vote, and the judge is still working. The situation is completely absurd. But I propose, at least, to restrict the Constitutional Court, if there is such a rule, to limit the Constitutional Court to at least 15 days to deal with the matter. Because it is not written in the law today, during which time the Constitutional Court must gather and two thirds vote for it. I suggest we at least limit it to 15 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u198	Let's put 253 amendments to the vote. [[12:59:34]] For-58 No support. 254, Odarchenko. Don't insist. Krulko, 255th. Don't insist. Odarchenko, 256th. Don't insist. Krulko, 257th. Don't insist. Next, dear colleagues. Odarchenko, 271. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 277. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u199	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, I think we need to stop the extracurricular activity of the judges of the Constitutional Court. You know, they write dissertations, they teach, they work in various scientific institutions, and they write articles. This is a very useful thing, but above all, they should send justice and restore confidence in the only body in Ukraine of constitutional justice. But if we already have the Constitution as an opportunity for them (to receive) to engage in other activities, let us at least limit them to sources of payment for such activities. Because once again, I'm stressing, this could absolutely be used as a corrupt ingredient. And I'm stressing once again when we had a period when the Constitutional Court was looking at 2-3 cases, but they were all teaching everywhere, they were all printing articles there instead of having open court hearings without written hearings to deal with constitutional jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u201	The judges of the Constitutional Court may engage in teaching activities because this is provided for in the Constitution. But the committee doesn't support the logic that it can only be at the expense of the state budget. So he can teach in public colleges, but he can't teach in private schools. I don't think such an excessive burden on the state budget is adding to us as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u202	Thank you. 278. Oh, please, yes, 277th, I'll put it to a vote. [[13:01:59]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 278, Murrayev doesn't insist. 279, Odarchenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! This law now sets the salary for the Constitutional Court judge, that's with no allowances, 180,000 dollars! Attention! 180. And they also have the opportunity to get extra income without public notice. My law is binding if a person has a scientific activity or writes a book, as Yanukovich wrote in his day. Remember, this was the main source of his wealth, the writing of a book that was actively bought. He must place such activity on the Web site in order for people to understand the sources of his income. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u204	Please put to the vote Amendment No. 279 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. The head of the committee suggests that there are all these things on the website of electronic declarations. But we are determined by the amendment. [[13:03:21]] For-49 She's not picking up. Let's move on. 284th, owner of the People's Deputy Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u205	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrna! You're very good at retranslating the thoughts of the committee head. But sometimes I would like to hear the committee head himself at least minimally. Because he's more quiet today. Colleagues, 284 says that the judge is obliged to immediately inform the head of the court and the subject who appointed him if he feels any influence. This must be done by a judge. Not that they first, you know, put pressure on them, and then they tell us that this pressure was on them. I think that we should introduce this as a duty not only to the Constitutional Court but to any judge. As soon as pressure is exerted on the judge, the judge should be obliged to report it and the head of his court as well as the subject assigned to him. This is a perfectly normal, correct, transparent procedure for reducing the pressure on judges, including the judges of the Constitutional Court. Yes, we have such a general rule that the effect on a judge is forbidden, but we know that the effect on judges is only increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u206	Please comment to the chairman of the committee whose vote missed the author of the numbered amendments, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u207	We have an appropriate article in the Criminal Code, which provides for an impact on the judge of any court, including the constitutional one, with the relevant sanctions of this article. So here we simply recreated the general norm and we do not consider it appropriate to reproduce the relevant norm of the Criminal Code. They're going to work whether we write it down or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u208	Please put to the vote 284 amendments to the request of the national MP Vlasenko. [[13:05:22]] For-48 She doesn't get the required number of votes. Dear colleagues, if I happen to be someone. [[B in m in s a l in]] 288th in support. Lock it down, please. I heard you. I'm addressing the committee head. Head of the committee, please note that National MP Odarchenko 288 of the amendment of Knjazewicz is putting in place for confirmation. Please, the word Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, society now requires us to remove all privileges such as the inviolability of national MPs, judges, from the President. And now the committee is creating some special regime to prevent judges from being held accountable by the Constitutional Court. He creates special conditions when these judges can do whatever they want. I want to emphasize my logic: it's probably done to shield them from possible claims from society when they vote, for example, for removing the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u210	Yes, it is. Ruslan!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u211	Today, the committee, together with the majority, is creating conditions for these people to make any decision that is not for the benefit of society or to be punished for it. We don't need to hide, including the judges of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Ruslan, we demand equal treatment for everyone. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u212	Please note the microphone of the amendment author and the head of the committee, Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u213	I would like once again, on behalf of the committee, to thank the Fatherland faction for supporting the constitutional changes that, including in this part of your vote, have become part of the Constitution. And what I'm saying is that, on behalf of the committee, we simply quoted the word in the word Article 149, which became part of the Constitution by your vote. And obviously we need to learn to live in other realities when the Constitutional Court itself, in accordance with this rule of the Constitution, will decide on the detention and arrest of judges. It is our political will with you to deprive the Constitutional Court of any political pressure from Parliament. I thank you very much for supporting the changes to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u214	Please confirm 288 articles requested by the committee. This is a constitutional norm, asking for support from the committee head and committee. Please vote in favour, in support. Dear colleagues, please support the position of committee head. [[13:08:05]] For a hundred and Let's move on: 315 amendment of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko. 311th, this is the amendment of the People's Deputy Knazević, who is asked for confirmation by the National Deputy Vlasenko. Please, it's Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u215	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. You know, I'm saying once again that the main task of this law would be to restore confidence in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It is quite obvious that the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should receive a normal salary, and should be provided with normal security, with which there is no discussion. But we're talking about a specific composition of a specific Constitutional Court. Instead of finding the possibility of restoring confidence in this Constitutional Court, we pay, by law, we apply the crazed salaries to the judges of the Constitutional Court, including those who have taken decisions on Yanukovic, who have already made a decision on the Prashenko Agreement. So instead of restoring trust in court, we pay these judges by law, in fact, our bribes to keep them building both with the Constitution and with the laws what they created. Explaining how they were doing, for example, that the next session was any next session when I needed it. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u216	Please comment to the committee head and the amendment author.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u217	I just want to remind you, first of all, that I'm one of the authors, and all the rest are members of the committee that supported this amendment, and I just want to remind you that the authors of the right of the legislative initiative when they introduced this law, and it was introduced in September 2016, were predicting a corresponding calculation of wages, to push away from the basic unit of minimum wage. Since at the end of last year, at the time of the adoption of the so - called budget package, Parliament had refused to pay on the basis of the minimum wage, and had introduced another basic element, the subsistence minimum. We have already, in the first reading, agreed with you to apply the principle of paying for the work of the judges of the Constitutional Court, which is provided for in the Transitional Provisions of the Act amending the Constitution and already reflected in the Judicial Act, and the status of the judges, where they have been compared with the changes to the Constitution, in the wages paid by the judges of the Constitutional Court to the judges of the Supreme Court with the corresponding coefficients. Here's what's in the final line of the right column, no more, no less. And so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u218	Thank you for your clarification. Please accept 311 amendments. The committee's request, the committee's position to support it. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:16]] Z-77 Let's move on. 313, Capplin, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u219	Based on the content of article 8 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, the minimum wage will be from 1 January 2017. It's 3,000 200. Thus, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine proposes that he receive a salary of 240,000 dollars. I emphasize that in countries such as Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, in a number of European countries, the salary of judges is not more than 120,000 dollars. This money could be kept for a month by about two hundred pensioners and about a hundred workers. This is unacceptable in the face of our economic crisis. More to the point, we need to emphasize in principle, in principle, that we don't pay too much wages to heads of state enterprises, judges, prosecutors and so forth. In wartime, it is criminal and unconstitutional to pay millions of wages and not to raise pensions for ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u220	Please vote on the amendment of the People's Deputy Kaplan. [[13:12:51]] For-65 Let's move on. National MP Vlasenko, 315 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. Dear colleagues, my amendment also applies to the issue of salaries for judges. I emphasize once again, yes, the judge must feel protected, on the one hand, but in a situation where an ordinary teacher gets 3,000 600, when people, medical workers, get 3,000 600, today completely compromised institutions, without any restoration of trust in them, we put the wages prescribed by law in numbers that are measured by hundreds of thousands of dollars. I think we need to stop, really, this practice when we have heads of state enterprises putting themselves on the payroll of millions when we have the NAZC manager writing out a $200,000 bonus without doing any work. So I say, first to restore trust, first to create an institution, first to ensure that the Constitutional Court is really an independent, objective arbitrator in constitutional justice, and then to consider raising wages and some packages. It's not today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u222	We're voting for amendment number 315 of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. [[13:14:21]] For-93 Let's move on. Welcome home, 319th. Don't insist. Eutusek, 323rd. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u223	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I've already drawn your attention to those judges of the Constitutional Court who are in the Constitutional Court, and this is the law you're also trying to extend their "good life," more than that, even a good, beautiful pension. I'd like to replace the 75 minimum wages that you put in the law, we put at least 30, and it's going to be roughly 240,000 dollars, it's going to be the principle of social justice, about 96. Moreover, judges can take extra money for a scientific degree, for appropriate rewards there, anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u224	Let's put 323 amendments to the vote. [[13:15:34]] For-73 328. Amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u225	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, I'm saying once again, the material detention of a judge of the Constitutional Court should be high enough. But if we have a totally incomprehensible salary, and we are offered an extra salary in two years, another 20 percent in four years, and another 30 percent in more than seven years, another 40 percent of the salary! I mean, what is this? What is it? In our economic situation, when we're told in our budget report that they're collecting crumbs and coins, 40 percent of the pay? This is totally unacceptable in the numbers that we have. I'm suggesting, well, at least after leaving the payout for years, that you do it in some adequate number, not in some crazy, absurd thing that is. Since these figures are now used for only one purpose, this is a spice for the judges of the Constitutional Court to continue serving the Dusty regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u226	A vote is taken on amendment 328 of the People’s Deputy Vlasenko. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[13:17:07]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 339th, Vlasenko. What's that? 336? Thirty. 330th, Welcome. Then it's Vlasenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u227	Dmitri Dobrodomov, People's Control. By supporting the proposal made by the previous speaker, Sergio Vlasenka, Amendment 330 suggests that we reduce the amount of payments. I remind you once again who didn't hear, 180,000 dollars to pay, plus pay. I'm offering the next supplement, if more than two years, just 5 percent, not 20, as it is now. If it's more than four years, it's 10 percent, not 30 now. And if it's over 7 years, it's 15 percent, not 40. In the committee's lineup, the size of these allowances is 36, 54 and 72 thousand. Think of these numbers before you pay $180,000. I suggest this is the ratio of 9,18, 27, that's normal, that's adequate as a supplement, not as a second salary, which can eventually be made up of those supplements. I suggest you support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u228	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 330 Welcome. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote. Vote. [[13:18:46]] Z-87 The decision is not made. 329, Anointed. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u229	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, my license, which is number 329, is almost identical to the previous two rights that we've been looking at. Again, back to the fact that we discussed them on a committee-based working group, but still did not come to a consensus decision on this issue, and considering that now, if the law is adopted in this particular edition, the percentage of the proposed project's size would lead to the fact that the salary paid by the Constitutional Court's judge is almost a hundred times higher than the minimum wage paid by the citizens. And so we're actually going to raise the salaries of the judges of the Constitutional Court so much that they're going to get the highest salary in our state. That's why I think, given that there's a lot of right-wing in this direction, given that we're not living in such good conditions right now, in order to make allowances to the judges of the Constitutional Court, I still think that Parliament should support my right to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u230	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment 329, the People's Deputy of Amazanova. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:20:23]] For 132 The decision is not made. Now 339th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u231	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Well, actually, once again, the ideology of this law is to give the judges of the Constitutional Court so much that they don't think about anything else just to think about their salaries, their payments, their overpayments, and so on. See, the previous amendment was that over the years you can get 40 percent of the pay. Now we are offered another percentage of the pay for the post, or 15 percent will receive the head of the Supreme Court. It's for the crazy wages that it is. Then we're offered, and there's still going to be adjustments for the candidate's fees, doctor's fees and so on. I mean, I agree with all the colleagues who spoke to me, that it's unacceptable that they get the crazy numbers that they get for the totally inconclusive, not the professional work that they do. And then, once again, I emphasize, the basic ideology of these supplements is from Dustenk to give the judges of the Constitutional Court a variety of spices and carpets to keep them silent and continue to make decisions like what's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u232	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u233	First of all, I just want to make it right. There have been so many charges here. The charges were made on behalf of the President of Ukraine, and I just don't understand what the President is doing before this bill. Look who the drafters are! Our colleagues are national deputies: Yemen, Sidorovich, Birds, and others. I don't think they were trying to write for the very same political power. They tried to write an objective and just law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u234	Thank you. A vote is taken on amendment 339 of the People’s Deputy Vlasenko. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee's against it. [[13:22:25]] For-83 The decision is not made. 340, Anointed. 335th, Alexiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u235	Igor Alexeyev, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, we see what a lively discussion is about the fact that the size of the rewards and the supplements that are for the judges of the Constitutional Court are totally unacceptable. I would like to remind you that the official salary of the Constitutional Court judge is in line with the established limits that are now: 75 subsistence minimums. It's 120,000 dollars, it's a totally normal wage fund. And those initiatives that are still being proposed for the benefit of 40 percent, I think that's totally unacceptable, and in my direction, I wanted to reduce these sizes. I'm not saying that there shouldn't be any of these supplements at all, but on the scales proposed in the first reading, they can't be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u236	Thank you. I put to the vote amendment 335 of the People’s Deputy Alexeyev. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:23:55]] For a-117. The decision is not made. Yeah, 339 Vlasenka's been there yet? Was it already 339? Yeah, next 340, Anointed. Please, Amazanov, 340.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u237	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Colleagues, you know, we've been here for half an hour looking at premiums, wages, some encouragement for future judges of the Constitutional Court. And my 340th amendment is that we don't do any more. You just have to listen: judges who hold the office of the secretary of the college are paid 5 percent, the deputy is paid 10 percent, the head is 15 percent. It's from the crazy sadness we've already set up. So, dear fellows, my bill applies to one thing. There's actually a head of court, there's a deputy, it's an administrative job, but you don't have to differentiate them 10, 15, 20 percent. Let's just make them both another 10 percent of the allowance, that's going to be a lot. So, colleagues, I ask you to support my application and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u238	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of the 340th People's Deputy of Amazanova. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:25:21]] For 122 The decision is not made. Next 343, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u239	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. First of all, I agree with all the colleagues who objected that it is absolutely unacceptable at such a size of wages to set such allowances for such things. Now we're looking at the benefits of having a Ph.D. or a Doctor of Science. So this is a surreal situation: when we're discussing the budget, we can't find the funds to raise the wages and the little bits to raise the pensions, but instead we're talking about the crazy amount of allowances to the judges of the Constitutional Court. However, not one of these amendments is supported. None! So today, through this room, the idea is that the judges of the Constitutional Court have to ride like cheese in butter at a time when the whole population gets 3,600 at best. So I encourage you to leave, I say again, reduce these allowances to a minimum, reduce the amount of wages and resolve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u240	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 343 of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:26:54]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I'd like to make a request. We've been through 244 revisions. A third. Well, a little over a third. If we go at that pace, we're going to finish consideration today at the end of the sixth. I have a great request to insist when it is really principled, colleagues. I don't know what it's all about. Bills are still very important. The agrarian block that was waiting for those bills for two months! Then there are important issues that concern the humanitarian and social sphere. I'm just asking you to insist only when it's a really important thing. It's very simple. Otherwise, we will not consider any other bill today! It's just my request and my request to my fellow national MPs, my colleague. I'm moving on. 344th Anointed One. It insists, 344.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u241	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues! You know, I tend to think that in principle we can prepare this bill qualitatively today. Only one per day, but still to approve it, because it is really necessary for the Constitutional Court. But my 344 is about once again reducing the level of certain scientific supplements. When we have 15 percent and 20 percent of judges who have a degree in science in the current project, I suggest that we reduce them to 5 and 10. It's too much money anyway. And we know that now most of the rights that are being declared, including with regard to allowances for judges of the Constitutional Court, are being declared by national deputies who have legal education, who know what courts are, who know what justice is, who know what court wages are. And I also insisted on my work groups, but unfortunately, the committee didn't support me. So I'm going to propose that we put this bill to the vote and support it in the room right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u242	Thank you. I'm voting for 344 people's deputies of Amazanova. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Vote. [[13:29:22]] For-129 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it? We're going to mobilize? But only three times will be put. Colleagues, next up is 346, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 351, Pinzenic. He insists. 351, please, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, I voted against this law in my first reading. Reason? This law provides for wage levels that are unacceptable both economically and morally. Moreover, they seem rude. The first reading received a salary of 400,000 dollars a month. What changed the bill in the second reading? The situation seems to have improved — 300,000 dollars. You count and do not say, do not operate on a salary that is increased by one and a half times compared to the judges of the Supreme Court. Add all the extras and get out 300,000 dollars, taking into account the recovery aid. So my offer is very simple. We have no right not to assume that this is 100 times the minimum wage and 50 times the average wage. My suggestion: to pay the judges of the Constitutional Court on a fixed-sized basis without any payment and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u244	Please put to the vote 351 the amendment of the People’s Deputy Pinzenika: to fix the salary of judges on a fixed scale. Please, 351 revisions. Vote. [[13:31:18]] For 116 Let's move on. 352, Odarchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u245	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, many remember how Janukovic, when he wanted to obtain the Constitutional Court's decision that "cartoons" were members of the coalition, gave bribes to judges, unfortunately this was not investigated. But now Dusty's moving on, he wants to hand out these bribes at the expense of the budget, setting up such wages. I am convinced that this is done to break the moratorium on the sale of land. I propose that we compare the salary of the Constitutional Court judge to the salary of the national deputy, and that's fair enough, obviously, this will be a formula that will be understood by the entire community: the salary of the Constitutional Court judge is the same as the salary of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Not like this: 300,000 to get them to vote the way you want them to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u246	Please put to the vote the amendment of the 352nd People's Deputy Odarchenk. [[13:32:45]] For a hundred and Please move on. 353 amendment of the Ptašnik People's Deputy. If the card doesn't work, that's it. Please, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, my amendment also refers to a more adequate remuneration for the judge of the Constitutional Court, and I ask her to be supported. At the same time, I would like to point out that I could explain my position in more detail on all my amendments, but in my own time, the Committee of Legal Policy, something went wrong with it. And, Your Honor Ruslan Petrovich, you've assembled a task force closed down, invited neither the authors of the amendments there nor me as one of the co-authors of this bill, unfortunately. And I have a suspicion why you did it. The Transitional Situations, unfortunately, have now made some changes to various legislative acts that do not actually apply to the Constitutional Court. It's the Notariat Act, it's the Criminal Enforcement Code, it's kind of a regulation that individual state-owned enterprises have to become subordinates to the Ministry of Justice. I didn’t understand that position. And why did you accept these changes as a working group and suggest that you make changes to those laws that don't apply to the work of constitutional courts at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u248	Please, 353 amendments to the vote. [[13:34:26]] For-125 Let's move on. 354th. Look, now, first of all, 354 is the amendment, and then we move on. Please, Mr. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u249	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. My amendment speaks of one thing, you know, we've come up with judges, we've somehow called their retirement annual life support. Let's call them an honest pension, and then Article 27 should be called not the monthly life support of the judges of the Constitutional Court in retirement, but the retirement of the judge of the Constitutional Court in retirement. Because we're not talking about any money retention, and we're really talking about the pensions that they're essentially getting. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u250	Please have 354 amendments made to the vote. [[13:35:29]] For-127 355th for confirmation, this is the National Deputy Knazevitch amendment. Please, Odarchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u251	Dear colleagues! Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. The International Monetary Fund seems to require Ukraine, and this was confirmed by the President's signature, the reduction of pensions for ordinary people. Out of 1,000, 200 dollars people still pay 15 percent, just think about it. And with this right, Ruslan Knazevitch wants to give people a pension, judges at 80 percent of their salary. Vladimir Mikhailovich Pinzenic sounded this figure — 300,000. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, is it not a bribe or a disgrace, or is it not a bribe for the judges of the Constitutional Court to lick the President's heels? This is a disgrace to the whole Parliament! If we set up such pensions for the judges, no matter what we are for ordinary citizens. You taxed them. Shame! You don't have to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u252	All right, here's the comment to the committee head. 355 revisions, Mr. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, now I'll tell you what they really want to do. So the first reading voted a rule according to which life support is paid to a judge who resigned regardless of how many years he worked as a judge. The committee says that at least half the term should work and then resign and receive the corresponding receipt. And Odarchenko wants him to work one day, retire, and the state pays him money forever. That's true, not what you're saying here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u254	Mr. Odarchenko, you have an explanation. Are you insisting on confirmation? You have just heard an explanation from the committee that this will make things worse. Please place 355 amendments on confirmation. [[13:37:42]] Z-87 Moving on, please. 357th, Welcome. Don't insist. I'm sorry, 356 Amazanov. Please, Mr. Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u255	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Unfortunately, colleagues, I have to say that by the previous vote, we have actually done worse and much worse. Because today we will have such a standard when the Constitutional Court judge comes to work, one day he worked as a judge and resigns the day after tomorrow, and receives 80 percent of the money. I don't think we should have put up with this at all. And if you have to explain in more detail, I'm ready. But still, what I'm saying is, let's switch 80 percent by 50. But I still suggest that my colleagues return to the previous vote, because it is overweight. Please support me and go back to the previous one, because we have to raise 226 votes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u256	Yeah. I now have to make 356 amendments under the Rules, Your Honorable Mr. Amazanov, to the vote. And as for all the other rules that committee members think are making the quality of the law worse, that's when we go through all the amendments, you're going to go to the hall. And the head of the committee and the members of the committee, please, 356 amendments. [[13:39:18]] For 114 There are not enough votes. 358, Eutusek, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u257	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to support my colleague Sergey Vlasenka, who made his amendment to Article 27, about the monthly life imprisonment of the judge, and in fact, pension insurance. Indeed, the question of 80 percent of the reward here raises very controversial, socially unjust questions. That's why we're proposing instead of 80 percent putting 40 percent of the reward on the judge of the Constitutional Court. But I would like to say, sir, the head of the committee must have stopped this farce. The law absolutely, which, in the End, you have worn out all kinds of bad things, the changes to other legal acts, completely nullifies the entire legislative, let's say, procedure in this Parliament. Take it off, and so this will be an opportunity to consider other laws that are also, indeed, extremely important today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u258	I have to put it to the vote now, then I'll give you my word. After this amendment, I have to put it to a vote now. Please, 358 amendments, we vote. [[13:40:50]] For-89 Next, 359th, Vlasenko. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u259	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u260	I'll be right there. Dear Mr. Easy, I see your hand. I'll give you my word. 359, please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u261	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. To avoid any speculation or innuendo, I'll read what the Parenthood Party requires. The judge of the Constitutional Court receives a pension on the general basis laid down by pension law. That's what the Fatherland Party wants. No 80 percent of the salary, no 50 percent of the salary, and the Constitutional Court judge receives a general pension. There'll be a thousand 400 -- he went and got a thousand 400. There'll be a pension of two thousand -- he went and got two thousand, not 80, not 50,000 dollars. So in order to stop any speculation and close the hole, and by the way, whether he got fired in one day and or two, and after four years, he has to get a pension on a general basis, as it's supposed, no percentage of the salary. Please support this, and we'll take off all the questions, we'll take out the specials, we'll take off everything we can take off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u262	Please vote 359. I just don't get it, Oleg Lazko needs a word on what amendment? I don't understand. From this one? From this amendment. [[Noise Nodes]] Don't scream, please. I don't hear the amendment asking for the word Oleg Lazko. We are now voting for 359 amendments, please. [[13:42:46]] For the 180. On the 360th, please, Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u263	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Madam Chairman, my dear colleagues, everyone in this room understands that there will be no vote for the law. We've only been through half the amendments. I have a question, I think a lot of people. Those who listen to us ask questions. On the day to consider the family bill so that it will not be adopted when, in order of the day, the mass of other extremely important laws for displaced persons, social ones, and so forth. So I suggest, since we see that there are no votes under the law, let's stop this procedure of discussion that ends in the evening by not having the law passed, we're going to lose the day. Now, let's just go after the amendments that insist on making decisions, whether we vote or not, and move on to other issues: displaced persons, orphans, children who have no opportunity to learn from occupied areas; agrarian issues; land protection issues, higher pensions, higher wages. These are the questions we have to consider. And the day is nothing to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u264	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Faction, in fact, the Rules now require us to pass this fundamental bill on the amendments that the authors insist on. And as chairman, I'm only asking the authors to make the amendments they insist on. I have the next proposal, I think it's constructive. You can see, to the heads of factions, whether or not there are voices on it right now. We have no right to interrupt the bill. The authors of the amendments to the law have just come forward, and they say that if a decision is made to repeat the second reading, they are ready to make the amendments. But this must be a political decision. Please hold a meeting at the head of the Supreme Council on the fate of this bill. And while we're doing the repairs. And they tell me the factions of the coalition that they have voices. Let's move on. Correction number. 366th People's Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u265	Thank you. I understand that perhaps it is completely irrelevant for someone, as has been pointed out, to set up these crazy salaries and pensions for the judges of the Constitutional Court, to have no idea what, more faithfully, we know what, and we know why, and we know what, and we know why. This is important to me because the establishment of these pensions is obviously an instrument of manipulation by President Dustenk and a way of controlling the judges of the Constitutional Court who served Yanukovich at first and now continue to serve Dustenka by making completely absurd, incorrect, non-professional judgments in the field of constitutional justice. My 366th amendment concerns the issue of pension insurance in the first place, and it proposes to exclude all these crazy so-called monthly payments to the judges of the Constitutional Court in resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u266	Please, we put to the vote 366 the amendment of Deputy Vlasenka. [[13:46:25]] For-103 Let's move on, dear fellows. 371st People's Deputy Pinzenic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u267	Dear National Deputies! What can be expected of an organ whose activity will be governed by laws adopted with unjust rules? The first inequitable norm. The pension under this law to the judge of the Constitutional Court is 230,000 dollars! That's 200 times the minimum pension. The injustice of a friend. Special pension assignment mode. The norm of the Constitution says: "All citizens are equal before the law." This law states that there are equal citizens, and there are more equal, that is, the judge of the Constitutional Court. The majority of Ukrainian citizens have a pension of 1.35 percent each year. The judges of the Constitutional Court have a pension of 80 percent. That's why I'm offering it. All citizens, including judges, should be assigned a pension under the only pension law. A corresponding amendment is made to the law. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u268	Please put to the vote Amendment No. 371 of the People's Deputies of Pinzenik. [[13:48:00]] For 121 Let's move on. Is the Peacock National Deputy insisting? 375th. Don't insist. I only make the amendments that the author insists on. 378th. Please, Pinzenik. Now. I already announced 378, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that in addition to earning almost 300,000 dollars, judges are paid another month's salary, which is 288,000 dollars. For comparison: this amount is equal to the pension that the average citizen of Ukraine receives in his lifetime. For a more convenient comparison, this sum is equal to the annual salary of the Ukrainian national deputy. But there can be no leave payments, and we canceled them even for the deputies. Therefore, the proposal made to the law is to delete this rule from the draft law. Please put to the vote an appropriate amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u270	Please vote 378. [[13:49:22]] For-141 Then there's 377 amendments. This is an amendment to the committee members' request for confirmation. Please, Vlasenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make 377 amendments to confirm. Although the head of the committee says it's a setback, I would advise the committee's head to look into the complex's case. There's 383 of my amendment, which definitely doesn't make the first reading worse, it makes the situation right and right. I'm not questioning the issue of vacation, but I agree with the previous speaker, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic, who, along with the payment, in fact, is still receiving relief on the size of the office salary. That's why it looks ridiculous. They're getting an internship allowance, they're getting a science degree allowance, they're getting a job allowance, and they're going on vacation, they're getting another pay for recovery. So I'm asking you to put 377 on confirmation. And in order not to make things any worse, to continue to support my 382 amendment, and we're going to solve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u272	Please comment on the committee chapter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u273	That's exactly the opposite. The point is that the authors offered, and Parliament supported in the first reading that the judges should be paid more on vacation. The committee is absolutely against it in order to pay him another salary. What all the members of Parliament have said here. Because they look at the edition of the first reading, not at the fact that the committee has accepted the results of the preparation for the second reading. If we do not confirm it, the State will pay him double the pay on vacation. Because that's the first reading rule. And you, when you vote, determine what you support, whether you support it or not. Or we vote, and we support it, and we support it!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u274	Let's put on the confirmation of the amendment that the committee is asking for support. Please identify yourself. The committee's asking for support. [[13:51:46]] For 111 Let's move on. All I'm doing is making the adjustments that they insist on. 382, Vlasenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u275	Thank you. It's just an amendment that solves the situation and there's no problem. I offer to clear my words, this healing aid. And we solve the situation, there's no problem. There's no problem. There should be a payoff in the judge's office, just like any citizen under the Labour Code and the rules of the internal work arrangement. A paid vacation is 30 days. No questions asked. But no healing! We clean up our health and have peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u276	Please be determined by the amendment, colleagues. Amendment 382. [[13:52:43]] For 116 Next. 390, Vlasenka. Oh, I'm sorry! I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, Anointed One insists. Now. National MP Amazanov, 387 and 388 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u277	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. My amendment is 387 and 388. I can't take an extra minute, I can tell you in one. I'll say that by the results of our votes, confirmations, votes and so on, well, we're already balancing the law. But even less so in this law, it is stipulated in the first edition that the judge of the Constitutional Court has an additional 15 days to be on leave despite the payments paid to him on vacation. I propose that the judge of the Constitutional Court should have that right only after receiving five years, at least five years of service to the judge, only then will he have that right. Moreover, in 388 right, it is provided for everything, and in addition, by transportation, and apartments, for everyone. I propose to deprive him of his right to use transportation because we now see that the judge of the Constitutional Court comes to work just to get too much money, to get a free apartment, a car, and to go on vacation for an extra 15 days. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u278	Please, let's put 387 to the vote first. [[13:54:27]] For 116 Unfortunately, there are no votes. 388 votes for the amendment. [[13:54:46]] For 113 No support. 390 repairs to Vlasenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u279	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I don't insist on 390, but I'm asking for confirmation 391 amendments, which provides that when a judge who doesn't live in Kiev is granted a residence permit. I think at this level of salary, pay, health, pension, and so on, the judge of the Constitutional Court will be able and able to buy housing at his own expense. No additional privileges of service should be granted to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u280	Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? If we don't support this amendment, the judge will be able to, if you think about it, get compensation for renting the very expensive apartment, the state will have to pay. I did not write the expenses associated with moving, but the authors wrote in the first reading. The cost of moving from another city, the state, all its booklets, family, and everything else must be borne by the caravan at the expense of the state. And use any personal transport to your own discretion with further compensation for use. This is an absurdity that can't be allowed. We propose, at the time of his authorization, to give him a service residence, which for all the judges, the more in the Constitutional Court, this residence is already there, it just goes from one judge to another, nothing else is involved. Choose: Either you spend millions to transport your dogs or vote on your conscience. Whoever wants to vote, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u282	I'm betting on confirmation of 391 amendments. Ask the committee to back her up, please back her up, please vote. Please vote. [[13:57:02]] For-103 The decision is not made. Colleagues! What's that? 392, Anointed. Yeah? 397th, Alexiev. Attention: 2nd, Pinzenik, and then 7th, Alexeyev. 2nd, Pinzenic. Turn on Victor Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u283	Dear National Deputies! If you add all the payments that the ordinary judge of the Constitutional Court receives in a year, it's 3.6 million dollars. So you can buy an apartment that we're talking about in this law that we still have the judges from the budget to pay? When the reporter tells us that the standard was once invalid, it is not a valid comparison. Why? For there has never been near such wages as this law provides. If you are already making a salary, stop giving away free apartments. The relevant rule is proposed by me: remove from the text the right to service housing by amendment 392.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u284	Ruslan, put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u285	That's a bet. I just want to say, it's not about separation or existence, in fact, the government has already given in agreement with Minfin the Constitutional Court has already received these apartments. What are we talking about? At least look at what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u286	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 392 People's Deputies of Pinzenik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:58:57]] For 114 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, the authors of the amendments, I ask you to explain the strategic design. We can get to eight o'clock in the evening at this rate. I really, I have colleagues, I have, I'll give all the authors, I'm just asking for those amendments that are essential to the bill. 95th. 395, Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u287	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. These are important amendments, we're discussing some completely unknown wages for some caste they're forming here, to be implemented in further political orders. It's totally serious stuff. Victor Fedorovich did the same thing. He formed caste, gave them spices, and then they served him, and they restored the Constitution. Back to the repair. There's a service home in the Constitutional Court -- give it to the atollers. Give the atolls their place of employment with the wages they have. And when the committee head says that in their first reading, they've put up a million million rents for rent, I'm proposing to remove it from my first reading by amendment 395. We delete article 29, paragraph 2, and there will be no rent payments. Because the wages paid by the judge of the Constitutional Court will be sufficient to enable him to do so on his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u288	I'm voting on amendment 395 of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. [[14:00:42]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Now 394, Anointed. Ah, 397, Alexiev. Which one are you insisting on? 397. 394, Anointed. 394, Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u289	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that, really, when we didn't support 391 amendments that were taken into account by the committee, we only did worse, really, considering which edition was proposed in the first reading. But given that we now have this first-reading edition, because there's not a supported amendment, and we have 392-400, which are identical, they actually suggest that we rule out part two of article 29. So, colleagues, I ask you all to think at all that we are now, if we don't vote on one of these eight rights, any amendment, we will get, in fact, additional compensation to these judges of the Constitutional Court. They still have a high salary. Either we go back to 391, and we still support it, or we completely delete this part of the second article 29, which includes my 394. So, colleagues, think again, take your seats, or we vote 394, or 391 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u290	Thank you. Therefore, whoever supports the 394 amendment of the People’s Deputies of Amazanova, please vote. [[14:02:26]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I continue to meet for 15 minutes, as provided by the Rules. Next 97th. Are you insisting or not Alexei? No, it doesn't. Yes, 415 Anointed. Don't insist. 417, Chizmar. Don't insist. 418th, Vlasenko. Please, 418th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, the law does not regulate the pay of counsellors and assistants to the Constitutional Court judge in the form in which I propose to do so. I propose that, as is done for deputy assistants each year, the State Budget Fund should be set up to pay for assistants, assistants and advisers. I think it's going to be right, it's a working situation, and at least there shouldn't be any problems at the parliament level here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u292	Thank you. So whoever supports amendment 418 of the Vlasenka People's Deputies, please vote. It's a committee against it. Please vote. [[14:03:51]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 421st, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u293	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, what is this new caste of untouchables that we create in the state? The bill provides that attention! – the former judge of the Constitutional Court is not active, but former! – cannot be detained or arrested without the permission of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine! It cannot be searched or done in relation to it by similar investigative actions. The in touch with a judge, a colleague, is of a purely functional nature. He should exercise justice impartially, not be threatened by law enforcement because of his position. But you don't need to be touched by a former judge! Dear friends, why are we doing this? Why do the authors propose to be untouchable to former judges? Perhaps when they may vote in favour of a different moratorium on land, they may not be caught for the illegality of their actions and be held accountable. Please vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u294	Whoever supports Amendment 421 of Odarchenka, please vote. The committee turned her down. Vote. [[14:05:19]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 435th, Odarchenko. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u295	No! No! He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u296	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u297	Mr. Andrey, I insist on all my work. Colleagues, I don't understand the motives for rejecting this amendment, it's very technical. It is suggested that in the election of the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, it should be counted. The numbering commission could not include candidates for headship. It's perfectly logical, but the committee has somehow rejected this proposal. Do you think it's normal for a candidate to count the ballots for himself? I'm not saying it's basically corruption. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u298	Who supports the 435 Odarchenka, please vote. The committee's against it. [[14:06:16]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 438th, 439th, Krulko. Can I take two turns right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u299	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. After the 438 amendment, why do I propose to include the 9th in addition? Imagine that the head of the court is making a personal application for his early release from office, but such a statement is not satisfied by the Constitutional Court, so what to do in such a case. In fact, a dead end? Therefore, I propose adding an additional part of nine, according to which he has the right to terminate the duties of the court’s headship 15 days after the day of consideration of the matter by the Constitutional Court in case his application is not satisfied. Please support this perfectly logical and correct amendment so as not to create additional stalemate situations in the activities of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u300	Whoever supports amendment 438 please vote, committee against. [[14:07:34]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 439. 442. 447. Tymoshenko, 448, Yuri Timoshenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u301	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, what my amendment foresees. It provides that part two of article 35, paragraph 4, should be deleted. I'm going to hear what this paragraph says: "The Great Chamber is considering the question of (listen!) the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the questions proposed for submission to the national referendum on the People's Initiative." This paragraph is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The people are the bearer of the highest authority in Ukraine. This paragraph undermines the foundations of the peoples of government, the foundations of democracy. Democracy is the power of the people. That's the first point. With this position -- this is the return of Stalinism -- this law cannot be voted on. First question. The second question. Let's stop this farce at last! Not even half the quorum is present in the hall. All our votes are illegal. It can't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u302	448 revisions. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[14:09:27]] For-67 The decision is not made. Next: 453rd. Odarchenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, I think everyone here remembers the sad judge, Kyrieyev, who, according to Yanukovich, sentenced Julia Timoshenko to prison when she fought with the gas monopolies. But here the law proposes the same schemes when the designated chambers or Senate work on the same matters. I suggest that the Senate's composition is periodically altered to ensure a greater chance in their composition. So I suggest that the drawbacks of the Senate take place every three years. The courts of general jurisdiction periodically change the compositions of their colleagues. This is essential for bringing new views into the discussion and for avoiding the support of decisions solely because of a certain friendly attitude of judges toward one another. If we are no longer dividing the court into parts, at least the composition will not be permanent. I ask that we do not continue the practice of Janukovitch when he appointed judges who had to take advance advantage of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u304	The supporter of Amendment 453 of Odarchenka, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:11:04]] For-59 The decision is not made. 455th. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u305	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u306	458, Odarchenko. 467th. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Six? Seven. 467th, Odarchenka. Then I'll give you the Bird. The first is Odarchenko, 467th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u307	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. My fellow Members, I believe that the experience of the Court of Appeal and the Court of Cassation regarding the change of judges in the colleges should also be used in the Constitutional Court. In the courts of general jurisdiction, there are so-called interchangeable colleges that do not meet at the same time. If a judge is killed in one college, he is accidentally replaced by a judge from another substitute college. Since these colleges do not meet at the same time, the judge may immediately appear at meetings that allow the case to be resolved. I propose an appropriate procedure to be introduced before the Constitutional Court. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u308	Who supports the order of 467 People's Deputies of Odarchenk, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[14:12:31]] For-59 The decision is not made. 466th, Bird. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, my amendment concerns the settlement of the court's activities in the absence of its full composition. I propose that, if the number of judges of the Constitutional Court is less than 18, the college is responsible for participating in it, at least two judges of the Constitutional Court. This is aimed at ensuring that if the number of judges is less than 18, it is problematic to ensure that the work of the college is carried out by three members. Therefore, it is for these cases that it is proposed to establish that the College is authorized to participate as a minimum of 2 judges, if the total number of judges is less than 18. So my amendment is specifically aimed at preventing such failures or stops in the activities of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u310	Whoever supports Amendment 466, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[14:13:43]] For-68 The decision is not made. Next 481. Don't insist. 482nd. Don't insist. 484th. Don't insist. 490. Don't insist. 88th, Odarchenko. 488th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u311	Ladies and gentlemen, my first point is that the order of work of the court cannot be determined by the Rules. The Constitutional Court is not going to work by law. The procedure for handling cases is not established by law, but by some internal regulations that will work for the benefit of judges. We have to write down the way things are handled here in the bill. The bill, which I introduced and unfortunately was not supported, contained a full procedure for the Constitutional Court. There was no politics, there was a clean procedure. Regrettably, instead of drafting a bill drafted by the Presidential Administration and adding at least minimal questions of procedure to it, they were all paid to the judges for ransom. Who do you think this procedure will work on? Is she going to protect the judges or the trial participants? I ask you once again to clear the rules of procedure of the Constitutional Court. My amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-11-m0.u312	Whoever supports the amendment of the 488th People's Deputy Odarchenk, please vote. The committee does not support this. [[14:15:29]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, please record the next line. Yeah, eighth, we're done. Next, '90s. Don't insist. Just so I know who to start with, colleagues. It's a break. From 504. Colleagues? From 500? We've already skipped it. Colleagues, so I can get my bearings. 81st? Colleagues, no-no, time's up. I said, where do we start after the break? But we already passed it, Mr. John, you were gone. I've announced it. You weren't there. So 503 Krulke. Is that right? 503, Krulko, after the break. At 4:00, we go into the hall and start with the 503rd John Krulk. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to hold consultations and allow more intensive follow-up, colleagues. Mr. Ruslan, stay on the stand until recess, no, you can leave the papers. I don't think anything's gonna happen to them. Colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 4:00, we'll continue our work. And I hope for more intensive work after a recess at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
