ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u1	Good morning! Please invite the National Deputies into the Hall and prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. Can we have the registration? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please. [[10:06:43]] 335 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Not all factions applaud. Colleagues, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to answer the ministers' written questions from the deputies and 30 minutes from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Today the government will be represented by Hennaday Grigorovitch Zubko, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Education and Science Lily Mikhailovna Grinevich. And I would like to ask you a few words before Gennady Grigorovitch Zubka speaks. Rules up to 15 minutes. Please. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished fellow government officials! First of all, I would like to start by saying that it was energy efficiency that was able to consolidate the hall yesterday and give 278 votes for Ukraine to first have the technical and financial tool to make the route map and reduce the energy consumption of our Ukrainian families. And what I'd like to say is that in this particular job, we define as a priority for market relations in the heat market, utilities, the possibility of reducing our citizens' accounts and paying them for a reasonable price. This is how all of Europe lives today. And today, this road map provides for the next challenges that lie ahead of us, before the country, in order to become, in fact, energy independent. I'd like to take a moment to understand the scope of the question that was raised yesterday and the scope of the questions that stand before us, so that we can just look at a few numbers. Today, Ukraine spends more than 120 billion on the defence and security budget. Today, Ukraine spends nearly 245 billion on the Pension Fund. Today, Ukraine is putting 47 billion dollars into the state budget for subsidies, almost one third of the defence budget or nine or eightth of the Pension Fund. But if we don't do anything, we have an absolute threat that the number of subsidies allocated to subsidies can reach 75 billion. And it's not just our estimate, it's an independent expert's estimate, it's an estimate of practically the kind of energy that works in this market. And so today the question is very important: how much can we invest, and what is the main thing, how effectively can Ukraine move in this direction? And I would like to say that, directly, if subsidies are funds that are incurably spent by the State to support the social sectors of the population in need of such assistance, it is not only the ability to reduce energy consumption in the future but also the ability to invest in Ukraine's economy. Why? Because when we talk about how to raise the economy and how to further invest in the economy, what I'm saying is that energy efficiency is an investment in small and medium-sized business that will help modernize, resuscitate practically our housing, and that will also affect development and construction, and engineering, as well as the professionals working in this market. Now I'd like us to look at that road map of the tasks that are ahead of us. Two laws that were very difficult, but I think that these are the laws that made it possible for both the expert community and the civil society, and the people's deputies, and the European Union, and the European Commission, which helped us to develop two important laws that enable us to first form the consumer base, and the 417 law that allows us to start managing our property not only in individual private houses, but also in multi-story houses. And the second law you voted yesterday is the creation of a completely independent body that will work on a model of European funds that will allow not only financial aid to those households that go into modernisation, but also the possibility of effective technical solutions that today allow for the practical consumption of 50 kW per square meter in Europe. Compared to Ukraine, Ukrainian households now consume up to 185 kW per square metre. You can compare the effectiveness of practically the quality of services provided in Europe and in us. But the question today is very important, we need three more tools to enable us to move in that direction. And that's why I call on all the people's deputies in the next plenary week to consider, in the second reading, laws that enable first of all to address the issue of commercial accounting, the issue of the energy efficiency of buildings and the relationship between the consumer and the provider of services, the law on housing and utility services. What exactly do these tools give? I'll start with the commercial bill. It is the law that allows for a clear relationship between individual counters, instigators, and the responsibility, who serves and who responds. And what's important is that it makes it possible to make a fair calculation of energy consumption not by norm, not by choice, or by listing, or by any monopolistic company, those services that are being provided to consumers today, and directly by the account that can be controlled by both the landlord and the company that provides such services. And most importantly, I would like to invite the national MPs who are the authors of this law, and we absolutely support it, 40 national deputies today have introduced this law to Parliament. I would like to ask that we continue to work together and that we develop the normative documents that go into this law. Because it is in the methodology of the distribution between the individual accounting that the building account depends on the fair relationship between the supplier and the consumer of the service. The next question is about the energy efficiency of buildings. If we're saying today that we want to move to European consumption, and that, once again, I emphasize, 50 kilowatts per square metre of what is today in Germany, or 60 kilowatts as is today in Poland, or those tasks that put the developed European countries ahead of us by the 25th year to make 25 kilowatts per square metre, we should first have technical solutions, technical recommendations, certification of those people who can do this, and that's the main thing that will be responsible for the recommendations given. And so the question of how much energy is consumed, and what is needed to be done in order to be directly after the capital injections, after energy efficiency measures, is able to have the greatest effect on each invested bracelet or household, or the state that is helping through the fund, or through heat loans, or one bracelet that our international partners, who are also willing to join the fund's funding. By the way, another point that the fund itself allows the barrier to external investment to be removed directly into energy efficiency. Why is it important to do and adopt the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act? We need to build a whole market for project organizations, energy service companies, energy auditors, people who make engineering networks and do renovations, and that's basically the medium-sized business that will help to influence the development of the economy. I can bring the words directly to the person who heads the fund in Poland and who led the committee at the previous meeting where we met, simple words on why Poland in 2006-2007, when it was financial, started a financial crisis and all the countries in the economy lost, not only was Poland able to sustain economic development, but it was able to further increase GDP. It's the investment in energy efficiency, the renovation of buildings, that directly reduced energy consumption that enabled it to do so. And it's not just a housing sector, it's a question of modernizing businesses that provide services, and it's a question of the overall energy efficiency of business, which today also wants and is moving towards reducing energy consumption. And to do that, we need to unite and take simple steps -- to vote on the second reading of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act and the Commercial Accounting Act. The Housing Services Act. You know, I think it's probably the most pervasive law in Parliament today. In February 2015 he was introduced to Parliament's wall, and then he was sent to the first read-out, and then he was looked at on the committee, and there were a lot of round tables, a lot of discussions, a lot of attention was given to the people's deputies, Babak Alona Valeriyevna, who was directly involved in this law. But in this case there was a simple situation, every improvement that was made in this law made us waste our time, it became great. But now there's this extreme point where you have to put a dot, adopt a law and move to allow us directly to determine where the service provider's responsibility is, where the consumer's responsibility begins, what are the rights of the consumer? And, most importantly, allow consumers to have a fair service. To remove the possibility of monopolistic companies translating their inefficiency, their losses into consumers and thus force consumers to pay for their inefficiency. So I call on every national MP who today wants to help his constituents, Ukrainian families to settle market relations, to make fair reckoning, to make a fair relationship between the consumer and the service provider, to provide technical and financial tools to make it happen. And so make it practically the model that works today in Europe and, most importantly, gives a reasonable price for energy consumption. I think there's probably no one in the country today who doesn't think about how to reform the medical sector. We understand that this is a matter of the day, we understand that it is a matter of priority. But let me tell you, the question of energy efficiency is probably an even more important question, because a healthy person can also freeze in his own home without quality service. And I think that this is a direct question for every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian family and everyone who wants to not only have a reasonable price for community services, to pay for these services, but also to have a quality residence in the home where we raise our children, where we are practically eager to be at European level not only for consumption, but also for living. I'd like to thank all the people's deputies again, because, I tell you, the laws are very difficult, they're technical, they're complicated. But it is the consolidation around these issues that provides another opportunity to show that Parliament is working directly to reduce the burden on the budgets of Ukrainian families. And I just want to thank once again, in human terms, all those who have worked on this bill, those who will join in the future on a package of laws and voting, and the further development of regulations on commercial accounting, on energy efficiency of buildings and housing services. And I also wanted to thank our European partners, who have been accompanying these projects for a very long time, who have shown that route map, how this system is built in Europe, which provides a fair calculation, fair accounting, fair consumption in Europe, and shows the figures that we can get together to do so. In addition to technical support, financial assistance is provided. The financial aid is the one that is the size of 100 million euros. But I'd like to say it's help. And we need to think before the 2018 budget vote, how we as a country, we as a state will also be prioritising financing and investing in energy efficiency. I think we should make decisions together. When we see a figure of 52 billion, 60 billion that's spent on subsidies every year, we have to think a little bit about it and look at the figure, and how much we're investing in energy efficiency today. And that model that's being developed today with the Ministry of Finance, when the funds go directly to enterprises, and the model that can make it possible to return unused subsidies to the fund, and then additional investments to those households that need help not only as a one-time grant, but as a support to energy-efficient measures, it will allow you to reinvest lost funds in subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u3	Please finish for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u4	So for today, we have basically the whole package of the route map that we need to do. In addition, the issue of constant funding by the State of the Energy Efficiency Fund remains open. But I think we'll also find a common solution that will allow every household that is willing to invest in the renovation of its building to support up to 50 percent of the energy consumption for the modernization that they rely on in this direction. So once again, I want to thank you, invite you to work together. And most of all, please do not stop reforming. Today, it is important to show the changes reflected in the budget of each Ukrainian family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u5	Thank you, Hennady Grigorovich. And I invite you to speak with the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Mikhailnovna Grinevich. Please, Mrs. Lilia. Colleagues, allow Miss Lilia to pass, have blocked. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I would like to address two relevant issues in my speech today: the conclusion of the school year and the introductory campaign. The day before, we're in this campaign right now, it has some differences compared to last year, and I want to inform everyone about it now. For the first time in this school year, we developed our network of schools in public education. The overall assessment of our network is actually that we haven't been repairing schools over the past few decades, and today we have a worn-out network of schools. In this regard, the Regional Development Fund is largely focused on capital repairs and the construction of educational facilities. For example, last year, 20 percent of the Regional Development Fund in co-financing with local budgets and this year more than 20 percent of the DFRD funds are focused on capital repairs and improvement of the school network in various local governments. We've just started a project with the Ministry of Regional Development called New Education. And during the summer of the year, 200 schools in Ukraine will also be rehabilitated and updated on how to build an entire innovative educational space in a school that stimulates children to learn and provides an appropriate environment and resources. Despite the fact that today we have to work on a network of rural institutions to create resilient schools where children can be imported, first of all, to get quality education, and to get education when there are qualified personnel, as well as an office system where they have laboratory equipment, we still build new schools. For example, over the past year, 13 new schools and 8 new housing units have been built in public educational institutions, especially in urban areas in residential areas where the builders will be living, but they do not build social infrastructure. And we have in big cities a situation where there are over 35 children in classrooms, even 40 children, who make it impossible to get a normal education. So we are now working on updating legislation that will oblige both local self-government and the builders who are doing this, even harder than it is in actual legislation, to ensure the development of social infrastructure. Resilient schools. 189 Kingdom Halls operated in the rural area of this school year. So they also open during the school year. What do we have? We actually have a real improvement in the conditions for children to be educated in the third grade of school. This is important because today more than 33 percent of the children in the tenth class of rural areas are studying in less than 10 classes. Obviously, this also means that the same teacher teaches children five subjects, such as physical, physical, and English. Clearly, quality education is not to be expected for these children, for whom a senior school is to provide vocational education and selection of the next educational course. So we're going to keep working to get these kids to a good school, if that's not possible, at their place of residence. However, the principle of "primary school as close as possible to a child's place of residence" remains valid. This year, we put 200 million dollars from the government in ambushes of 70 by 30 — on school buses, 300 million dollars — into the equipment of natural and mathematical offices and 300 million dollars — on united communities. We're working on updating the curriculum. Understandably, a new standard is being prepared for reform of the new Ukrainian school, but it will only be introduced since 2018, 2019. It is important for us to update the learning process for those children who are in school today. So last year we've been working on updated first-to-fourth-grade programs, and we're going to present updated fifth-to-ninth-grade programs. This happened again on an open platform with a very lively discussion among teachers, scientists. We've got 10,000 proposals for change, and we're going to present these changes, at August's conferences, we're going to have their final approval and discussion. These changes have also been approved by the College of the Ministry of Education and Science. We also developed for the introduction in 2018-2019 school year of updated curriculums for a truly professional senior school in the tenth and eleventh classes. This year is crucial for us to prepare for the reform of the elementary school. And that's why in 2017-2018 the piloting of the new primary school standard will begin in 100 pilot schools in Ukraine. These schools are actually going to be the first to have a competent approach, a new educational material. And we've just started developing a course for the teachers of this school. Every teacher who will take the pilot school in 2017-2018 and the first grade in 2018-2019 will be trained accordingly. It's on its way in 2017. So here's a graph of the COD. We still have three external independent evaluations left. This year, we have over 240,000 individuals who make up an external independent evaluation and an introductory campaign will begin. In order to reduce the risk of overloading the server, we predicted the opening of the electronic cabinets earlier than June 29th. The introductory campaign will last from July 12th to 26th. It's filing papers for a bachelorette party. So everything is spread out in time so that everyone can submit their documents. Children submit nine applications for four specialties, which is the maximum number. We're predicting a maximum increase in procurement for those higher education institutions where there's going to be a high competition, and the AWC seniors are going to want to go to. 10 percent increase. This year, we are increasing the motivation for entering technical and natural specialties, given that after we count the whole remainder of the government order, we also focus on these specialties. This year the requirements for medical training are increased, and the Ministry of Health will only allow you to enter medical care if you have a ball in each certificate of at least 150 points. And this has already been introduced to the terms of acceptance. I would also like to point out that this year's certificates are included in 2016 and 2017, we have ensured their comparability. Regional, sectoral, and rural coefficients were also introduced. We help children in rural areas with these coefficients, and we help children who want to enter regional higher education institutions according to the coefficients depending on the region where this child enters, they have an increase in the result. We support the Galuze coefficient 1.03 for those who are applying for engineering, science and mathematics education and, in fact, highly deficient specialties. Income categories. So the right to interview is open to war disabled people, black people with this right, and people with disabilities. The exams, not the external independent evaluation, may be followed by participants in hostilities, orphans, and likened to them, and children who are unable to undergo external independent evaluation because of their illness. ZNA or exams may choose aboriginals from uncontrollable territories or occupied Crimea territory. This time they will be able to enter both the universities that have Donbas-Ukraine and Crimea-Ukraine, as well as the districts, four areas. This law was passed by Parliament. We look forward and invite candidates from Crimea to all the higher educational institutions in these areas, with Parliament assigning a thousand places of government order for candidates from the Crimea. I have to inform you, colleagues, that we only had 180 Crimea entrants last year. As a government, we are ready for every child who comes from Crimea to provide training at the expense of the state so that it can acquire education in Ukraine, be a full citizen of Ukraine and then work for the reintegration of Crimea, as well as uncontrollable areas of Donbas in Ukraine. I want to say that the Ministry of Education, along with the people's deputies, has also introduced another bill to Parliament. We are ready to make these changes so that we can make a fixed government order in the higher education institutions of Donetsk and Lugansk because they are in a difficult situation. Please, I hope that next plenary week you will adopt this law because it is very important to the Donetsk and Lugansk region. The benefits for ATO participants, they can choose to take the exams or the ZO. The children of ATO participants have the right to a first-line listing, and the children of the dead ATO and the soldiers and the heroes of the Celestial 100 will be provided with places of government procurement. The only thing they have to confirm is their willingness to study in higher education institutions, which is to build an external independent evaluation, and then we give them a place of government procurement. In addition, I want to report that we have approved state support for all these categories of benefits. And we now have, apart from the government order, free textbooks, social scholarships, student and student hostels. Moved higher education institutions will have fixed volumes of government procurement and also have state-owned support. The innovation is the introduction to a Master's degree in law for all without any special exceptions. And now we're also going to automatically take a foreign language exam when we go to the Master's degree, if the enrollee has a real certificate for the "TOEFL" or the Cambridge Certificate, so that if these people have an international certificate, we can accept this exam in Ukraine when we go to the Master's degree. I'd also like to inform all my fellow members of the National Deputies that we're currently working on it. In fact, we have already taken a decisive step to remedy the situation when software that was in service of the only state education base that contains the personal data of all our students and teachers, we are now abandoning this software and creating such a security that will be in state ownership. This is an extremely important step. In addition, we are now focusing this software on reducing bureaucratic procedures. For example, on its base we want to introduce and automate a complete system of licensing higher education institutions so that our higher education institutions do not have to drive with stacks of paper, but it was automated and transparent with a clear understanding of how they go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u7	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u8	And how are the corresponding performances of the licensing conditions for higher education institutions implemented to make this procedure open and clear to all? And finally, we expect that it is very important for us to finally complete the trial burden initiated by certain parties to the trial by the name. Because the government is ready to appoint the leaders of the NAME, and we are ready to transfer all functions to the NAME. It is important for us to finally stop the political games around this process. Because the only point that we don't have right now on our obligations, and especially with regard to the implementation of the Higher Education Act, is the creation of a system of quality assurance for higher education in Ukraine. And if we can at least work with universities right now to create their internal systems, this obstacle, which is now at the start of the work name, is creating a legislative gap for us. When we gave them the authority, and they can't do it properly. So we ask you to support us so that the work of this body can begin at last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u9	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina. Colleagues, we're about to record a question from the National Deputies. It's not the factions, it's the national MPs. So all those who want to ask questions from the government, please prepare for the inquiry, for the record. And first of all, if a faction doesn't fall, that's no reason to give an extra word. So please record a question to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please. Musei Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you as Prime Minister. Please tell me, from what time did Prime Minister Groisman become the personification of political corruption in Ukraine and the division of Ukrainians into varieties? You know that the ancestors of the former authorities, the worse, the better Ukrainians, were divided into varieties. And you signed your Order 310 on the distribution of money for socio-economic development. And those national MPs that you find disagreeable with, somehow their regions, not their deputies, and their people who live in the territory have not been able to get money from the Social and Economic Development Fund. Do you think this is non-political corruption? Do you think that division into Ukrainians is a new policy for your government? Please tell us how long you will maintain such a position and politics, and when will the people be your priority, not your national MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u11	Reverend Oleg Stepanovich, it's hard to understand that you've asked me with your judgements. But I can definitely say that both our government and I, as Prime Minister, and most MPs, are just thinking about how decisions need to be made in order to change the lives of Ukrainians, including in the area or region where you are elected by the Ukrainian People's Deputy. So I would like to emphasize that it is very important for me to have problems in every corner of Ukraine that interest people. I've never shared anyone and I'm not going to share. And please take this into account in your future activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u12	Thank you. Jury of Oksana Vasilivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u13	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the Honourable Deputy Minister of Defense, I will have a question concerning the Sagaidach Academy of Land Army, which is at the heart of my district. The very concerned parents of the undergraduates, the ones who are studying there, the teaching that there is such a tendency to transfer a part of the faculties, that, let's say, is not politically correct today, because this academy has a good name, there are patriots, there are people who are protecting. And today, young people who deliberately choose this profession are, of course, very patriotic. Just explain the situation, because there was concern about information on the Ministry of Defense’s website, and there is a call for the head of the district council, that is, the entire session to the Ministry and to us deputies. So I ask you to clarify the situation with regard to the Academy of Land Forces, because in 2007, they fought back. We have a very important training program for patriotic youths in Western Ukraine, where it is powerful.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on May 23rd, the Ministry of Defence conducted a committee of the Ministry of Defence on the reform of the military education system and the training of personnel. And according to the decision, the Ministry of Defence is really planning to provide for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the preparation of personnel and in order to make effective use of the civilian education base and the industrial base to train military professionals to form a military training facility in Kharkiv, the Institute of Tank Forces in Kamyanec-Podilsk, to form a new Faculty of Military Training for Engineering Professionals, and to form a new Institute of Moral Psychological Security in the National Academy of Land Forces in Lviv. All other faculties of this academy will be reformed into appropriate institutions. So in the academy there's a prospect of further expansion of the strengths and directions of preparation. The Minister of Defense worked last week in Lviv, and all questions were discussed with the academy’s management and related assignments. Therefore, there is no need to be alarmed that all who want to go to military schools should proceed, training will be preserved, and extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u15	Thank you. Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u16	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi, People's Front. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, the achievement of your government and government as well as Arsenija Yatsenuk, was the achievement of macro-financial stability in the implementation of budgetary policy. In fact, we recovered all the treasury debts that were ahead of local budgets back in 14th and 15th. But unfortunately, in some ways, the implementation of public fiscal policies leaves us with debt, including subsidies to the local budget and to the service of the LHK. In Sumi, it's 6 million, two months of debt. Some cities haven’t received a penny since January. This puts our policies at risk both in the budgetary sphere and in the area of reform of the LAG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u17	Thank you very much for your question, a very pertinent question. And I want to emphasize that, in fact, why today we're calculating the figure that we're going to close as a result of the heating season, because right now in this period, we're doing a recalculation, we already understand the figure. And I want to assure you that this month's government, and I'm going to ask for the support of the Ukrainian Parliament, will make a proposal to redistribute 15 billion dollars into grants to all companies in the fuel and energy complex, I mean the heat utility and everyone else who even provides utilities. 100 percent is going to be on all the calculations. All the funds are foreseen. Parliament's decision is needed. So in June we're going to settle this question with you. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u18	Thank you. Bible scholar Yuri Vasilovich conveys the word to Sergey Mishchenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u19	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Sergey Mishchenko 98 Kyivščina District Vladimir Borisovich, you know, there could be a very big social tension right now on the grounds that Parliament, by giving participants of the ATO the right to land, actually another General Plan Act, took that right away. You know that for today only 6 percent of the statistics of the Ministry of Public Health have general plans for the population. I'll give you an example, but I have a village in the Borispil district of Kuchak. He was charged 8 million dollars for the master plan, and his budget was one and a half million dollars. The task is simple: How many years do they not eat, not drink to make the master plan. But even if there is a united community, they need three times the budget, but the question is, They can't do it. And the main thing is that there's one single institute in Kiev where the turn is huge and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u20	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u21	Vladimir Borisovich, one of the only institutions that makes these projects general plans in Kiev, and there's queues and prices that can go crazy. That's when they get the atolls.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u22	Who Will Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u23	I want to talk about the master plan, and according to building standards, the vice-premier will say. Thank you for asking. I just want to emphasize that the development of the territories is an extremely important direction, and that the general plans are needed in every inhabited area. And actually, they were developed a long, long time ago. But what I want to stress is that the absence of a master plan is also an opportunity to take advantage of the distribution of areas, the change of destination and so on. I say this absolutely as an expert, because in my life I've developed two master plans, not one, but two general salaries. And that's why I think that this issue needs to be settled, and every populace has to get a public document: what, where and how they're going to build, where we're going to have parks, what we're going to have in transport infrastructure, and so on. With regard to resources, it is necessary to identify and perhaps separately support this direction of development of such documentation. And I agree with you that you need to expand around those who have licenses to develop such documentation. Thank you for asking. Hennady Grigorovich, please. Hennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I'd like to say that planning the territory is a top priority for the community. But what I would like to say is that the direct number of entities that today can develop such a master plan is not one in Kiev. First. The other one. Sources of funding. The Regional Development Fund is now an opportunity to finance such projects also at the expense of the Fund, because it relates to strategy and development. Please submit such projects, yes, they can be considered. The second source is European sectoral support, and it's also the money that needs to be focused primarily on project design. Also, the source of funding, please join the local communities, communities, and provide such projects so that the funds can be used in the direction of planning the territory. I think, directly, we're going to look at and give you an information map of how the united territorial communities move in the direction of territorial planning is an opportunity to invest. So I think we're going to deal with this issue directly with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u25	Ichchenko Vadim. Pass the word to Igor Lucenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u26	Thank you. I have a question for Vice Prime Minister Kistion. On June 2nd, you visited the West, organized by Burizma in Monte Carlo. This is Zlochevsky’s company, one of the largest bandits of the Yanukovitch era, who robbed the Ukrainian Nadra, who robbed the Ukrainian budget. Please tell me, why did you go there? Do you not know who Zločevski is? What did you talk to him about? Why were you taking pictures with him? And can it be expected at all that the officials of our respected government, the Cabinet of Ministers, will regularly take action? And by the way, yeah, whose account did you go there for? And can it be expected that our government’s officials will regularly travel to the western parts of Zacharychenka, Arbusov, and other criminals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a really 2nd of June in Monaco is an energy forum. The organizer of this forum was the Institute of Adam Smith, one of the important institutions. In large numbers, who was a participant in this forum, the personalities you called at least I wasn't aware of until I took part. I would like to point out that at least two ex-Presidents of the European States, two ex-Prime Ministers, were involved in this forum, while the members of the European Parliament were active. So I think that the voice of Ukraine in terms of energy security and Ukraine's participation in this segment must be binding. Considering that those processes that have been going on lately are very important for Ukraine, including the construction of North Stream 2 where this issue has been seriously discussed and discussed in this energy forum. With Mr. Zločevski, it was probably a photograph after the panel. If you noticed, there was a presence and Prince Monaco, there was the presence of ex-President Alexander Kwasniewsky and. [[B in m in s a l in]] So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u28	Taras Dmitrovitch's flint, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u29	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Please pass the word to Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished officials! It was very nice to hear the report by Lilia Greenevich and how education reform was taking place. I can't say we're so good at energy, Vladimir Borisovich. I asked you a few Fridays in a row about the opposition to Nord Stream 2 regarding gas transit after 2019. The issue of corporate governance and reform of NAC Naftogaz's corporate governance, as well as the issue of energy strategy, is also of concern. We need coordination to protect our national energy interests abroad. We very much ask you to hold a general meeting on energy security and to develop an appropriate strategy, and to understand how we will protect our interests. Because we don't see that kind of work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u31	Thank you so much for your question. I can tell you that such meetings are regularly held on a regular basis, in different formats, and usually are closed because they have confidential information that is very important to our national security. I want to assure you that all political and legal measures are being taken by Ukraine to promote national interests, including the coordination of our efforts with other international partners to prevent the construction of this political project, which poses a total threat to national security not only by Ukraine but also by other states. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u32	Thank you. Kirichenko gives the word to Oleg Lashkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u33	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, I am very unhappy with your work. Two months ago, our faction came to a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers requiring the government to return to the government's gas distribution network, which was built at the expense of the state budget, at the expense of the people's funds in the villages. Today these gas distribution networks are operated free of charge by the oligarchs of Firthash, Ljovcken, Boyk, and billions of dollars from their own pockets are paid in the pocket of the oligarchs. These networks are still not back in government. I have a simple question from millions of Ukrainians who pay excessive tariffs: why haven't you taken these networks to the oligarchs. These are corrupt contractors, these are schematics, these are some sort of oligarchs, or why are these oligarchs still using folk property? I demand that you assemble an extraordinary meeting of the government today and make this important decision for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u34	Thank you very much, Reverend Oleg Valeriovich, for your question. You're absolutely right that the networks that are being used all over the country today have to be paid for and leased, because they belong to both the state and, sorry, the municipalities, and this job needs to be done. I would like to stress that such an initiative is in Parliament with regard to the adoption of a law that has not been approved, we will transpose this law. But there are, including, the truth is that we need to find legal mechanisms to bring order in this area. In fact, after your address, I gave the order to the First Deputy Prime Minister, and he will now comment, organize this work and start working on it. The work is complex, difficult, work that will be clearly accused of all legal institutions. So you can do, you know, very fast steps here, but then we'll be guilty of doing them wrong. So I ask you, your lawyers, join us, let's do the right documents, do the right expertise, and we will make decisions not for the sake of the oligarchs, but for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens and Ukraine. In addition, the U.S.S.A. today has violated criminal matters. on this issue, including the rightfulness of the use of these networks. So, Reverend Oleg Valeriovich, I think that dissatisfaction with my work was more of an emotion than an inner feeling, but I want to emphasize that the government is working for Ukraine and the Ukrainians, and it will do so. And I ask you to support our actions that will raise the social standards of Ukrainian citizens, in particular, support a just pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u35	Thank you. I also think it was an over-emotional assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u36	Mr. Andrey! Mr. Andrey!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Valeria, I'd like to say that. Oleg Valeriyovich, Oleg Valeriyovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] On your order, I've received an appropriate order from the Prime Minister, and your request is being processed. Second, 95th ruling. The 95th Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has argued that contracts for the payment of gas transportation services are property, municipal, state and private. The Prime Minister was told that there was an open criminal case. For us to conclude contracts by June 15, 2017, we need to make legislative changes to the three bills. The first is pipeline transport, the second is natural gas market accepted, and the third is public property management. The government is now, prepared on the basis of three meetings with the members of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Economics, which I, and Mr. Kistion, have drawn a road map that we will settle by the end of June. From the point of view of the violation of legislation, criminal responsibility is exercised by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u39	Thank you. Matkovsky Bogdan Miranovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u40	Bogdan Martkowski, 121st constituency. Please pass the word to Dmitri Dobrodom.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! Please tell me, after a scandalous situation with the total legal removal of the deputy of Artemenko from Ukraine first, and then from the mandate of the deputy of the Supreme Council, would you please tell us whether you are aware of the existence of dual citizenship in your ministers, vice-ministers, vice-ministers? Were you interested in that question? What will your actions be if one of your subjects has dual citizenship? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u42	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. People's MP, for your question. For the information I have on citizenship, there are no violations of current legislation by any member of the government. If you have information that someone has dual citizenship and is breaking the law, please give me that information, I'll check it out. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u43	Hopil Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u45	Alexander Kodolah. Dear colleagues, last week the Ukrainian delegation for the support of the United Nations Development Programme visited Latvia, where experience on energy efficiency was studied. Clearly, the European Union’s assistance was an important factor in strengthening the country’s energy efficiency, but at the time the participation of the banking sector that provides such loans is very important. Yesterday we passed the Energy Efficiency Fund Act. I think this is a significant and important step forward for our country. But now we know that loans in Ukrainian banks are still expensive and not available to borrowers who want to take such energy-efficient measures. That's why I have a question. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, what are the measures planned by the government, perhaps with the banking sector, to develop mechanisms for the cost of such loans? Is it planned to make Ukrainian banks' loans more accessible? And what's going to happen with the hot loan program.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u47	What's going to happen to the hot loan program after we started the Energy Efficiency Fund that we started? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to thank you for supporting this important bill, and to say that, indeed, the resource involved by our citizens, our Ukrainian families, in order to carry out energy-efficient measures, is in the banking sector. The state, the international partners, are willing to co-finance the body of the loan up to 50 percent. But the interest on loans is really large. You know that the National Bank of Ukraine has accepted a 12-and-a-half percent discount. And last week, we had a joint meeting with participants in this project on "hot" loans -- "Private Bank", "Savebink", "Ukreximbank" and "Ukreximbank" -- about lowering the burden on credit percentages. But on the other hand, I'd like to say that the program of "hot" loans will continue and primarily work with the individual sector. What effect can we have on reducing the burden of credit rates that today go alongside loans? Along with the hot loans program, along with the possibility of implementing the Energy Efficiency Fund, we've developed a whole system of municipal programs, and municipalities have adopted these programs to support their citizens living in communities through these municipal programs. Today, 216 municipal programs work, and they work in different directions. There are municipal programs that provide interest rates that compensate citizens for the cost of these loans. There are cities that are now compensating all interest on loans to citizens. But how can we influence the loan on these loans? We think that by today, the four state banks that are working are already starting to compete with each other for practically the consumer that is turning. Why? Because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u49	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u50	The return of credit resources today takes place for one or a half years. These are the best lenders that are going to the bank today, and the banks are very interested in these loans actually coming back. But I think when we put in place an energy efficiency fund, we can expand the list of banks, involve banks with foreign investments that can join this program, and thus compete with the consumer's credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u51	Thank you. Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u52	Please pass the word to one of the best majors of Lapin Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u53	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, a question of the following nature. So for 2017, on the concept of reform and development of the coal industry. By the end of the third quarter, you and I had to amend the Bill of Budgets for 800 million to upgrade mines and 200 million for other measures. As far as the miners are concerned, we are. The point is, at what stage, please explain this process so that we don't think again at the end of the year where to take money on wages. And the second question. Mr. Klimkin said he was ready. His office for the introduction of visas with Russia, until the requirements of 2014 for the introduction of visas with Russia of our PNDP. The question is when.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. In fact, when we adopted the concept of coal development, we also envisioned a plan of action for the development of the coal sector. He has to say that the plan of action predicts that within a year and 40 days we will not have any mining mines, and all mines will be profitable. In fact, the action plan provides 800 million dollars for the modernization of the budget and 200 million dollars for the mine protection system. On Monday at 10 a.m., we agreed that the Ministry of Energy, together with the Ministry of Finance, would discuss this issue, and the Ministry of Finance would pass a final verdict. The Ministry of Energy will insist on funding according to the government's plan of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u55	Thank you. And please ask the second question, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I just can't see if. There's a deputy, right? Please. Suit yourself, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u56	The distinguished national electorate, indeed, has confirmed what we have said long ago, that if a proper decision is made, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ready to process all the necessary mechanisms for the introduction of a visa by the Russian Federation. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that there are some difficult points that we would like to avoid in this process. The minister said the same about them yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u57	Thank you. Colleagues, me. Two more questions will be discussed. Two minutes and two questions, we'll never make it again, colleagues. And Mishchenko gives the tree, and then the Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u58	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. Thank you, Mr. Mishchenka, for your word. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, Minister of Defence, and I am also addressing the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you for immediate intervention in a situation involving Aselsan and Elbit, which is now going on, which they want to complete today. In view of the fact that during the 14 days of this test, only one day were assigned to test new communication patterns, and you were commissioned to carry out tests of all the best communication samples. The other one. Given that in 14 days they failed to fully test the stability of the radio-electronics, which is extremely important to our army, the proposal for NATO standards was rejected, even though we voted in favour of NATO yesterday, and confirmed our methodology. And most importantly, I think it was related to a conflict of interests concerning what the outcome of such a test might be, if not a verdict, an evidence base on the crimes committed by those officials who made decisions regarding Turkish equipment earlier. So I'm asking you to continue the trials, to change this guidance to an S.B.I. or D.S.I. And most of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u59	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u60	Above all, it is true that they will be fully tested for the resilience of these devices in connection with the equipment of the electronic struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. A commission of inquiry has been set up to carry out the decision of the Minister of Defence and the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and is headed by the Deputy Chief of Staff. Today, indeed, the procedure continues. In the near future, the Secretary of Defense personally controls this process, he listens to all the results, and appropriate decisions will be made. We'll keep you posted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u62	Colleagues and last question. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u63	Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! It is objectively recognized that the reforms and responsible political steps taken by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and continued by your government for the support of the coalition in the Supreme Council have produced positive results. It's also a visa-free regime with EU countries, it's also a win-win lawsuit in Stockholm arbitration. And now we're not to blame for Russia, and Russia can't call us now, and there's going to be a fair price for gas and there's not going to be a "take or pay". I want to say that thanks to the special confiscation regime, $1.5 million was also included in the budget of Ukraine, which was stolen by the Yanukovich gang. Please tell me, do you now need to create a working group to discuss with you the ways in which these costs will be directed? For the socio-economic development of the country, 500 million for the construction of engineering buildings on the border with the aggressor country, 200 million for additional equipment for the issuance of biometric passports, 250 million for the creation of a startup so that our young people can do business in Ukraine and not go from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u64	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u65	Next question. Let's assign and create a working group so that we can do this work already. And the second. In recent days there has been an extraordinary event in Chernobyl, a downpour that has caused a great deal of damage to housing and utilities. Is it possible to provide support from the contingency fund for the restoration of the Chernivite household? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u66	Maxim Yuriovich, thank you for asking. Dear fellow national MPs! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I absolutely think it's a very good suggestion to set up a group, including involving coalition deputies to determine how to use these funds. Moreover, this will be possible only after the decisions of the Ukrainian Parliament have been taken. So we're completely open to cooperation here. In fact, with regard to the second issue of the Chernobyl disaster, I am tasking the First Deputy Prime Minister to study this issue in terms of the need for support and assistance to the city. And in general, my fellow countrymen, I would like to thank you. Thank you for actually supporting important, uncomplicated decisions. Yesterday, Thursday, we voted on the Energy Efficiency Act. It's a very important law. Medical reform has also begun. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that it is very important to make decisions that make a difference in the life of Ukrainians. This requires our responsible position. You know, sometimes I talk about it in the media, and today I want to emphasize. There are national MPs, there are colleagues who are competing to make Ukraine a success, and there are those who are competing for power, there are those who are competing for their own rating, there are those who are competing for anything but getting better. Because there's a new formula, you know this formula, sometimes it's practiced by some people, they say, yes, the worse, the better. I don't agree with that. Some politicians, or better people, are worse off because less and less will remain fields for their cheap political speculation. And what I want to stress is that our task with you is to develop a national economy, the second is to raise people's social standards, the third, and what we have to do is to raise the Ukrainians' pensions. And we have to do it this summer. Dear colleagues, all necessary decisions have been made so that as of October 1, 9 million Ukrainians will receive a higher pension. It's possible when we do it together, friends, president, coalition, parliament, whether it's a coalition political force or not, because tomorrow you're going to go to your constituents and look them in the eye. And it's very good to have something to say about what was done specifically for every Ukrainian. So once again, I want to thank you. I want to say that it is very important for you and me to use another principle: The better people, the better Ukraine, the better for all of us. So I wish all of us success on this path, and I count on your further support. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u67	Heroic glory! Thank the government for the fruitful discussion. Thank you for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And "the hour of questions to the government" is over. We're moving on to the announcements. And first of all, I want to make an announcement. I want to make an announcement first. First. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal of the National People's Will Group of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Petrovic. And then I was approached by the People's will group, and they would ask for another person to be expelled from their ranks. I demanded that he arrive directly with that question, but since the group has made a request, I will also read that statement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the withdrawal of the National People's Will Group of the Ukrainian National Deputy Oneštenka Alexandra Romanović. These are two statements I wanted to read. Now we're going to question the MPs. I would like to remind you that according to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have time on Friday to announce parliamentary inquiries. And I invite you to speak to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. Colleagues, there are 239 enquiries registered today. And we have requests for the President of Ukraine. And as you know, when we consider these questions, we have to vote in favour of the request. So I'm asking the deputies not to leave the session room right now so that we can ask for support and vote for it. Thus, requests were received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the President of Ukraine regarding the removal of the "Publication is not subject" and the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for former national deputies of the URSR and the Soviet Union, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company and members of their families, who count pensions, on the basis of the current official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the suspension of the payment of pensions to all these "privileged" persons. I ask you to vote in favour of this request, Your Honor. [[11:22:07]] For 101
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u69	101 people's deputies. There's no potential as our speaker says, so let's move on. So Stanislaw Berezhkin to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to conduct a verification of the legality of logging near the village of Understanding in the region of Alexandria in the region of Kirovograd in the Black Crow (Black Forest), which has an important historical and cultural significance of the national level. Victor Razwadowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of laptops for the compilation of the Lubarski Professional Class of the Žitomir Region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the repair of the road, which connects the military town No. 115 of the village of Berezovka in the Žitomir region, the Zitomir region with the Kyiv - Chop route. Yaroslava Moskalenka to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent response measures to prevent environmental crime in Kyivland from being committed in connection with the removal of trash from Lviv. Victor Halasyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the fulfilment of the requirements of Ukrainian Law No. 1792-VIII of 20 December 2016. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of housing for officers who have been released from reserve or retirement and who are on housing in the Kyiv region. Sergey Shahova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent restoration of the railway connection of Bilokurakine-Svatov, Lugansk Region. Alexander Abdullin to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the appeal of the Odessa District Lawyers Association to the creation of corruption schemes by the management of the State Enterprise "Culindorian Combine of Bread Products" of the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the address of the leader of the public initiative "Ukraine – Without Corruption" by Andrija Shevchenk on inefficient governance, corruption and non-professional occupation of the country's roadmasters. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues related to road development, as well as on the allocation of funds from the State budget for the repair of Suma Roads in 2017. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an additional grant from the State budget of Ukraine for 2017 for the maintenance of vocational and technical education and health care facilities in the Suma region. Mikhail Bondar to the Director of the National Radio Company, Head of the State Company, Western branch of the DP "Ukrainian Radio Centre" on the calculation of FM frequencies for the Radehivsky and Bousky regions of the Lviv region. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District Administration, the head of the Lviv District Council for the free transfer of immovable property, which is on the balance sheet of the Municipal Enterprise "DPC Central District Pharmacy No. 91 of Busk" to the balance sheet of the management of the joint property of the Bousky Paradise of Lviv Region. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the start of the negotiations between Ukraine and the People's Republic of China on the introduction of a free trade zone. Valery Pisarenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the non-discrimination of national health education at the international level. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine, for the conduct of an investigation into the abuse by officials of the public company Ukratransgaz. Mr. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need for timely and full recalculation of subsidies from Ukraine's State Budget for 2017 to local budgets, by means of a clearing mechanism determined by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decision of 11 January 2005 No. 20. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the absence of medicines for rare (orphan) patients due to the delay in the process of public procurement by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-target use of the budget allocated to the Lviv Forest Development Programme for 2010-2015. Savchenko’s hopes for Henprocuror of Ukraine for information on the conduct of pretrial investigations regarding the provision of inadequate formal clothing for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Artema Witka and Dmitri Lubinz to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the objective investigation of events that took place in the village of Vilshana, Kharkiv district, on May 17, 2017. Vladimir Aresonkov to the executive responsibility of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine to settle the single tax issue, whose fixed rate is established by the relevant local authorities and is lower than the maximum for the respective group of single - tax payers. Igora Lucenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on an independent investigation into the circumstances of the deliberate murder of a fighter for the independence of Neil Hasević. Helen Sotnik, head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Kiev for the use of measures aimed at cancelling the building permit for the construction of the residential and office complex and the cancellation of the urban conditions and restrictions on the construction of the land for the construction of the residential and office complex between the streets of Mikilsko-Slobydsk and the Brovarsky Prospekt in the Dniprov district of Kiev. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the Ministry of Regional Administration of the Montenegrin Region for Housing and Housing in the village of Stari Broskivci of the Black region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the commission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to open the crossing points across the state border "Russia", "Krasnoilski" and "Shepet". Sergia Dunayeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Kistion, Secretary of the Council for National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Minister of Temporary Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons on the need for an immediate solution to the extraordinary situation in the LCSL Lysicánskwater Channel in the city of Lysican Lugansk Region. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the National Objective Program "Protection of the Rights and Support of Migrant Workers of Ukraine". Savchenko's hopes for the head of the National Police for the persecution and pressure of public activists by the National Police in the cities of Lviv and Kiev. Oxana Jurinec to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, on the status of the implementation of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Poland on the granting of a loan under the conditions of related assistance. Vladimir Parasuka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for possible corruption in order to obtain undue benefits from officials of the Ukrainian State Agency for Film Affairs. Jurya Boyka to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the Obstacle to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalia Jurijovna Královska, during the Odessa Forum on "Women for Peace", causing her bodily harm, which may result in partial loss of vision, ensuring objective and impartial investigation of crime. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the government pension reform. Mr. Andrija Galchenka and Mr. Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of payments by the State Treasury Service, which is guaranteed by the State. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of medical and medical facilities with licensed computer programs and computer technology. John Balloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the right of permanent use of the state-owned company Radgosp-Profession "Vinogradowski" by state-owned property. Group of National Deputies (Germany, Sakka and others) to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the provision of full, objective and impartial investigation into crimes committed against the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the opposing bloc of Natalia Kraljevska during the women's reunion of South Ukraine, held in Odessa on June 2, 2017. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for timely representation of information in the VAT electronic administration system. Alexander Kodola’s temporary duty to the Ukrainian minister of health to take urgent measures to provide children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia with appropriate treatments. Oleg Kulinić, head of the State Service of Ukraine, is in a state of emergency with regard to the warning of an emergency in the village of Pokhrovské Zynkowski district of Poltavsk. Yuri Pavlenko to the minister of culture of Ukraine regarding the procedure for the registration of religious organizations. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the central executive authorities on the question of decentralization of the functions relating to the protection of the rights of children. Jury Bublika to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre for the violation of the rights of ATO participants in the Novosanjar Region of Poltava, unlawfully capturing their land for the conduct of private agriculture through falsification and falsification of permits in these areas for the benefit of private entities. Sergey Kiwalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Henprocuror of the need for objective consideration and effective response to the Odessa District and City Employers' Organisations' leadership on the situation around PAT "Odes Oil Processing Plant". The Gennady of Krivoschi to the executive duty of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to tax evasion and infringement of the requirements of effective legislation by the private shareholders of Victoria during the course of their business activity. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the investigation of the legality of land transfer in the village of Korman Sokirian district of Chernovets region and on the involvement of the head of the Sokirian district administration of Bespicup and the head of the Sokirian district council of Kozak. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-compliance with the Ukrainian State Budget 2017 Act in part of the restructuring of the debt that arose on January 1, 2017, following the decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State. Jaroslava Dubnević, until he was temporarily acting as Ukraine’s minister of health for centralized purchase and supply of artificial heart rhythm drivers. Jury Miroshnickenka to the National Police of Ukraine on the appeal of a citizen of Jarushkina for stealing funds from her doctor at the Institute of Cardiology of the Academy of Sciences of Stražeska Kowalem during the survey. Yurya Miroshnicka to the U.S. Attorney General's Office. Sorry. Jury Miroshnicka to the statement of a citizen of Sterbina, reporting a criminal offence committed by the investigator of the Fesenka Police Department of Nizhin. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of payment of pensions for July 2014 to residents of the Lugansk region population, located on the collision line. Maxime Chicken to Prime Minister of Ukraine for treatment with peritoneal dialysis. Alexia Lensky and Ruslan Solvara to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of citizens of the Constitution to a safe environment for life and health, the resolution of the situation in the Baranja region of the Žitomir region and the deterioration of the quality of drinking water in the communities of the area of Žitomir, the elimination of environmental risks from the unauthorized dumping of industrial wastes into the river of Gomorrah, and the verification of the inaction of control and control bodies. Roman Semenha to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Utilities, Head of Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Harkigaz" on clarifying issues related to the exercise of trust in gas counters. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, Minister of Justice for the free transfer of confiscated unrealized property. Groups of National Deputies (Larina, Danube, Pavlovka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-receiving of the sale of the whole property complex DP "Sanatorium for parents with children" of the town of Korstošev Žitomir district. Alexander Kirsch to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the installation of individual appliances for the calculation of natural gas in the large apartment buildings of the city of Harkov. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services to address the situation surrounding the purchase of natural gas by the National Aero-Space University of Žukovsky "Hark Air Institute". Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the organization of child health in 2017 and the adoption of the concept of the State targeted social program for the recovery and rest of children and the development of a network of children's health facilities. Irina Konstankevitch, head of the Ukrainian State Treasury Service for the payment of pensions according to the decisions of the courts to citizens living in radioactively polluted areas of the Volin region. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Wallin District State Administration, Head of the Road Service in Volinsky for the repair of the road area of Kamin-Kashirsky, the village of Rudka Chervinska Kamin-Kashir district of Volinsk. Olesia Long to the head of the Kyrovograd district government regarding the failure to eliminate educational and cultural institutions in Svetlodarsk. Lightwater, excuse me, and ensuring the rights of their employees. Romana Macola to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Hmelnicke District Road Service, on the urgent issue of financing the repair of the Hmělnice - Novoselica district district’s district of the Hmělnice, 4 kilometers long in an emergency and paralyzing passenger transport that violates the rights of residents and causes numerous inconveniences. Romana Macola, until the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, director of the Department of Health of the Hmelnick district public administration, to provide leukemia patients with medicines in the Hmelnick region. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for blocking access to the Court. Sergia Leschchenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, on anti-dumping measures for imports into Ukraine of certain nitrogen fertilizers. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of medical facilities in the Kyiv region of St. Dmitry Dobrodomov to the Dniprovo City Head, Head of State Architectural and Building Control of the Dniprov City Council on the Legality of the Construction of Buildings in Topol 2 Housing Area in Dnipro. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Zitomir City Head, Head of Building Management No. 3 of the Žitomir Housing and Exploitation Region of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer to communal property of residence No. 106 on the street of Zhitomir Zhitomir. Groups of National Deputies (Sporish, Veličkovica and others; only 9 of our colleagues) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the fraudulent actions of the Director of TOV "Volodar-agro" of Sukholithic Viktor. Groups of National Deputies (Katzer-Buchkowski, Gopko, others; only 17 of our colleagues) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to neutralize Ukraine's security of energy. Valeria Davidenka to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the head of the National Association of Milkers of Ukraine, Ukrapolprom, the Director of the Kulikovska Milk Private Shareholder Society, the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders' Association of the Ichnyava Dry Milk and Butter Plant, on the need to increase the price for the purchase of milk from private farmers. Anna Romanova to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the increase in the tourist flow between the People's Republic of China and Ukraine. Anton Heraszczenka to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the provision of documentation. Oleg Osuhovski to Henprokuror Ukraine to arrange for the prosecution authorities to comply with the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code. Oleg Osuhovski to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for conducting a pretrial investigation into the loss of Ukraine’s State budget. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the award of medical volunteers to the First Volunteer Mobile Hospital of Mikoko Pirogova. Alexander Suprunka to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the possible violation of environmental legislation by an enterprise operating in the region of the Darnicki district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for failure to take appropriate steps to restore the work of the preschool facility in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to serve as head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography, and cadastre for providing information on the status of the land area of 115.9 acres [115.9 ha] outside the village council of the Skuri district of Kyiv. Vassil Janickýk to head the Annual Village Council of the District of Ravenna, Head of the Annual District State Administration of the Plains Region, for the review of the general plan of the municipality of the city type of the Annual Plains region, taking into account the public interest. Vasil Janicki to Henprocuror of Ukraine regarding the inaction in the investigation of crimes of illegal possession and the destruction of state property at the State's "Krogrotechservis" in the Odessa region. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the expert and analytical follow-up to the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU to Ukraine's national legislation. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deterioration of the standard of living of citizens as a result of the increase in debt due to the payment of wages. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the timely acceptance of the limits on the use of hunting animals to the State Hunting Fund. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the border infrastructure and roads to the crossing points, the creation of new crossing points across the state border of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. People’s Deputies ( The father, Antonistka and others are only seven) to the head of the Lviv District Government for providing full information on the selection of the investor for the construction and operation of the complex from the disposal (reprocessing) of solid household waste in the Mikolai district of the Lviv region (in the area of the Split DHP "Sirka") and taking into account the opinion of local communities when it is carried out. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the financing of vocational and technical education institutions in the Lviv region, on the basis of an increase in the subsidy from the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. Andrija Illenka to the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railroad public stock company on the assignment of Lviv-Herson trains, Lviv-Novoleksiyivka, Kiev-Mikolayev. Igor Popov to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the development of a plan of action for the acquisition of Ukraine's NATO membership. Sergei Vlasenka to the editor-in-chief of the newspaper "Governmental Courier" about the release and distribution of state-owned material from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sergija Vlasenka to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for providing objective information on the Tribunal's decision at the Stockholm Chamber of Arbitration in the case of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine against Gazprom Pat. Andrija Vadaturski to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice, Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration on Failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017, in part of the restructuring of debt, which arose on 1 January 2017, following decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of one of the biggest problems of pension injustice in Ukraine, which is that for most ordinary "black" Ukrainian citizens, each month their official work after 1 July 2000 affects not the increase but the reduction in the size of the future pension. Vojtsick's Victoria to the head of the Ukrnaft Public Shareholders' Authority for the sale of drills under special permits for use of the nadrama. Victoria Vojtsicka to the CEO of DTEC on the monthly consumption of coal by Szelenergo's CHILD, Dniproenergo's CHILD, Westnergo's. Andrija Šinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a separate just order of appointment and the recalculation of pensions for all categories of civil servants in the course of pension reform. Andrija Šinkovic to the head of the Hmelnicki Road Service in the Hmelnicki Region, the head of the Bilogiri District State Administration of the Hmelnicki Region, the head of the Isiaslav Hmelnicki District Board, the head of the Krasilovskh Reich administration, the head of the Theophilopol District Administration, the head of the Bilogir Region Government, the head of the Izaslav Krasilovsk People's Board of Directors, the head of the Theofipol Soviet Authority of the Hmelnnitsk Region for the prioritization and harmonization of activities in the preparation of project and cost-benefit documentation for the implementation of separate road repairs in 2018 in Bilogirski, Izaslavski, Krasilovsk and Hmelniki district. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of the City of Chugoviv Kharkiv to the corresponding subsidy from the State Budget of Ukraine for subsidies to the population granted and guaranteed by the Law of Ukraine for housing and utility services. Dmitry Schencev to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the non-execution of the Ukrainian Pension Fund's decision to recalculate and pay disability pensions in accordance with articles 50, 54, 67 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sergey Rudika, head of the Cherka District State Administration, responsible for the duties of the Smilian City Head, the Kamyan City Head of the Cherkas region, the head of the Smilyan District Administration, the first deputy head of the Kamyan District Government of the Cherkas region to strengthen control over the use of the public budget funds foreseen for the socio-economic development of Kamyansk, Smilyanski, Cherka district, Kamyanka and Smil of the Cherkas region, and the need to ensure that public procurement procedures are carried out in compliance with the principles of transparency, non-discrimination and competitiveness. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, Director of the Department of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of the Kyiv City Administration for Predicting Financing in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for Project Works and Reconstruction of Pre-school Training Institute No. 364 in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Alexander Dehtirczuk and Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources for the Disbursement of Funds from the State of Ukraine for the Reconstruction of Cleanhouses, which result in the improper operation of the Iqua River in the Plains region. Vadim Yvchenk to Henprocuror of Ukraine, head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to halt illegal construction work and the exploitation of land on the Black Sea coast in the village of Križanovka of the Lyman district of Odessa, which threatens the lives and health of local residents and leads to the destruction of rural infrastructure. Groups of National Deputies (Buglaka, Barney, and others) Only 7 of our colleagues) to the first Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the Anti-Terrorism Centre at the Ukrainian Security Service, for the creation of a premeditated anti-terrorism centre for the maintenance and protection of children's rights in Ukraine. Sergija Melnika to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unfinished construction of a large apartment building on the street of Panas Mirno, 29/1 in the city of Hmelnitski. Melnik's Sergei to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide a steel cataclysm for Ukraine's internal market Alexander Dombrovski to commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Air Force for the establishment of an emblem for the crew of the name plane "Dmitro Mybroda" 456 brigades of the Air Force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Alexander Dombrovski, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, the head of the Vinnick district government, the head of the Vinnické oblasta, the Vinnické city head, the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Vinické region on the quality of drinking water in Winnicá. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Director of the Institute of Public Health of Marziyev, National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Public Association of the "Universal Union of the U.S. Medical Protection", Society for the Protection of the Rights of Patients "Health of the Nation", National Public Organization "Ukrainian Medical Association", Public Organization "The Civil Initiative "The Right to Health", Public Organization "Medicial Control and Protection of Rights" concerning the development of a program for the provision of medical supplies to severely ill people who introduce the procedure for the short term of medical care. Ruslan Solvar and Alexi Lensky to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the National Police, Head of the National Regulatory Service, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy on the settlement of the issue of the sale of alcoholic products to spills in places close to residential buildings. Groups of National Deputies (Vytka, Wesselovo, Artushenka) to Henprocuror on the facts of political corruption and the organization of the raiding of the commercial network "ABB" by the Ukrainian national deputy Sergey Rybalka. Paul Kishkar and Viktor Krivenk to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the illegal allocation of an apartment in the village of Mizgir Zacarpatsk. Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recalculation and payment of pensions and supplementary pensions to citizens who are affected by the CHAES accident. Jurija Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to increase the amount of educational, medical and additional subsidies from the State budget to pay the employees of the budgetary institutions of the region of Ivano-Frankov Region for 2017 and to provide for the cost of heat and energy supplies. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the construction of a sports swimming pool in the city of Supervirna Ivano-Frankowsk region on the basis of a subsidy from the State budget for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Victor Krivenk to the Dniprov City Head for the support of the Dniprov city organization of the All - Ukrainian Veterans Union. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Director General of the State concert "Ukroborprom" on providing information on the production and supply of military equipment to Ukraine. Mikhail Golka to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate on illegal construction in the city of Uzhgorod Zakarta. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the provision of information on statistics on the gas sector of Ukraine in 2008-2009. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for possible signs of corruption in the appointment of the Head of the Public Registration Authority of the Civil Status Act. Sergey Labazuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, to decide on the issue of the protection of the rights of candidates for judges and the proper provision of qualified personnel to the judiciary. Helen Sotnik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine to ensure a transparent competition for the Director of the Coordination Centre for Legal Assistance. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the reinstatement of pension payments to internally displaced persons who have registered for a new residence and have renounced the status of internally displaced persons. Andrija Kota to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the appointment of Vladislav Andronov as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the environmental situation in eastern Ukraine. Paul Djublik to the first Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food Policy of Ukraine for the improvement of the work of the branch of the Žitomir Regional Centre for Expertization of Plant Variety. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring parliamentary control of government activities regarding housing and utility subsidies, the amount of money provided for by the State budget of Ukraine, which remained unused for the current date and planned actions by the government on condition of their deficit. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Provincial District Administration for immediate assistance in the conduct of rapid intervention and treatment at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the promotion of an urgent cardiac valve replacement operation at the National Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery of the name Amos Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine at budgetary costs. Vladimir Parasuka to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Lviv region, Head of the Directorate-General for Veterinary Medicine, Head of State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine in the Lviv region, Head of the Directorate-General for Dergsaneservice in the Lviv region, Head of State Environmental Inspectorate in the Lviv region for the verification of the legality of the production of farm activities in the village of Cherniliv Yavorov district of Lviv. Jury Lewchenk is under the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to verify the possible commission of a crime, the officials of TOV "Browar Aluminium Plant". Yurya Levchenka to the Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Control of Kiev for the illegal construction of a cult building in Niveka Park in Shevchenkow district of Kiev, which led to the destruction of the land of the natural-indictment fund. Vasil Guljava to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Police for the violation of the rights and legitimate interests of the Public Organisation Anti-Corruption Movement of the South to receive a well-founded response to a request from the public authorities. Edouard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, on the need for an objective review of the collective appeal of the Kyiv District of Odessa to sign more than a thousand residents living in houses along the Ilfa and Petrova 10-A, 10-B, Marshall Žukov's Prospect 89-A, the Avenue of the Mouse Academy 30/2, and nearby houses to verify the legality of the forgetfulness of the Odessa, Ilfa and Petrova 12-A, and to prevent the destruction of the children's playground, the mini-futball stadium and the green zone. Edouard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, on the need for an objective review of the collective appeal of the labour force of the Usativ Rural Medical Clinic of the Biliai District Centre for Primary Health Care on the need to suspend the possible rotation of its management warehouse in order to preserve the profile of the establishment and the labour team of the Usatian Rural Medical Clinic of the general practice of family medicine. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the provision of information on the final owners and the place of registration of legal persons who were selling compressed gas and who became the subject of an investigation into the Ukrainian Security Service. Ruslana Demczak to the editor-in-chief of the "33rd Channel" newspaper on the non-execution of the MP's request from 19 May 2017 on the ground of correcting the inaccuracies of information about me as the national deputy of Ukraine, posted in the newspaper "33rd Channel" No. 20 from 10 May 2017. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Social Affairs of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the Nemirov branch of the Vinnicki Social Rehabilitation Centre of Children with Disabilities "The Flash". Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for additional funding for the work of the staff of the State Vocational and Technical Training Institute, West Dniprov Centre for Vocational and Technical Education. Yurya Bereza until the temporary duty of Ukrainian Health Minister for the absence of any forms of disability in the medical establishments of Krivy Rig. Roberta Gorvato to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the implementation of Directive 2014/45/EU on the guarantee of safe movement by means of national means of transport, both in Ukraine and within the EU, of mutual recognition of the results of checks on the feasibility of operation between EU Member States and Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Gorvat, Jury and others) Only 4 of our colleagues) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to encourage the development of energy-efficient and environmentally friendly transport in Ukraine. Nina Southanina to the head of the National Anti - Corruption Agency of Ukraine regarding the representation in a declaration of a person authorized to perform functions as a State or as a local government, as well as reports of significant changes in the property status of the subject of the declaration of educational and expenditure related to ensuring the viability of the declarants and loved ones. Dear colleagues, we have published with you and read all the 239 requests that have been registered in the secretariat for this time and have reached the presidency. And also now we have a few appeals from Ukrainian national deputies who have expressed dissatisfaction with the answers that have come to them from various institutions and public authorities. I remind you that the National MP, once he has announced the answer to the MP's request, has the right to speak with a reply, to give an assessment of the answer, that's in three minutes, that's part two of article 226 of the Rules. However, it is necessary to submit an application the day before. And we have two of these right now, three of these allegations of discontent. Four. Dear colleagues, we have four such appeals from our colleagues. I'm continuing our session now until 12:15. And please, Yuri Pavlovenko. I can't see. Please, Sergey Lechchenka. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Indeed, I have been asked by the Ukrainian government and the Ministry of Finance to block what is going on, and this is done by the hands of the Ukrainian Special Forces. At first it was scraped gas, now it's horse alcohol, and so on and so forth. What our service does is why at a time when Ukraine is suffering from aggression by the Russians, when Russian security forces in the centre of Kiev are being killed with impunity, especially important witnesses, people who are supposed to be witnesses in the lead against Yanukovich, at this time the service is wasting its time and resources, but absolutely openly ordering things. My request was for imports of horse alcohol, which is blocked, starting on February 8th by a letter from the Department of "K" BSB, which is headed by the Odyssey Girl, who is being investigated for illegal enrichment by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Similarly, the same Demchina, who heads the Department of K in the BSC, used to set up a "cut-off years" for the importers of compressed gas. The result of this fight is that Medvedczuk's share of the market for clumped gas and its company Glusco increased from 1 percent to 25 percent. So the security forces are getting the opportunity to make money in the Ukrainian market for the best man of Russian President Putin. Is it normal at all when, in conditions of completely uncontrollable aggression in the East, the Special Forces spend time coming in search of an investment company as it did with Dragon Capital, spending time and resources on making worthless protocols on corruption on Julia Maruszewski, who will then win in the courts and will even voluntarily return this money to the Ukrainian State. It's 500 bucks, I mean, it's done by the Special Forces. Is it normal to spend time in a war to have funky rallies under the house of anticorruption activist Vitalia Shabunin when there are fabulous protestors coming for an SBU tip and trying to personally attack him? Is it normal to do so when Ukraine suffers from outright aggression by Russians in the East? Of course, this is not normal, and this indicates that Ukrainian intelligence is a tool for the execution of political orders and the instrument for the achievement of political powers, and for the incumbent President of Dustenk. I want you all to be brought back to the speech by the head of the U.S. FBI Komi, who said that during all the years of the Obama presidency, he had only spoken to him twice. Because he thinks the FBI should be independent. And, as he retired, when he felt pressure from the new President Trump and it was now the cause of loud investigations in America and around the world. Why do Ukrainian intelligence remain a tool to ensure that Ukrainian leadership achieves its own rather than its national goals? This statement is a request for Ukrainian intelligence, please stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u71	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u72	Stop doing political orders and do what you're made to do and what you're getting money for in all of us Ukrainian taxpayers. Fighting Russian aggression, with diversans, with Russian security forces inside the country, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u73	Thank you. I invite you to the word of the next disgruntled national MP, Sergey Kaplin, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u74	Please. The great fellow citizens, the great fellow citizens, I ask you to stop the debate among the national deputies on the purpose of visiting gay paradisaics and listening to the national MP. The great citizens, after the victory of ordinary people in Maidan, after our incredible expectations of reforming the law-enforcement system, Ukraine has witnessed the failure of ordinary Ukrainians to ensure security for their families. The assignment of the interior minister of Habakkuk led the country to a security collapse, leading the country to irresistibility and inadmissibility. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking the People's Front representatives to calm down. After events in the Princes, events taking place throughout the country, you and I have the moral and political right to demand the resignation of Habakkuk. However, because of the quota principle that prevails today in Ukrainian politics, through which the General Prosecutor's Office appoints First Deputy to the Watch Tower, who guards the Ukrainian law from Arsenius Yatsenuk and the political power he leads, because of the quota principle that is universally implemented in all power organs, in all district administrations, in state-owned enterprises and which is a guarantee of full-scale corruption in our country, we now have a further penetration of this corruption, particularly political, into the Supreme Council. I did not once address the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office, so that all the crimes committed by Habakkuk and his team, this mobster, were punished by the owners of this rod and this mob gang. However, no meaningful answer was raised after such an appeal. I ask the Attorney General personally to come to the hall and report all 2,000 200 cases to the Jacinyuk and Yatsenuk, Habakkuk and others, Arsenija Yatsenyuk, and to stop covering political corruption in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. Only if we unite with the Ukrainian people in the fight against this corruption can we start a new era and era of the development of our nation. Otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, thank you for your statement. I address, first of all, all dissatisfied with the answers, to focus on the answers in your trailers, on the answers from those structures, not on the political statements, as required by the Rules. That's the first one. And secondly, I want to ask all the authorities to give satisfactory answers to the requests of the Ukrainian national deputies so that we don't have to use the rostrum for dissatisfaction. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we announce a recess because Matthew and Pauline are not in the session room right now, those who are not yet satisfied with the answers that they came with. And in exactly 30 minutes, 12:30. At 12:40 a.m., we meet with you, and we will have the opportunity with you to address all the deputies under the heading "from different issues". I'm asking you not to be late for the request and the entries in this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Every Friday we have the potential only for performances under the heading "Rizzne". So I'm asking you to go back to the session room of all those who want to participate in the recording right now on the cover of "Variance." And please, Your Honor, I'm announcing a recording of the national MPs' speeches on various issues. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Igor Popov. Dear colleagues, we have six minutes with you now to listen to the leader of the Radical Party, Mr. Laska. Please. [[Applause]] No, no, it's not a theater, it's a parliament. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u77	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Perhaps you don't like hearing what the Radical Party MPs are saying, but I am sure that the voice of Lasha, the voice of my team, is the voice of millions of Ukrainians. Because we're telling the truth! We tell the truth about what today’s authorities are doing. I want to demonstrate to the whole country: this is a memorandum of praise with the International Monetary Fund signed by President Poshenko, Prime Minister Groysman, Minister of Finance Daniluk and head of Nitzbank Gontareva. This memo was signed in Kiev on March 2, 2017. And I'm saying that it's according to this memorandum that our authorities are running what's called a pension, so-called "medical," so-called "earthly" reform. In fact, these reforms are not in the interests of the Ukrainians, and these reforms are being carried out — specifically, reforms are called reforms, because they are not really reforms — these so-called reforms are being undertaken to implement a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund and to obtain another loan from the International Monetary Fund. Who are affected by pension reform? Who is involved in medical reform? Who are affected by land reform? It applies to every Ukrainian. But the authorities were secretly preparing these documents, and then we forced them, through the court, when we went to court, to publish this secret memo. And what did we see there? The key task of these so-called reforms is to reduce the expenditure of the state budget on the education sector, on the health sector, on pensions, and that is the whole truth of these reforms. Because when we ask the authorities what will be the pension of the people when they are 35 years of age due to your reforms, the authorities cannot answer that question. They cannot because they are afraid to tell the truth. And we know the truth about retirement. No matter how many people retire, they'll be just as much as they are today. Because in order for our pensioners to have a normal pension that allows them to live, we have to raise their salaries because pensions are paid out of pension contributions. And today, when millions of Ukrainians get paid in cash, the very simple question for a high school student is what will be the pension. It's just as much money as it is money. So instead of raising retirement age, the authorities have to raise pensions because of a radical increase in wages. That's why the Radical Party faction has doubled the minimum wage. Since the new year, we have achieved this: 3,200 is the minimum wage. But that's not enough. That's why we want the minimum wage to be set at 5,000 dollars per month to be paid officially, not in an envelope. Because when wages are paid in envelopes, people don't have contributions to the Pension Fund and as a result, they don't have pensions. And then there are millions of people who have worked their whole life, but they don't have the necessary work, they don't have the insurance, they don't have pensions, they don't have 947 bucks a month. And that's why, when the government is telling us that they're going to retire from October of the month, we don't need to be fooled: money is due to a minimum wage increase, an extra 11 billion dollars, there's a pension fund budget. All the possibilities to raise pensions now are, first of all, half a million people who get so-called 947 dollars of pensions that no one can live on. Next: recalculation, modernisation of pensions, when millions of people are 30, 40, 50 years of employment, and receive the same pensions as those who have not worked all their lives. And finally, this is a radical increase in pensions so that people can make ends meet, not live on taxes: housing subsidies or a free medicine program that we've been trying to get adopted, but unfortunately, it's not working today. In many areas we get signals that people don't give them medicines for free. I'm talking to the Ukrainians: inform us, specific pharmacies, pharmacies, the addresses of these pharmacies, where they don't give free medicine, and we'll make sure that this program works. Another affair that took place yesterday was the first reading of the so - called medical reform. Is it against medical reform, the Radical Party? No, because the kind of medicine we have today cannot go on living like this. Does the government offer real reform? No, the authorities want people to pay for all the services. Today they pay illegally and tomorrow they pay legally. Is this a reform? Millions of people, especially in rural areas, especially pensioners, will simply lose access to medical services because they do not have money. So our understanding, our alternative to a government pensioner, a medical burglar, is to establish a mandatory state insurance policy for medical and voluntary health insurance, so that it is not at the expense of the people, but at the expense of government insurance programs. And the third affair that the authorities want to pursue is that of our land. We will lay bones, but we will not let the earth be torn apart and the Ukrainians become beggars.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u78	Please welcome Sergey Vlasenko. Six minutes, too. Then. There his colleagues pass on to him the word that has been written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, this week a lot of attention was paid to the 2009 gas contract. I can't say. You know, unfortunately, a huge pile of lies was poured out through all the channels of control, television channels and the work of the Timoshenko government, and, directly, about the 2009 gas contract. The basic lie, the basic deception, the basic lie that people are talking about. People, this is what seems to have been the highest price under this contract in Europe. I have in my hands the official help of Naftogazu Ukraine, which I received at my parliamentary request, with prices for gas per year and per month. So I want to point out that, according to this reference, by the way, according to the verdict that Yanukovic forged against Timoshenko, but even Yanukovic couldn't come up with a gas price of more than $232,98 for 2009 for Timoshenko. By the way, according to this reference to Naftogazu, no day -- no day -- I emphasize this -- Ukraine didn't get 500 gas, all of which Janukovich's rashes were talking about, and now they're repeating the representatives of Prashenko and all of whom Peter Prashenko is speaking this lie. By the way, I heard a speech yesterday by the President, whom I personally consider to be the biggest corruption in the Ukrainian state, the biggest Ukrainian thief and thief I've ever told, with whom. He thinks Timoshenko's government has given up national interests, something else has been done. But I have a simple question. Peter Alexiyovich, why did you stand on your knees in tears and tears and ask to work in this government? Why did you work in this government as a foreign minister if it was such a bad government? As for the price of gas. By the way, I have another clue. This is a study by Polish gas experts in 2011: Ukraine: $309, neighbouring Poland: $420, France: $399, Germany: $379. Once again, Ukraine is $309! So unfortunately, it's all a complete lie that's pouring into your ears from all the controlling authorities of television channels. I can see the face of Victor Fedorovich, who spoke all the same words that used all the same epithets that told all the same stories with only one purpose: to put Julia in prison and discredit Volodymyrian Timoshenko. But truth always prevails. There was a decision by the European Court of Human Rights, which clearly established political motives, persecution, order character, and the deliberate nature of these accusations. By the way, some colleagues today comment on the Stockholm Arbitration decision. And I have a simple question for all of you: who saw him in the eyes, that is the decision, and who read it? Do we, as in the old anecdote of little Guido, who sang to someone named Caruso, tell us what bad singing Caruso is? I'm asking NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to publish, first of all, the lawsuit they filed. And every Ukrainian will see that the legal basis for the lawsuit is paragraph 4.4 of the Timoshenko contract. I demand that the decision be published as soon as it is fully available. And each of you will see that the "take or pay" principle has been cancelled because in 11 years there was an antimonopoly investigation of the European Union, which were the lawsuits of Poland, which had the same contract. There were calls made by Slovakia, which had the same contract. There were calls made by Germany that had the same contract. There were calls from the Czech Republic that had the same contract. And this principle of "take, but pay, or pay" was cancelled in appropriate arbitration or pre-arbitration procedures. So, dear fellows, let's not be like the writers in the Soviet Union: "The Pasternaka didn't read, but I condemn." Let's take a look at these decisions, because the president of the highest rostrum says, "The Stockholm Arbitration Decision has been established." Peter Alexiovich, have you read it? Or you're like that again. Will you support it as the Kharkiv Agreements you have supported, saying that this is the craftsmanship of compromise and the best compromise that Janukovich has achieved, at a time when your present brothers have been bleeding here, in the Supreme Council? So unfortunately, it's all a huge-great-great manipulation and huge propaganda that has two goals. The first goal is to steer clear of the fact that there is no reform in the country, that there is a campaign instead of reforms that continues to impoverish the Ukrainians. Note their logic. They increased the tariffs ten times unwarrantedly — Timoshenko’s fault. Look at your 9th year payments and look at your payments today. They tell you that they don't buy Russian gas for three years, that this contract hasn't worked for three years. By the way, if this contract had worked, today's gas price would have been $180. And you, the citizens of Ukraine, sell this gas for 285, including the Ukrainian gas, which should actually cost you 80 dollars. It's sold to you by 285. So, actually, once again, this is all a huge lie and manipulation to distract attention from the corruption that is, from the destinies of the earth, from the impoverishment of Ukrainian citizens, from low pensions, from what is happening no reform, from what is growing from what is happening to crime, from what no one is struggling with, from what is unfortunately speaking, that we are going to Europe, unfortunately from the point of view of government, from the point of view of the functioning of the state, we are returning to the dark Byzantine of the Middle Ages. At a time when freedom of speech is collapsing, when the President usurps media, when the President tries to usurp political activity. So look, remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u80	Please. I thank you for your performance. And the next one from the People's Front is the People's Deputy, Mr. Kirsch. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lack of funding for the "Available Drugs" software for residents of the city of Kharkiv. In particular, in the 10th City Clinic, in May, underfunding for more than 50,000 dollars, resulting in patients suffering from diabetes being unable to receive daily life-saving drugs, such as diabetes, diabetes. It is worth noting that the drugs themselves are, but there is a lack of adequate and timely funding for their purchase. The sick cannot wait, for it is a matter of life and death. Also in March at 10th, an ultrasonic device came out of order, resulting in thousands of people in Kharkiv not being able to get a proper diagnostic. This part of the speech is also an official appeal to the Ukrainian minister of health. The second problem is also life-sustaining, but it already applies to all financial enterprises in Ukraine, not just those in treatment. In view of the fact that software products from accounting have been authorized and are currently not fully used by Ukraine’s budgetary institutions, there is an urgent need for a quality and affordable Ukrainian product. I propose that, as the accounting community requires, urgently and urgently, consider the possibility of introducing the Fit-Budget software for the Ukrainian budgetary institutions, developed by a group of Factor companies in my district in Kharkiv. So that's what my voters did. Fit Budget is a completely Ukrainian product developed in modern technology based on the single window, taking into account the real needs of the budget accountant. In the ideology and architecture of Fit Budget, it is possible to integrate into the future ecosystem of e-budget management and documentation. The product has cloud technology that does not depend on the power of the computer and does not require installation. This enables us to quickly implement and service it throughout the country without the involvement of technical experts. There's no such thing anymore. The database is located in data centers in Ukraine in host companies that have all the security certificates available. Database transfer is done using encrypted protocols. Protecting data allows the system to limit access rights, to control the location of the connection of the audit system. It is important that the system uses its architecture for free but reliable and tested components that allow for considerable cost. This part of the appeal is also an official request to the State Treasury. It would seem a bit of a different problem, but they are united by the fact that they relate to budget companies and both of these problems are life-support for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, may I present our colleague from the People's Front of the People's Party, Mr. Guzai? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u83	Good afternoon, dear friends! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. First of all, I want to address the Volinians as a Volinian, as an MP representing an area. The point of the matter. Behold, the venerable inhabitants of Covell, Volodymira, Novovolinska, Lucca, other regions, cities, towns, towns! I'm asking you a question. Please tell me, do we have any areas in the area that are better or worse? I don't think they're here. We all have to be in roughly equal conditions. Now I'm talking about a story. There's this State Regional Development Fund. The state is spending on socio-cultural projects in the area, in various areas, and in particular ours. This year, the Volin region received 113 million dollars. Now, pay attention! The commission led by poor Governor Gunchik, who has spread out to the end, where the vast majority of his officials are subordinated, has divided the 113 million dollars in the area. Various communities, cities, towns, villages, and villages offered projects. Now, pay attention! Of these 113 million dollars, Kovelski constituency No. 21 received 46 percent of the funds. My constituency number 19 won 4 percent of the money. Now the question is, where is justice? I want my voters to know now. The distinguished inhabitants of the Ivanichov region, Vladimir Volinsky, Ljubomlski, the inhabitants of Volodymyr, Novovolinsk, this commission led by the governor of BPP, who willfully does everything possible to ensure that my electorate receives much less money than everyone else, constantly puts sticks in the wheels. I want you to know that this person is doing everything he can to keep schools, kindergartens, cultural houses, roads in my district from getting paid. I understand when, for example, someone gets 25 percent, someone gets 15 percent; someone gets 30, someone gets 27; someone gets 40, someone gets 35. People are good, one district gets 46 percent, and my constituency is 4. This is a disgraceful revenge on the head of the district administration for my principled position. I want the wankers to know that. And I'm going to ask Mr. Groysman to reconsider the decision of this committee. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u84	Heroic glory! Please welcome national MP Mikhailo Golovko. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u85	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th constituency, Ternopolish. Dear voters, I would like to raise an important subject that, I believe, we cannot accept such a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has once again put an experiment on the Ukrainian people. They started this experiment on October 1, 2016 on the abolition of government regulation of food prices, these are food products that go into the basket of essential foods for, first of all, it's flour, Greek, sugar, milk and so on. But this basket, which is the one most affected by low-income Ukrainians, is those Ukrainians who do not have enough money to live in a decent and dignified country today. Unfortunately, according to the United Nations, more than 60 percent of the population in Ukraine — those who are outside the poverty line. And it was a shame that this experiment, which ran over the Ukrainians, showed a sharp rise in the price of the first-response products, food and food, and showed an increase in prices over 78 percent over the last year for these food products, showed that 10 and even 20 times the rate of inflation. Unfortunately, we're seeing a further increase in prices not just for food, it's utilities, for electricity, for gas, and so on, for medicine. And accordingly fewer Ukrainians are allowing themselves to have a normal, decent life and a good diet. But I was shocked by the fact that on June 7th of yesterday, at the cabinet meeting of the Ministers by decree 349, they decided once and for all to cancel the government's regulation of prices for goods of primary necessity, food. This was practically signed by the genocide of the Ukrainian people, which would lead to even greater poverty. This experiment on people, we think, is shameful. The government is pushing for a bigger breakthrough, and our people are practically leaving it unattainable because this will lead to a sharp price hike, and I want to point out that for the first time in years, the last years in the spring, where goods and summers, goods, excuses, products, and in this case, fruits and vegetables should fall at price, they have grown. I mean, 36 percent vegetables and 40 percent fruits, that's not acceptable in springtime, when today is the season, that's the price increase. That is to say that this policy of Groisman, the government of Groisman, is criminal to the Ukrainian people. Today, it is unacceptable to leave Ukrainians with no means of subsistence, to raise food prices, first - necessity foods, medicines, and other commodities. We demand that the "Freedom All-Ukrainian Union" cancel this decree immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u86	Please come to the floor. Thank you, colleague, and Natalie Novak is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Natal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u87	Dear Ukrainian people, honourable deputies. Yesterday, more than 80 deputies signed a petition to the President of Ukraine regarding an illegal blockade near the Greek-Catholic Patriarch. And they asked the President to intervene on the issue of gross disregard for the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine guarantees the protection and preservation of cultural heritage (art. 54), which is safe for human life and health (art. 50), and also requires the use of property that will not harm humans and society. The left bank of the Dniper River, according to the Water Code (art. 89) and the Earth Code (art. 61), is, Dnipro is a large river and there should be water protection strips over 100 meters away. But by ignoring the legislation, others began to build more than 100 meters [100 m]. When the Greek-Catholic Church in the 1990s applied to the authorities that granted construction permits, they were banned from building more than 100 meters, and the environmental authority said that the 100 meters security area here, but unfortunately, we have the law and the Constitution are not the same for everyone, it has a selective character. These lands have been allowed to privatize, although they should not be privately owned under the law, and the decisions of Kyivrads have illegally changed the purpose. Thus, the major, urban, and general plans were not amended, and the city’s foundations were not prepared, so the land according to the Earth’s cadastre is now the land of the Water Fund, the land of the Dnipro River’s protection strips. What did the builders then do? They're going to change the river, they've made such a fictional reference that it's not a big river, it's a middle river. Before, let's say, the honors of our organs of the State Agency, we've come to the conclusion that all the tributaries, bays, streams of the great river are the lands of the Great River Water Fund. But unfortunately, today, despite the fact that the Greek-Catholic Church, the Ministry of Ecology, the community, won two courts that overturned the decision of the Kyiv City Council, which they wanted to reduce the Dnipra water lanes. Nevertheless, construction continues, construction conditions have been issued, construction permits have been granted, despite existing legislation, and there are signs of criminal crime. That's why we're addressing the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u88	Give me 30 seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u89	To the President of Ukraine, to stop the illegal construction and halt illegal construction on the left bank of Dnipra will be an example of the restoration of the rule of law and justice guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. More than 80 members of the Supreme Council signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Natalia. As you know, in order to request the President, there is a need for a vote. But I'm asking you to make a speech by Mrs. Novak's distinguished colleague as a reference and to refer him to the Ukrainian President's Administration. Thank you very much. And I invite Mrs. Suslov to the floor. Please, Mr. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u91	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! We, the Ukrainian national MPs, are outraged by the use of force against our colleague of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Royal Kingdom on June 2, 2017, in Odessa. The unknown attacked her with greenery, which according to medical experts led to the chemical burns of eyelids and antlers. We believe that in a democratic state, such cases are unacceptable. We represent completely different political forces, but the only ones in one, post-mixing society must develop in a civilized way, demonstrate European values, respect for human rights, apply only legitimate mechanisms of expression. We condemn any attempt to act in a force field and warn everyone of similar temptations. We are drawing the attention of Ukrainian politicians to an unprecedentedly high level of social tension, and we urge them not to impose public activists on political opponents. Today you use violence, and tomorrow it can be applied to you. The absence of the siege of violence will provoke further violence, which is extremely dangerous in a war - torn country. Regrettably, such experiences are not unique. On June 8, 2017, Igor Lapin's National Front destroyed the property of a national MP and set the car of his family on fire in Lutsk. Thus, if even national MPs, with enhanced security assurances and authority, become targets of force attacks, it does not simply destroy the parliamentary function of representative, it gives rise to the defiance of ordinary citizens in guarantees of the State’s protection of their constitutional rights. We appeal to the head of the National Police, Mr. Knyazev, to give a proper legal assessment of the attack on Nardep Natalia Krávsky and to bring the guilty to justice. I would like the chairman to consider our request to the Minister of Internal Affairs, and I would like to read out the names of the colleagues who signed the request. This is Suslova Irina Mikolayevna, Červakova Olga, Sergey Lešchenko, Zaleschuk Svetlana, Skrum Alona, Litwin Volodymir, Rosenblat Borislav, Prodan Oksana, Novak Natalija and Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u92	Thank you, colleague. And please, no reply, no offense to us yet, thank God, for now. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u93	Dear Ukrainians! The presentation is dedicated to how the third year of the Presidium of Dustenka is actually a total oligarchic conspiracy between the current head of state and Ukraine's most oligarch of Rinath Ahmut. You know, Ahmetov was the architect of the Yanukovich regime, he brought him to power once, led him to power the second time, got everything he wanted for his presidency: energy, Skrutelek and so on. And now the interesting numbers that you probably don't know about because they don't talk about at the talk show. Do you know, dear Ukrainians, that in May of this year, Child Ahmtova receives two bracelets for a kilowatt-hour of thermal energy? Do you know that a year ago they were given less than one bracelet per kilowatt-hour of heat-generating electricity. So in one year, all Ukrainian consumers pay twice as much as the energy produced by the most famous Ukrainian oligarch, who has to pay for our expenses with you, for the money we pay, for his flat in London for $220 million, probably the utilities there are very high. Therefore, all Ukrainians must be willing to pay their own money to support this oligarchy clan. Do you know, dear Ukrainians, that DTEK will import $95 a ton of coal from its mines in Russia? While it is cheaper to bring coal from South Africa, according to a prominent energy expert and former member of Governor Andrew Gerus. Do you know, dear Ukrainians, that Rinat Ahemtov's "Naftogazavanje" has now become the subject of the most famous oligarchic agreement with the current President Prašenk? In particular, the investigation of the so - called Samoweck case has been blocked, and no progress has been made. I have in my hands the address of Oleg Seminski, former head of the company, where he reported how he was kidnapped and spent 3.5 years hostage. I quote, "After my arrest, I was hard, and I was on the verge of life and death, repeatedly losing consciousness. For three years and four months, I spent time in a hole with my hands tied, always in a mask, with my ears muffled, not seeing sunlight or human faces. I was released from captivity only in 2015." Follow-up to these facts was discovered. He was led by a well - known odious investigator named Dmitri Sus. And as established by the investigation, this is even stated in court rulings. That the kidnapping of Oleg Seminsky, which led to the distribution of Naftogazravanje, was ordered by Mikola Rudzkowski, and the organizers of the crime were Jerynak, nicknamed "Moldovan" and Salavatom, nicknamed "Salavat". According to Seminsky, Salavatov is a criminal authority close to Rinat Ahmtov. And this case in Ukraine is now blocked because there is the most unsuspecting and most corrupt oligarchic conspiracy on one side of President Poshenko, on the other, the oligarch of Ahmedov. And, of course, this must all be the subject of an investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u94	Please give the next speech by the national MP Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u95	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! Almost three years ago, the Ukrainian people entrusted us with the right to run the national economic complex, which we passed on the right first to one government, then to another. What do we see? These governments run this complex, but for the benefit of a variety of oligarchs and officials who have long since left the boundaries of our daughter. Cynicism has reached the point of robbing everything, such as the name of one of the examples. This robbery is ours. Our land, the city of Kyiv as the minister of agrarian politics, who, after receiving letters and evidence from me in 40 minutes, wrote an application for an exit. About your release. It's a land that's been looted almost. At first there were four and a half acres [4.5 ha], then six acres [6 ha], on the way out of Kiev to the cabanas. And I'm asking the D.A. and the M.E.S.A. to look into this case, and also the N.A.U.U.U.U.U.U.U.U., and count it as my MP's request. But the whole cynicism, the peak of cynicism, was yesterday when they voted for the medical reform they were trying to bring through the profiling committee. Then, when our boys stood by and died in units, the minister himself said that thousands died every day. Thousands of Ukrainian citizens! It's coming. The health of the nation and its future are at stake. On the one hand, it is the health of the nation, and on the other hand, it is 80 billion dollars to be sprayed. It's an omudsman who's going to be chosen, it's still lion's garbage, it's all been put on horseback. And we see what that led to. And it will. So everyone, remember what was done yesterday and where the beginning was set. But, Ukrainian people, rest assured, we stand firm, and everyone who has been involved in the death of the Ukrainian nation will hang on the gallows and burn in hell.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the chairman, received a request from National MP Boris Tarasyuk, to make a 30 - second observation on how to conduct the session. Please. Boris Tarasyuk, there's a complaint about order of conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u97	Thank you. Ma'am, I'm asking you to get in order in the hall so that the clowns known don't interfere with the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I very much ask that we, now, all those who have already had the opportunity to speak out of the "Virgin," have the opportunity to speak out of the "Virgin" and to honor each other. Please, I beg of you. Please! I invite you now to the floor of our distinguished colleague of the Self-Help faction, Mr. Sidorovich. Please, Mr. Sidorovich. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm asking very much for the opportunity of an honorary colleague from Self-Help to perform in the same level playing conditions as anyone who had three or six minutes in this room. Thank you very much, my distinguished European and Ukrainian colleagues. Please, please, Mr. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u99	Thank you for your word. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to raise a topic that, in fact, has not so far come up from the parliamentary rostrum, but should have been. In 1995, Ukraine became a member of the Council of Europe. In 1997, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights was ratified. And this little booklet actually contains all the most important, fundamental rights that Ukraine has undertaken to protect. But what do we have today? To this day, we have, unfortunately, an extremely lamentable situation. All the rights guaranteed by this convention, this right to a fair trial, this right to freedom of peaceful meetings, this right to respect human dignity, this is a lot of other rights, without which no human being, including every Ukrainian, can lead a decent life, these things are unfortunately not being realized. In 2006, Ukraine passed the Law on the Implementation and Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In 2006, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, a government-authorized, established office for decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. What has changed since then? But virtually nothing, as of today, Ukraine has unfortunately taken a sad leadership – second position in the Council of Europe on non-compliance with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Some 10,000 cases that are being monitored by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, think about the figure, a thousand 296 - refer to Ukraine, only 123 cases have been removed from monitoring. Moreover, the government empowered by the European Court of Human Rights rulings does not even know the full range of decisions it will make. This week, Parliament was considering for the first time a bill aimed at implementing a decision of the European Court of Human Rights on the prohibition of strikes. But please tell me, is this the biggest problem? Of course, Ukrainian civil servants should have the right to strike freely, but we have a lot of other problems: the right to a fair trial that is not implemented according to the quasi of judicial reform, which actually has a total social discredit as of today. That's why I have a requirement for a government authority: to come to the Parliamentary Hall and to report to Parliament and to the entire Ukrainian people, that Ukraine and what the government is going to do to ensure that those guarantees that are enshrined in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights are implemented in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u100	Thank you. And now to the word, the National Deputy of Self-Help, Alona Babak. Please, Your Honor, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u101	Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, today Naftogaz Ukraine published its annual report for 2016. It says that gas production was a profitable activity, and 15.3 billion Naftogaz received this particular segment: gas production. If you and I analyze the amount of production, we can say that 1 thousand 47 dollars in every thousand cubes of gas is a net profit. In this context, we are today referring to the self-help alliance, a very serious fiscal problem associated with the housing subsidy program. Today, in 5 months of this year, the government budget for this year is fully exhausted under the grant program. We already have 47 billion dollars in grants, which means we've exhausted the annual budget in five months. The government owes 35 billion dollars to utilities today, before the mergers of coowners, who are also recipients of these subsidies for their citizens who live in their homes. Today, we have heard from the head of the government that 15 billion dollars are being prepared to be added to the hall in order to vote on an increase in the grant budget. So this year we're going to have 62 billion subsidies planned for our businesses. Respectable citizens! We're talking about 62 billion dollars being in non-monetary calculations and in the form of mutual concerns in our budget. This has to stop. This is an unprecedented situation where 62 billion dollars will be spent clearing a barter that we have been refusing for many years. It has to be a cash account of such a huge, grand sized article. It is also important to note the critical nature of the government’s fiscal discipline in fulfilling its obligations under subsidies. Disengagement of TEC-6 in Kiev because of this and the corresponding lack of hot water in the summer of the city of Kiev is only the first layer of problems that now arise in housing and utilities and are linked to the failure to fulfil the obligations of the state. 1.2 billion Kiyevenergo was owed by the State for subsidies, that is, people who also pay the full cost of services and grant recipients in Kiev today have been deprived of the public service of hot water through government debt. Dear colleagues! I'm going to the National Deputies today. We shouldn't allow the government today just to increase the budget by 15 billion without a 100 percent monetization of subsidies and the cessation of any mutual concerns.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Babak. And now Mr. Sobolev Yegor is invited to the floor. Which Yegor Sobole from Self-Help. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u103	I want to inform citizens as officials who have to be held accountable for top-corruption, they continue to fight for their impunity. Under attack by the Anti-Corruption Bureau. This week on the committee, we were once again trying to recommend that we appoint without any discussion an auditor of the Anti-Corruption Bureau one of the Ukrainians for a very clear reason: to release the director of the bureau, who became the head of the first investigation group in Ukraine, which had reached the top-corruption workers. I want to say that we have blocked this initiative, and as long as I am the chairman of the committee, I will not let the independence of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, which was created by this Parliament, which I am very proud of with my colleagues. Big effort is being made and a lot of money is being invested to challenge the director of the Anticorruption Bureau with the anticorruption prosecutor. One is told that the great pianist, he's trying to steal everything: all the laurels, all the glory, "and you have to take control of it." Another is told that he's taking the money, "all the things you're investigating, he's selling Granowski, Connonka to someone else." And in this way, they try to create mistrust and destroy the much-needed cooperation between the Anti-Corruption Office and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. I ask both Artema Sitnik and Nazar of the Cold to make every effort not to allow this plan to happen. The work of the anti - corruption agency is completely ruined. Today, Ruslan Ryabosapka resigned. In fact, the agency has not been able to make any decisions for the first month. It was not even able to verify the Prime Minister's declaration, which was filed by one of the first top owners in October of last year. This declaration has not yet been verified, not to mention the presidential declarations, the national MPs. In general, no declaration by any of the top-owners, even the one given last year, is yet to be verified by the agency. And big, big attempts are made to avoid voting for the Anti-Corruption Court Act. The law we have passed is still February 1st, not yet put to the vote of the Council. I want to tell all the people, including the people in this room who think I'm calling for a revolution, I'm calling for a rebellion, I'm calling for anxiety -- that's what leads to revolution. Yanukovic was the greatest contributor to the revolution against him, Yanukovic and his family. Let's go along a civilized parliamentary path, make the right decisions, starting with the Law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u104	Please, the next Sporish MP. Just a lot of speakers. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u105	And, certainly, protecting the independence of the Anticorruption Bureau, the Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office, and the Agency against corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u106	Please, National Deputy Ivan Sporish. Your word, Your Honor, from "Peter Dustock's Block." You're arguing, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u107	You're arguing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u108	You're arguing. Excuse me, Mr. Ivan. It's Friday, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u109	Deputy Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I would not want us to pray for sins from this rostrum today, as some people do. I don't want us to get into a fight in this rostrum today, and again, some kind of collapse is happening in Ukraine. I'd like us to think for Ukraine every time, think for the children, think for ourselves. Especially as the head of my family’s subcommittee, youth policy, and childhood, I wanted more children to rest during the summer. I would also like to remind you that our channels, the news, are talking about the fact that the baby was wounded in Donetsk again. I'd like most of you to speak from this rostrum. I would like to remind you again from this rostrum today that once again one of our soldiers was killed in the east and six wounded, and every time it's from a ton of weapons. That's what we should be talking about with you, not what we're saying and what we're good at and what we're doing, how many people are doing it. I want to say that today there was a question to the government, and I'm also being asked questions from my district, and we're talking about the special taxation in agriculture that we took off. But along with what we talked about, 85 percent of animals were left behind. Sadly, though, we do not see them today. I'd like the government to pay attention to that. And maybe someone's out there selling chickens and stuff. But we're in our district, and I have a lot of references, and we don't get that. And that's a big minus. And I don't think we should cover them with taxes. And we need to see these costs. As it was said, just as the bill was passed. That's what we should be talking about. We have taken some steps towards medical reform along with you. Well, I'll tell you what, yeah, that's the step we should be taking. We have to do, we have to protect the simple, poor people, the people in the villages who can't pay for medicine to make the state think for them. We should, and it's a pleasure that we already know that the committee's Musia Bills and the government Bills are going to be combined into the second reading. And I think that's where we're going to take a big step. But I am approached by quite a number of voters and again from my city, the great Chargorod, where there is a hospital, where people do not want to be unemployed, so that this hospital provides services. Because it can provide not only as a circuit but also as a district. And we have to do everything we can to get this hospital in my Chargorod to work, and people have jobs. I think, well, on these issues, we should talk more.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u110	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u111	Not just from this rostrum, and, God knows what we are good at preparing for elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u112	Thank you, Comrade Sporish. And by the way, I now invite my colleague Barna. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u113	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear people of Ukraine! The Stockholm Arbitral Court has proved to the world the criminal acts committed by the officials of the previous Ukrainian authorities, the previous prime ministers of the people of Ukraine. As a result, Ukraine became a complete energy dependency on Russia. As a result of this, the government budget was being used to clean up the funds because they were supposed to go to education and medicine, but we paid Russia. Instead of spending our money on infrastructure development, building roads, they went to finance Russia. And instead of funding our army, they went to arming Russia. And besides, the underfunding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has led to their reduction, to the destruction of the military-industrial complex. And many now want to find an excuse that the gas was supposed to be cheaper, but forget to say that six months after the signature, it immediately went up to over $300 and then even higher. That even Yanukovic was on the verge of shutting down the Martenian kilns of the industrial center in Donetsk because of the high price of gas, which led them to sign the criminal Harkow agreements on behalf of Ukraine. But all those involved in those covenants, either directly or indirectly, must be held accountable. And I have a question, really, for law enforcement. Will the officials be responsible for signing such criminal agreements and leading Ukraine into an energy collapse? The government was the first to pay attention to pensioners. And the change in pension reform, its implementation, is a cancer tumor that was afraid to turn a number of other previous governments. And when we talk about crime in front of our people, it was a crime when a person who worked 40 years and didn't work at all had the same pension when the pension was minimal and maximally different over 80 times, when from the state budget, education and defenses were added to the Pension Fund. Therefore, the issue of pension reform should first and foremost be in line with the principle of justice. And the right system of pension reform is an indicator of the state's attitude towards its people and an indicator of man's attitude towards his age. And by the way, I'm addressing so-called anti-corruption fighters. Remember that a selective fight against corruption is also corruption, and a selective declaration is not a fight against corruption — it is a disguise. So the fight against corruption must be complete. And I call on the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u114	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u115	Less listening to the populists and more to the order of things, starting with their own regions, and following up on the action.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u116	It's a great call for all of us to work together on the positive. Please, National Deputy Chubarov. I beg your pardon, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It's been three years and almost four months since Crimea was temporarily occupied. The Ukrainian State is unable to protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens living in the temporarily occupied Crimea, but the Ukrainian State must do everything necessary to bring about the time of the Crimea. I very much hope that in the fall, amendments and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol will be made to the Supreme Council, the status of which should correspond to the right of the Crimean Tatar people to self-determination in the form of the Ukrainian State. The task force is now working on these changes. At the same time, work on the sooner return of Crimea should be conducted on the mainland of Ukraine. During the days of Ukraine, she said good - bye to the Blessed Lyubomir Guzar. Many of us have had the privilege of associating with the Most Happy One in his life, discussing various aspects of Ukrainian life. I can testify that the Blessed One showed great respect and love for all people regardless of their religion. So in addition to the speech by Mrs. Novak's colleague, I would like to make public once again the situation that has taken place around the House of Patriarchs, a temple that is important to millions of citizens of the Greek-Catholic Ukraine. Near the cathedral, even though they were recreational lands of local importance, they covered a questionable multistory, and despite the numerous promises of previous arrangements, it was not possible to stop its further construction. The surfaces of this multi-story stretch upwards and upwards, and thus, the design that has been designed with the construction of this temple is being destroyed by such commercial, you know, very temporary, primal, interests. I very much hope that this is the address of my colleagues, and I have signed there, the national deputies of Ukraine, will be taken seriously by the executive power, the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian state has, in fact, built, and we all together, a society that has the same respect for both faith and the feelings of all Ukrainian citizens. And the cathedral that's so important to the Greek Catholics on the left bank, it has to be the dominant of that place and that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor. I invite you to Victor Halasyuk's word. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainian people, Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues. The pension and medical reform offered to the Ukrainian people today by the government. What are they talking about? In the end, they come down to the economy of the budget, to the reduction of the pension provision of Ukrainian citizens, to the reduction in the number of pensioners who will benefit from pensions, to the transfer on the shoulders of Ukrainian patients of the costs they will have to pay to be treated. Is this the content of the reform that the Ukrainian community really needs? Does it address the quality and accessibility of pension and health care? No, he doesn't. It takes a completely different direction to solve these problems in order to actually successfully implement the pension and medical reforms that countries need most, to build a strong, powerful basis for their own Ukrainian economy. There's no other alternative. It takes its own sources of funds to finance medicine to finance pensions to finance education. Instead of raising our own industry and economy, the government actually goes with an extended hand to the International Monetary Fund, to the European Union, to other partner countries or donors, and they put their terms in perspective. The European Union says we'll give 600 million euros of credit if you cancel the moratorium on roundwood exports. No, we can't cancel! The International Monetary Fund says we'll give you funding if you raise your retirement age, save your medicine. It's not in the interests of the state, it's a meager tax that doesn't correct anything in the Ukrainian economy or in the social protection of the population. We need to move away from this shameful policy when the government listens to outsiders, instead of listening to its own citizens, who are actually the owners of the country and who are to be its beneficiaries. The Radical Party's faction proposes a fundamentally opposite policy, a stake on a domestic producer, a revival of its own industry, an increase in investment activity within the country, the creation of jobs, overcoming the frenzy of unemployment and the outflow of talent abroad that is happening today, then we will own our own home, in Ukraine. And it's going to take those who offer these reforms and the pension and the medical system to understand that they're going to be treated and given such pensions, but unfortunately, they'll probably get foreign passports, and you won't find them here in three, five years. That's why Ukraine needs to be built by Ukrainians, and we need to first re-establish our own economy and industry in order to be a truly sovereign democratically successful Ukraine. This is what Ukraine deserves, and this is what the Radical Party faction offers society.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u120	Please welcome the national deputy of Lozova. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u121	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. My long-suffering Ukrainian people! Yesterday in your eyes in this Supreme Council Hall was "raped" by the Ukrainian Constitution, "raped" in a particularly twisted way several times. When this so - called medical reform was adopted that violates article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The second violation was the vote, when 227 votes seemed to exist, and our faction recorded the fact that it was a disgraceful act. The ungodly authorities, making the genocide of the Ukrainian people, the so - called medical reform, voted on the cards of MPs who were not in the hall, the carcass of Witko, Hirschfeld, Fursin, Alekseyev, Mikitas. The presiding lady could give them the right to a replica, but they're not in this room, they only come when the authorities need them. What has happened in general? When the ruling MPs here, from this hall, said that someone is being treated abroad, it is those who treat themselves and their children abroad that are the lobbyists of the medical reform that people are being treated for. Because this so-called medical reform essentially takes away millions of Ukrainians, especially in the villages, especially in the renegotiates, the right to health care, guaranteed by the Constitution. As a result of this so - called reform, hundreds of FAPs will be closed, dozens of district hospitals, thousands of doctors of different profiles will be on the street. See what happens to the destruction of the scientific component of medicine? In fact, this so-called reform will be destroyed by the Institute of Shalimov, the Institute of Strasbourg, the Institute of Amos. Please tell me where to do organ transplantation if you close the Shalimov Institute? Where can heart transplants be done if the Amosov Institute is closed? Arthur Schopenhauer, a great philosopher, wrote that a healthy poor man has more happiness than a rich and sick man. We now have rich deputies who have access to treatment abroad, and millions of Ukrainians are denied the right to medical care. The Radical Party requires the abolition of the adoption, the violation of the Constitution several times, so-called medical reform. Similarly, the moratorium on the closure of medical facilities should be initiated by Oleg Lášk and John Kurovsky, who was called in the past. You can't close hospitals, you can't close FAPs. We demand free restrictions for the elderly, for people with disabilities, for people with chronic diseases. Our team's got free medicine programs, and it's working now. I'd like to ask the people in the region who have problems with this program, please contact the local headquarters of the Radical Party for instructions. Madam Chairman, please add 20 seconds. Another requirement of our team. This is a radical increase in medical expenses. Not only.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u122	Ten seconds as a whole, equal rights and opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u123	Not just to provide our people with the necessary drugs and other medical supplies, we need to radically raise the doctor’s salary. It's the Internet now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor, for a brilliant performance. And we invite you to the speech of National Deputy Igor Shurma. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u125	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! The health issue is a matter of national security, because it refers to the conservation of our nation's labour resources, which means strengthening our economy. Decisions taken by the Queen of Health should be made in accordance with the laws of Ukraine and be in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. What did we have last night? The so-called change in the financing of health care institutions, which has no bearing on reform, violated the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, 96 articles, 112 articles, because completely inappropriate terms, the conclusions of the Main Committee led to the untimely submission of those documents for consideration. But it's not basic, it's regulatory procedures. The worst thing that happened yesterday is forging. Such initiatives cannot be falsified. And what is most sad is that there was a temporary minister here in the government Hall. A person who has recently received Ukrainian citizenship and has other values. She applauded the falsified decision. She knew that there were no people in the hall, and she supported all of this. And that's very sad, because if you understand what she's doing, it's natural. She is misleading the world’s medical community. Speaking at the General Assembly of the World Health Organization, she said in her report that reforms were under way in Ukraine. This is such a false reform for the international community. This is a mockery. Moreover, she has set up an inferior government to this day. Not only is there no minister of agrarian politics, there is no minister of information, there is no minister of health, there is no minister of health, there is no minister of agrarian politics, there is no minister of health, there is no minister of health, that is, a bunch of ministers who are left by the Prime Minister, and she's also setting them up. Because if they agree to such a format, they agree to falsify the bill. Not enough so-called minister she's also sabotaging the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. On April 16, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers made a really, really good decision to transfer to the Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology in Lviv to a medical university balance. It's saving the financing of science, improving working conditions and so on, and so on, the learning process. What do you think, two months later, 60 days later, she doesn't have time to sign the order to create a commission for the transfer to the University of Med and for the creation of an inventory commission. People need to be prepared for the winter, and this person is absolutely inadequate to sign. Either they're waiting for a bribe, or they just want to resell this place later. And the next question. 45 million allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers to the perinatal center. From the Ministry, did anyone go and see how they were used? People today. Children are not born, people are unable to provide quality births today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u126	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u127	45 million dollars from the Cabinet of Ministers, even though the Ministry controls their use. No, they don't care, they need to follow, and how it's falsified, and it's implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u128	Thank you. And here's the invitation of the People's Deputy Wolf of the Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u129	Victor Wolf, the Radical Party factions of Oleg Laska. Respectable citizens! This week, the world celebrates the 70th anniversary of the Marshall Plan or the European Recovery Programmes after World War II. The history of Marshall’s plan and its lessons, particularly for Ukraine, are instructive today. This most successful international economic aid programme was based on the U.S. strategic decision on its responsibility for peace in Europe under Stalin’s Communist imperialism in the postwar period. At first, in 1944, the Democratic West adopted the American "Morgentau Plan" for the post-war transformation of Germany, which envisioned its dismemberment, the elimination of heavy industry and the transformation into an agrarian country. The Morgentau Plan, in fact, destroyed the German economy, particularly because of its deindustrialization and led to a humanitarian disaster, made tens of millions of Germans redundant in a degraded economic model. In 1947, the United States radically changed its strategy for post-war Europe, produced in principle another programme, Plan Marshall, aimed at rebuilding Germany's economy and industry, and the universal rebirth of Europe in order to win the democratic world against the Kremlin's communist aggression. Such a far-sighted economic strategy, along with Moscow's military and political deterrence, proved extremely successful and eventually led to the collapse of the communist system. Today's Western strategy for Ukraine is based on an IMF programme for third-world countries that has never been successful anywhere. The same program. [[Applause]] Such a program similarly destroys Ukraine’s economy, deepens its deindustrialization, artificially increases the role of the agricultural sector, and makes millions of Ukrainians redundant, causing mass emigration. It needs its immediate replacement for the modern Marshall Plan for Ukraine and the international course for the revival and prosperity of Ukraine as a European forposto of deterrence of aggression coming from the Kremlin again. This requires the West to make a strategic decision on Ukraine's future as an integral part of European civilization and to allocate large-scale resources -- military, financial, economic, technological, for the full integration of our country -- in fact the new Marshall Plan for Ukraine. That is what the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, and the other members of our team are untiringly stressing in all our international meetings and negotiations. The lessons of history should be well remembered and applied, especially those successful and strategically farsighted, such as the Marshall Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u130	Thank you. And please welcome the National MP from the Radical Party, National MP Kuprienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u131	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Now, in his statement, a representative of the power, a member of the pro-conquered coalition, told us that we'd forgotten that there was a war going on in the country, that boys were dying on the front, that they were wounded, that they were protecting us, and here, you see, we didn't think anything. No, Your Honor, it's Oleg Laska's Radical Party that is thinking about how to win that war. Can a country that will be weak in war win a war that will have no money to go to as the last beggar in Europe: Give us something to eat? We need to raise the economy, we need to develop the economy, we need to protect people, we need to raise the medical level. Medical care. What do we see instead? Today our leader, Oleg Lazko, directly told Groisman, "I am not satisfied with the government's work." The groysman laughed a little bit and told me how well they did everything. Let's see what they're doing. Yesterday, we saw medical reform per ear pierced through this room in violation, as my colleague Lozov said, both the Constitution and the Rules. [[Applause]] So you want to build the truth on a lie? You want the wrong to be true in the country? Never will be. Do you want to put a paid medicine on the Ukrainians' shoulders to pay for everything, even for the green finger to anoint? No, the Radical Party won't and won't. Recently, the Power Market Act was passed. Yes, the Radical Party voted for him. But we made every effort to do so. In order to rule out this law, the cost of adding gas, which is not just a barrier to economic development, he's shriveled his neck. To our audiences and audiences, with a single approach, 36 apartments, we all have to pay 5 million to the company, the lions, the grigoris, and we all know who. Five million for 36 apartments is $3,000. So, honourable Ukrainians, to let you know that 3,000 dollars from each new apartment you pay for the fact that criminal authorities have so far not cancelled the so-called fee for joining the network of natural monopolies. Who are they in their pocket? The oligarhams, who have spent 25 years on the people of Ukraine and continue to do so under the cover of this government. Again, the institutions of Shalimov and Amos were mentioned today. A grand med school, a grand med school that's not being funded to pay wages. On May 19 from this rostrum, I made a statement and asked the apparatus to make a parliamentary appeal to the President, the Prime Minister, and the Ministry. They didn't do anything. It's been more than 10 days, and there's no answer. I repeat: please, I demand that a parliamentary request be made for the funding of the institutions of Amos and Shalimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u132	I'd like you to make the speech as a parliamentary address. And, honourable colleagues, according to our Rules, we now have the last speaker. This is our venerable one. Plus three minutes. Please, Your Honor, we now have a performance by the distinguished Andrey Illenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u133	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, today I would like to focus on the issue of justice in Ukraine, because I am convinced that until we have courts, fair courts in the country, there will be no reform in the country, there will be no investment in the country, there will be no economic development in the country. Because when the court is handmade, when the court is corrupt, there will be nothing. And so I'd like to mention what kind of paphos we've had a change to the Constitution in part of justice. We were told that this is a global reform that will change our courts, that we will finally have a fair trial. The time is passing, and now that we see that the courts continue to be corrupt, the courts continue to make unjust decisions, the courts continue to throw away volunteers who are not guilty of anything, and continue to anoint corrupters. And in fact, whatever's going on at the investigation stage, we see that in courts cases involving top-corruption are towed. We have a unique situation at all. We have very few justifiable sentences in the courts -- less than 1 percent in total among all criminal cases, but as far as corruption is concerned, everything goes backwards: only 3 percent are actually going to jail, and the rest of the cases are falling apart, or the rest are getting some other punishments that are not related to imprisonment. And this is a real picture of why we have total corruption in the country, one of the main reasons. And now we see that today, in particular, the Attorney General says that, well, there's a problem in the courts. So what's the problem with changing these courts, having a majority in Parliament, having already made changes to the Constitution, which we were told are ideal changes. Having the President, having all the necessary weights to do so, why does the judicial system not change? And it doesn't change because it's very convenient when there's a manual trial. It's very convenient when you can influence the court and through the courts block any uncomfortable stuff. And now we see a contest for the new Supreme Court. What's going on? It's just weird. We see some very incomprehensible things at every stage of this competition. Now the point is that people who, for example, banned shares during Maidan, people who travel 20 times a year to the territory of the Russian Federation, there are no questions. They do not seem to be a problem with, for example, becoming judges of the Supreme Court. It's not a normal situation, it's an absurd situation, we need to draw the attention of society to this, because if such people are members of the new Supreme Court, we're going to have to start with distrust of this body. And the last thing I wanted to say. To finally put an end to this shameful practice of letting corrupters go on bail when they take one on. He's got $4 million in cash in his apartment, and he's out for 700,000. We have to finally adopt the 2266 bill, which the Freedoms have registered back in March 2015, and cancel the pledge for top-corruptioners, because otherwise it will last indefinitely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u134	Mr. Andrey, thank you. I'm being stressed here by colleagues who are still in the session room, that we have 90 percent of the speeches devoted to the debate on essentially medical reform, but no one has talked about healthy lifestyles. So we're going to have a last talk about a healthy way of life so it doesn't get into medicine. Please, Mr. Silantiev. And on that we end the "Victory." Of course. I'm going to continue the meeting for exactly two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u135	Dear citizens of Ukraine, first of all, I want to address those who watch television and listen on the radio to a speech in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have had the opportunity to hear and see that it is the Radical Party in charge of its leader, Oleg Lášk, that initiates in the Supreme Council bills, regulations and appeals aimed at preserving and strengthening the health of the growing generation, the health of our children with you, the health of the nation. Over and over. Bills that allow for the preservation and development of sports infrastructure in the country develop physical culture and sports, make them fashionable and healthy. Laws that allow children to engage in favorite sports and protect the state in international sports arenas. Why does the Radical Party faction believe and insist that humanitarian policy in the state should be at the top of the list of non-words and papers, as it is now? But because it is the health and safety of our children with you, because without an educated and healthy nation we will not build a prosperous Ukraine, we will not be able to overcome all the challenges and challenges facing our country right now. This is the economic, political, social and humanitarian crisis. That is why the initiative of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska has led to initiatives involving land benefits and real estate for physical and sports objects, sanitary and health care facilities. It was the Radical Party that initiated changes to the Budget Code, which financed measures aimed at developing physical culture and sports. The Radical Party has registered a bill on moratoriums to change the targeted destination of land allocated to sports infrastructure. Thanks to our initiative in assessing the work of governors, they have introduced their personal responsibility for developing physical culture in their areas. In turn, a bill to amend article 141 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of taxation of expenditure on the financing of objects and the physical orientation of health and culture, and much more, on the humanitarian field. Why does the Radical Party view the development of humanitarian policy as strategically important in the state? But because a country that is part of the three leaders in Europe in the spread of AIDS and cancer, child alcoholism, and child crime, the country in which all records of childhood alcoholism and crime are being broken can overcome this genocide and this humanitarian crisis. In a nation that is concerned about the health of children, the health of an adult generation, the health of citizens, we cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u136	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u137	Thank you. I'm talking to you. Let us direct the decision, not for the benefit of financial organizations abroad, but for the benefit of the people living in Ukraine, as the Radical Party does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-09-m0.u138	Well, colleagues, everyone who's left in the room, we want to practice, and those who aren't in the room just don't have a healthy lifestyle. Dear colleagues, we're closing our session. And let me remind you that the following week, not only can national deputies engage in sports but they are obliged to work on committees, commissions, and factions. They are obliged to work. So we ask you very much that all of our committees take place on time, work to have an order on them. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, June 20, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is closed. Good-bye.
