ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Were they all nice? Did Santa bring presents? "The Opposition Block," were you nice? Those who were dishonest would be cut. Please come in, take your seats. Colleagues, I'll wait 30 seconds. Please take your seats. So, can we register? People's deputies are requested to register. Let's register, colleagues. [[10:03:29]] There are 345 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: Mikli Olegovichkadikala Hello, Mr. Mikola. [[Applause]] And Maria Vasilovna Matios. Mrs. Maria, welcome to your birthday, you've been successful, and you've been successful, and you've been successful, and you've been creative. [[Applause]] Hello, Mrs. Mary. And I would like to remind you that today, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'm asking the factions and groups to record the performances. Please sign up. Colleagues, please, all factions and groups, please record. From "the will of the people," the word is given to Rybczyn Evgen Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I wanted to dedicate today's talk to those topical topics that we discussed on the Conciliation Council: this is also the theme of the general poverty of the people against the new Forbes ratings, this is also the topic of the land market against the loss of our financial independence and the topic of war on the east side of the military budget, and the issue of combating corruption against the background of the elimination of major anti-corruptionists. But today I want to talk about a whole different, not one general, not one inflammatory, more faithful Georgian who was first invited, and then pushed out in three necks, but millions of Ukrainians who were not invited anywhere, but actually pushed out of the country abroad by courses, tariffs, prices and injustice. According to analysts, there are 33 million people in Ukraine today. Of them, according to the State Pension Fund, 12 million are pensioners. Over 10 million Ukrainians work abroad? And the process of labour migration is still going on. The number of jobs in the country is decreasing and the number of ROCHEN stores is decreasing. C’estla vie, as the French say, is such a life. But are we not responsible for this life of our people? Didn't we vote in favour of pension taxes? Didn't you and I go down with Guntar? Where is she, by the way? Did you put the bracelet on the plentou level? Don't you and I, instead of transplanting separatists, quietly observe patriots plant patriots one by one in prison? What's the point of criticizing authority? Aren't we actually in power? Have we not been chosen by a nation that appreciates our work today as unsatisfactory? You and I promised the bandits a prison, and the young European perspective. The bandits have enjoyed the new power, and young people are looking for a better future abroad. Over the years, the bereavement has only increased this wrong process. We adopted a new budget a week ago, with a pension of 1 thousand and 452 dollars. As I said before, in the state, a dog is fed for 100 bucks a month, and we have a pensioner for 50. We've obviously forgotten something, we're clearly not doing anything if the people behind the walls of this Parliament are impoverished, not multiplying their wealth. We have to be careful not to be cursed by our offspring tomorrow. To reduce taxes, to increase pensions, to protect the land, to restore the economy, to secure the rule of law, to restore scientific personnel, to overcome hammocks and culture, and to stimulate nationalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u4	To stimulate the national producer and finally end this Ukrainian-Russian hybrid war with a convincing victory. We can, and I believe that, I know that we have mad potential, and let's not waste it, but work every day, every minute, so that the Ukrainian can live in Ukraine better than abroad. If the Lord is with us, who is against us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, head of the faction, is invited from the Peter Prashenko Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, we are starting the last sessional week of this year. During this year, we have clearly continued the beginning of 2014 of important, systemic changes in the state. We continue to reform the army. And today the leading countries of the world are taking over our military experience. We preserve our energy independence and successfully hold the international front against the aggressor country. We're building new roads. We increase support for Ukrainian cinema, Ukrainian books, and Ukrainian music. Judicial, medical, pension, educational reform and the reform of rural medicine initiated by the President of Ukraine were crucial this year. Since last Friday in Ukraine, the updated composition of the Supreme Court as the highest body in the system of the Ukrainian judiciary has been fully operational. In the area of health, we have introduced new funding principles, and government funds will be spent directly on patients’ needs. We have laid the foundation for the development of a health system. Thanks to the first phase of pension reform, we have not only increased pensions for millions of pensioners but also introduced modern pension principles. The Education Act introduced new approaches to the educational process. I would like to remind you that a significant increase in public language in education has been a key factor in this reform. At the same time, it should be noted that there are politicians in Parliament who are trying to sabotage the effective work of the Supreme Council. At a time when the coalition led by the Presidential faction stood up for every reform bill, a part of the MPs focused their powers solely on trying to increase the tension in society. The last outstanding example is the support of the low policy of Mr. Saakashvili, who, at the expense of the Yanuković team, is setting up so-called protest actions and trying to provoke strong opposition. Now all those who wanted a political pianist in the background of Saakashvili were willing to take him into custody in court, are fully responsible to society for the subversive actions of the ex-President of Georgia and his supporters. Because I recall that the lives and health of Ukrainian children were put at risk during the October Palace’s storm, and it was the same on the conscience of politicians who were willing to put him in charge. On behalf of the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko, I call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept a consolidated political statement with firm condemnation and inadmissibility of such events. As we go back to Parliament, we need to adopt a number of important laws during this week, and above all, the initiatives of the President of Ukraine that free us from the electronic declaration of public organisations; nevertheless, it is important to support the Presidential bill on strengthening decentralization reform and the development of agriculture, deconcentration in land relations and strengthening protection against raids. The country is waiting for constructive laws, reforms and changes, and trying to sow chaos, to increase tensions in society, is actually opening an internal front in the state solely in the interests of our enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Timoshenko Julia Volodymyr from the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u8	I am now speaking on behalf of the Fatherland Party to all Ukrainian citizens who can hear us. Now, in the last practical days of the year, which is going on, a new great machination has begun after the destruction, the weakening of the bracelet course. I want to draw your attention to the fact that no market dictates today's dollar bracelet course. These are completely planned actions that aim at making several court banks that are close to the President of Ukraine affluent on the course and earning billions of dollars on inflation that starts in the country and enters a new circle with the rate falling. I want to ask you, why hasn't Mrs. Guntar's resignation been discussed in this room for seven months? Please tell me, how can it be that for seven months the head of the National Bank suspected of corruption suspected of misusing its official position to rest and at the same time accounted for by the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, and behind the back of the Ukrainian society have manipulated the currency course, leading to virtually the poverty of every Ukrainian citizen? I think there are accomplices in Mrs. Gonnaareva. This associate is the President of Ukraine. They're spending the National Bank together as another element of making their profits. And that means that either Parliament raises this question, it deals with this issue, and it attracts practically the answer in this room, and Mrs. Gotarevo, and the President, if we are a parliamentary-presidential form of government, or Parliament will also be an accomplice. And that's why the Fatherland faction insists that the issue of the resignation of Pottery be included on Thursday in the agenda of the day, that this person be retired, that a criminal case be opened for her abuse of the official position and corruption of the National Bank, as well as practically sabotage and non-professionality in terms of weakening the currency and, as a result, deceiving everyone in Ukraine. If this is not done, it will mean that the majority in Parliament are responsible for falling the rate of the bracelet, for earning shadow money for manipulating the bracelet, and for impoverishing people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u9	Next statement from the Opposition Block, please, to the head of the Opposition Block faction, Mr. Boyke. Mr. Yuri, we invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u10	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! At the end of each year, accept the summation. What will the Ukrainians remember about this parliament? Nothing good. It is therefore clear that there is a very low rating of confidence in power and in the parliament of Ukrainian citizens. The Supreme Council is remembered for its printing of laws that have led to the rise in tariffs and prices, the increase in labour migrants, the spread of crime and the inability of the force to cope, the decline in industrial and agricultural production. The government worked to ensure that soon the milk and meat of Ukraine would be imported from abroad. The work of this Parliament was marked by the adoption of the so - called reforms: a pension that actually destroys pensioners; an education that will reduce the literacy rate of the population; and it has now beaten us with neighbors through the Position on the Language; a further breakdown of the health system by an immedreform that will obtain both medicine and people. Parliament has become a centre for creating problems for Ukrainian citizens. People are anxious to see another session week so that there are no more surprises from the national MPs. Parliament's positive decisions are very few, perhaps only two: they have managed to prevent the sale of land and prevent the large-scale export of roundwood from Ukraine. Parliament has never heard a report from the government and has not adopted a strategic programme for the development of the state, nor has it taken any step with regard to reconciliation in the East. Parliament's effectiveness is the same as trust in power is zero. But the solution is: in the three plenary days, cancel the pseudo-reforms, listen to the report of the Force on Resonant Crimes Investigation, unlock the issue of pension increases for military pensioners and IMF pensioners, listen to the government report -- and then resign it. But understanding that we will not do this, we suggest that Parliament dissolve itself, and this will be the best New Year's gift for Ukrainians from deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u11	I invite the leader of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Beresuk, to the rostrum. Please, Mr. Oleg, you are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the only positive result this year is that the Ukrainian institutional state survived and survived because of the productivity of the Ukrainian human being. Did she survive because of Parliament’s activities? This needs to be analyzed in depth, by the simple reports, in fact, by the crackling of a tyrannical, despotic machine that is spinning. The fact that the Attorney-General comes to the highest stage of Ukrainian democracy and directly puts the deputies on their knees, directly threatens and takes away the mandate that he has not given, directly opens the investigation and invites them to court by violating the laws under which he is to act, while the Head of the Supreme Council is silent, Parliament is silent. This means that Parliament is either a slave or a servant of a oppressive machine. In doing so, anticorruption organs are being destroyed. The President and Parliament do not carry out their duties and do not bring about or consider the Anticorruption Court Act. And then he complains that we have a bad relationship with foreign friends and financial institutions. And they don't want to be friends with institutions that are despotic and care about their own pockets, not the country's budget. The enemy occupied our territory. The enemy is killing our people. And Parliament, together with the President's institution, does not want to acknowledge war as a war, an occupation of occupation, but an enemy of the enemy. To whom, then, does this Parliament serve? Parliament, which accepts the country's budget, which provides 46 percent of the needs of the Ukrainian army. Now, let's talk about the economy. We all care about the spending, and who will take the money to the oligarchs by enacting a tax law on the resulting capital? And who will adopt a bill that will introduce the modern financial police? Why do we not control or point to a government that does not operate the Transfer Price Act? These are all the bills that take money from oligarchs and give it to people. And the last. It's not just from corruption, it's from political corruption, because this room doesn't want to adopt the Elections Act to the Supreme Council on a proportional basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u13	30 seconds. Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u14	on a proportional basis with open lists. You know why? So the oligarchate wants to have a system of choices that chooses vassals that depend on a despotic and tyrannical machine. This Parliament has much to do to serve people, not the owners who pay them for each. Before the new year, money was stolen from the Ukrainian budget and Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u15	Please, from the People's Front, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u16	Congratulations, fellows! The People's Front faction insists on Thursday's bill to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity. The law on recognition of Russia as an aggressor, on trust, on the full responsibility of Russia for the occupied territories must be approved in the shortest term. The position of the People's Front is clear, consistent and unalterable: this law is needed by Ukraine, and its adoption is an overwhelming legal and political decision in our country. This will allow us to protect the peaceful population of the occupied territories because of the proliferation of international law regarding the obligations and responsibilities of the occupying country. In addition, this will give rise to the expansion of Ukrainian and international sanctions against the Russian Federation, as well as the beginning of the formation of a consolidated legal claim to Russia for all the damage caused by aggression and occupation. It is about the already filed and future lawsuit from Ukraine for hundreds of billions of dollars. This law must be passed because this law is in the interests of the Ukrainian State, voting for it will show to the Ukrainian society, who really hurts to restore the territorial integrity of our state and opposes Russian aggression here in the Ukrainian Parliament. Russia has now declared its exit from the so-called joint control coordination centre. This means escalating the conflict, refusing the peace plan, further maintaining the territory of Donetsk, Luhansk under the aggressor. This is another step and another confirmation that no peace agreements are going to be implemented by Russia. And this is another factor for the immediate mandatory adoption of the Law on the Restoration of Ukraine’s Territorial Integrity. I emphasize that for our faction, for the People's Front, the priority is and will be to restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine, to return to Donbas and Crimea, to punish Russia for crimes against the Ukrainian people. For us, it will continue to be a priority to increase the welfare of Ukrainians and the social security of the military and their families, to enhance the prestige of the Ukrainian military profession, to equip the Ukrainian army with modern weapons, to achieve NATO standards. The People's Front will continue to support the development of the defence industry, the development of modern weapons. We will continue to direct the efforts of parliament and executive power to counter hostile propaganda, to strengthen and extend sanctions against the aggressor country. The work on energy security and energy independence began in 2014 with Arsenij Yatzenuk. And thanks to the willful decisions of his government, we have rid ourselves of Russia's gas storm. Today, MPs from the People's Front have drafted a bill on energy security. This is another important security issue. An important direction for the People's Front remains to continue anti-corruption reform and to normalize the situation in the anti-corruption sphere. In particular, it is the creation of the Anti-Corruption Court and the appointment of an NABU auditor. The question of national security is first of all. We will not be able to carry out an economic and social divide until we have overcome the enemy and jeopardize our territory from its encroachment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u18	I'm again addressing the national MPs. Patriotism and common sense, and to vote on this Thursday's Act to restore the territorial integrity of our state, you recognize Russia as an aggressor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party, from the radical Oleg Lazko faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The politics of power, irresponsible, dishonest, corrupt, farsighted, has led to the chaos we see in the country today. This should be thanked to the authorities, President Poshenko, the foreign reformers he hired, who are all together today seeking their home country, their native land, our own. That's why they don't care, because it's a strange country for them. Who suffers first? Ukrainians, first of all, on their own incomes, on the exchange rate, on the depreciation of even small savings and small increases in salaries and pensions they've been making lately. Therefore, the responsibility for the mess, for the chaos, for the loss of Ukrainian savings, for the poverty of Ukrainians, is primarily vested in the authority and personal responsibility of President Prashenko. A few months, more than six months, there's no head of the National Bank. They're parasitizing, they're robbing, they're called Ukrainians, Nazbank's head is resting. The Radical Party faction requires an immediate report to Parliament by the head of the National Bank of Guntareva. An immediate report on the results of the work and resignation of the head of Nazbank Gontareva. We call on our team to demand that President Dustenk meet the constitutional requirement and submit to Parliament a new head of the National Bank. In terms of destabilizing the course the bracelets, in terms of devalued savings, robbing the Ukrainians of Nazbank can't be without a leader, Nazbank can't be without a completely guided right policy that would allow the national business to develop. What do we have instead? Nazbank raises an account rate, limits credit opportunities for lending to our national producers, and we are once again becoming competitive in a loss position compared to imports. And here are the results of the activities of today’s authorities. In 11 months of this year, imports into Ukraine were imported by $5 billion more than we sold exports. This is how every Ukrainian feels in his pocket. Because to be a stable bracelet to be stable prices, you have to sell your product, not import it. That's why our team requires the adoption of the Ukrainian Buy Law, the incentive and support of the national producer, so that we can sell our products more, so that we can create more jobs for Ukrainians to raise wages and pensions, and inflation has not eaten up the savings and the increases we are seeking for Ukrainians. We demand a radical change in economic policy and the responsibility of the authorities for impoverished Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u21	Thank you. From the Rebirth faction to the word, Anton Yatzenko is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, and above all the distinguished Ukrainian people, I would like to welcome everyone to the feast of Santa Claus. And our Rebirth Group raises the problem of treating sick children in Ukraine every day. We've done a lot of work this year, and we've solved the question of cohlear implantation, we've actually solved the issue in this year, almost 80 percent of treatments abroad, but there are many others left, such as child oncology, the adoption of the Law on Rare Diseases, and many others. So we insist and we remind ourselves that a working group was set up in the government in the summer to solve the problems of childhood treatment in Ukraine so that people would stop collecting money. And we ask everyone on this day of the Supreme Council MPs, officials to join in on this issue and so that we take appropriate legislative steps in the first quarter to stop the disgraceful practice when Ukraine is the only country in Europe where childhood is not entirely financed. It's an outrage! Therefore, we look forward to the support of other political forces regardless of their views on other political problems. I thank you for your attention and look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. Oksana Siroid is invited to attend. And I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall, this is a closing statement, after which we'll go to the vote, so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, since World War II, the sovereignty of states has been absolute, all nations except for one, except for Ukraine. After signing the Minsk Accords, those who did so put Ukraine’s sovereignty into dependence, dependence on the enemy, dependence on Russia. And that's why Russia today allows itself to dictate conditions to Ukraine. Yesterday's so-called Russian exit from the so-called SCCC is not really to free Ukraine or even to force Ukraine to negotiate directly with Russian puppets. This is to force Ukraine to carry out the same Minsk agreements, in fact, by our hands to destroy the statehood of Ukraine. Yesterday, too, we received calls to calculate the damage we suffered from blocking trade in occupied areas. But isn't trade with the occupation administration the same support for the occupation administration and support for the same puppets? By signing the Minsk Accords, you did not simply relieve Russia of its responsibility for what it did for the consequences of the occupation, signing the Minsk Accords, trading sovereignty and the army to profit from the actual enrichment of the war. And that's why you're being forced to pay your bills today, that's why there's been a vote for changes to the Constitution with special status, that's why you voted to extend your special status, and that's why amnesty has been voted on, and that's why there's no law on the recognition of Russia as the occupier and recognition of Russia as the occupier, that's why today we don't have a presidential decree on the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and that's why the chief military prosecutor of Ukraine today has a map-blanche on the persecution of the Ukrainian military. If there were most free and deserving people in this room, we would have voted for a law that defines Russia as an invader and holds Russia accountable for the consequences of occupation. We would have long heard of the government, not the damage from the blockade of trade in occupied areas, but the damage suffered by the people of Ukraine from four years of occupation. And if we were worthy and free, we would demand the President's decree to use the Ukrainian Armed Forces to protect our military forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Irina Heratchenko is invited to attend. And once again, I invite all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, really, it's extremely important that today, when all Ukrainian citizens are waiting for the main miracle -- and this brings our country together -- is the return of peace to Donbas, this return of Crimea to Ukrainian jurisdiction, this is essentially the discussion in this room: so what happens to Donbas? And this is a world-viewed discussion. It is notable that crocodile tears about the fact that today or tomorrow the Donbas occupation law does not stand in order are poured out by MPs and factions who voted against the country’s recognition as an aggressor in the first reading. What's more, they broke the Presidium microphones, they played checkers when we voted against you, because Russia is an aggressor country. And we're going to tell these factions: we're going to read and vote this law in the second reading, but when it's strategically advantageous for Ukraine to win Ukraine. What's going to happen this week? And in fact, why would it have to be at that point to strategically win Ukraine? Thanks to the Minsk Treaties, which these politicians are actually trying to break down, our partners are continuing their severe economic sanctions against the aggressor country as soon as possible. And it's this week that they're going to be signed. And those who want to leave Ukraine on the way to warm up the Kremlin, and with our hands, really, with our hands to remove sanctions, they're sitting in this room, they're good at speaking Ukrainian, they're often in embroidery, but there's nothing to do with Ukrainian patriotism in those words. I want to remind these politicians that their blockade on blood began with the phrase, "We will free the hostages." In fact, only worsened the situation and disposed of these serious stories. And here, colleagues, is the world-viewed debate: so who are the 3 million Ukrainians in the occupied territories for us? They're all collaborators, aren't they all Ukrainians? But no, it's the victims of Putin and the Kremlin, it's the people in the occupation, and we're going to fight for the people and the territories. And when they tell us today that we were dealing with the occupation regime, you helped the occupation regime steal Ukrainian property. Because those companies that worked there before March, they registered in Ukrainian territory, they paid taxes to Ukraine, they paid taxes to the Pension Fund, and Ukrainian citizens, who are bigger patriots than you, they worked there, not war, and you helped implement this script, Kurchenka. He's paying for your tent town for nothing, they deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u27	So, colleagues, the speeches are over. And I want to remind you that according to the order of the day, we have the first two social laws. And in order for us to be able to go through today's full-fledged agenda, I, my colleagues, will urge everyone to support the proposal to consider them in a simplified manner. And that's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. We are moving to the first draft of the law of order of the day -- this is the draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine (for social protection of persons with disabilities). And, colleagues, I'm going to ask everyone to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, please. Please prepare for the vote. We need 150 votes so we can move on to a reduced procedure. And I hope so, and I'm sure everyone supports this proposal. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for social protection of people with disabilities) (number 6710) should be considered by a reduced procedure and I ask everyone to support this proposal. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support everyone. Colleagues, we vote, please support. [[10:38:31]] For 128 We didn't make it. I'm going to put it again, only I want to remind you of the logic. We have a block of fuel-energy complex today, we have a tense and saturated agenda today, and I don't understand the logic of not voting for a reduced procedure. The first laws are unifying, they are social, they are supported by all factions, I call again, all factions to support the proposal. And please come into the hall now and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, we can vote. Logic is understood, logic is supported. Please support me. And I'm re-voting the proposal that the draft Act on Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities (number 6710) was considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice, we vote carefully. Please be supportive. [[10:40:02]] For 148 I'm going to put the vote again, the third time, I'm going to ask the heads of factions to unmask, and once again I want to emphasize that if we go into full procedure, it will take at least an hour and we can't get the order of the day that we agreed on the Conciliation Council to go completely through. I'm asking you to get everyone involved. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm asking you to be careful about voting. You see, every voice matters. And I ask you to support the proposal that we consider the draft Law on Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities (6710) by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote. I would like everyone to vote carefully. Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:41:11]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u28	Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law proposes to amend 44 legislative acts, such as the Ukrainian Family Code, the Ukrainian Laws on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, on State Assistance to Families with Children, on State Social Assistance to Children, on Children with Disabilities, on Scientific and Scientific and Technical Activities, on National Deputy Status, on Judicial Expertise, on National Bank of Ukraine and on Other Ukrainian Laws, in particular, on "Disability", on Children with Disabilities, on "Disability from Childhood" and on "Disability of War" in all contrasts and numbers, to replace accordingly with the words "person with disabilities", "child with disabilities" on the basis of "person with disabilities and disability" on the basis of "person with disabilities and disability with disabilities. The adoption of a draft Ukrainian law will allow for the introduction of existing legislation in the area of social protection of persons with disabilities in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto, to create just and favourable living conditions for persons with disabilities. I am absolutely convinced that the adoption of this bill today as a basis, and I will very much ask you, as a whole, will be a great gift to today's holiday for all persons with disabilities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u29	Thank you very much. To the report, I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Veterans, ATOs and people with disabilities, Mr. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Mr. Maxim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, as has already been said, the main purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's laws to the precise title of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In accordance with the Law of 7 September 2016, number 1490 in the title and text of the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto was replaced by the words “person with disabilities” in order to bring these instruments into line with the official translation of the Convention. To that end, 42 laws replace the words "disability" with the words "disability" and "disabilityed child", i.e. the bill is mostly technical. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. The committee also supports this bill. At the same time, we stress the need to clarify the law on the basis of the social protection of the disabled in Ukraine regarding the preservation of the right of students with disabilities to receive a social scholarship. Today, this right is enshrined in the Child Protection Act. Taking into account this observation, the committee, at its meeting on 6 September 2017, decided to recommend Bill 6710 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole as a law with such an amendment in mind. In paragraph 15 of paragraph 11 of paragraph 3 of section I of the bill, the word "academic" should be deleted. I would also like to entrust the committee of profile, along with the Chief Legal Authority, with appropriate technical and legal remedies for the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Pisarenko Valerius. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to support these initiatives and go on a day-to-day basis with social projects, or people don't know what we're doing here, what's best not to live. But what I wanted to say is to add to this initiative that we also need to review other normative acts that today relate to the order of viewing or clarifying disability. People with disabilities come to me as a national receptionist who talk about the problems that arise during the transformation of the status every year and the receipt of new and new information and documents and confirmations. We need to move away from this and make life easier for people with special needs, even though infrastructure in most cities is not prepared today, so let's make sure they don't have a barrier to normal life in society. Therefore, I have made appropriate requests to the State's first persons today, and I would like this agenda to be filled not only in Parliament, but in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the President's Office, so that we have some questions about the support of people with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u33	Thank you. From Self-Help, Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna gives the floor to Semensi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u34	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues! According to the Ministry of Police in 2016, 61 people per thousand Ukrainians have disabilities, about 2.5 million people of different disability groups. During the years of the hybrid war with Russia, this figure has only increased. For 2017, more than 5,000 people were officially granted war invalidity status. In 2017, the state allocated over 8 billion dollars of government social assistance to people with disabilities, which is an average of just over 3,000 dollars per year or 262 dollars per month. In January 2017, nearly one and a half million people received a disability pension, and the amount of such a pension was 1,400. 1247 bracelets and 1,452 bracelets after the upgrade. This size of pensions and social assistance for people with disabilities is more like a mockery than a state. Apart from the fact that the State does not provide adequate money, no minimum conditions for normal socialization have been created for these people. The proposed bill does contain a number of good thesaurus. In particular, I want to point out that people with disabilities are constantly faced with bureaucratic difficulties to gain even what is guaranteed by the State. In particular, in Kharkiv Vladimir Mogidar, a group with disabilities, reports that he is required to obtain orthopedic shoes at the Kharkiv prosthetic plant every year to obtain new evidence that he is a disabled person, although he has an immaculate disability group. All over the world, disability is not a judgment. Some 15 percent of the world’s population are disabled, but in developed countries, it is not even material aid that is needed to maximize socialization and integration of people with limited capacity to feel fully equal to other fellow countrymen and to live a normal active life. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u35	Thank you. From "the will of the people." Now I'm going to give the Opposition Block, first I'm going to go through everyone. You're arguing, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u36	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkina. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Presidium, of course, Bill 6710 our faction will support. First of all, as has already been said, in this bill, people with disabilities, today we should replace the word "disability" with "persons with disabilities". And that's only natural, because we see that Ukraine has serious problems of equiexclusivity in ensuring equal development rights and self-implementation for people with disabilities. Our Peter Prashenko faction initiated the President's initiative to introduce inclusive education in Ukraine. And we see where now, with thousands of children with disabilities, they get education alongside their peers. And it's a big plus, where a child can really realize itself, and where a child can learn, work and develop on an equal footing. That's why we need to change this equality among the adult population at the legislative level. So I think we need all of these problems that were before to be removed, and this Bill 6710 is to be supported. Because it really gives us today the opportunity to make a level playing field among all the disabled, persons with disabilities, so that they can be with their own. Both at work and in society, they didn't feel that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u37	Thank you. It's from the Longshanks Opposition Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! As an example of this bill, I would like to show and focus your attention on the bills on which the legislature is now focusing. Bill 6710 is a technical bill. Here it is presented as a bill, which is a legacy, which is very important for people with disabilities. From the point of view of the humanity of naming "disability" as "person with disabilities", "child with disabilities" as "child with disabilities", it's important. But would it be better to live with these people in Ukraine when this bill was passed? Obviously not. This bill does not solve the problem of material security. This bill does not solve the problem of access to employment of persons with disabilities. Therefore, in my opinion, it is not necessary to consider technical bills to my personal conviction and to convince the faction of our faction, namely, bills related to improving the living conditions of this category. A bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u39	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u40	Bills need to be considered to increase the material security of the listed persons, which would increase their maintenance by the State. This bill is technical, we support. But we don't think it's enough for the state to take care of and ensure the good living conditions of this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, the factions have already come out. I'll give it to you. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform you that in two minutes we are moving to the vote. Now from the non-fractional two performances. First Andrew Illenko, then Sergei Mishchenko. Please, one minute. Andrew Illenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u42	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, we need to support this bill. Although he certainly does not solve most of the problems of people with disabilities in Ukraine. And you know, of course, it's a problem of material security, but not just it, because it's primarily about integrating people with disabilities into active social life. Very often in our cities there is no suitable infrastructure for people with disabilities. We see that these people very often do not have the capacity for normal employment, to get education, and these are the issues that Parliament is certainly supposed to be dealing with. In fact, in the same context, I would like to point out that this bill should necessarily be voted on by a committee with the right of students with disabilities to receive a social scholarship. This is very important, and it is in such an order that we should vote in favour of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u43	Thank you. And the closing statement is Sergey Mishchenko. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. We've seen the speeches of our colleagues today, who, in 90 percent of their speeches, said that it was a technical law, that one word changes: the concept of another concept. But there are two problems that ten of the disabled will say that this is the key. The first problem is material security, and this is the budget. We can talk about this a lot: there's money -- there's a rise, there's no money -- there's no rise. But it's essential, you have to get this disability first. So that's what people come to see MPs. When a person wants to get disabled, he has to lie in a district hospital for a few weeks, pay the money for it, then put it in a district hospital, pay the money. I mean, give up more than one disability pension to get her this disability. So the Cabinet of Ministers, I think we need to change the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u45	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. And we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (on social protection for persons with disabilities) (number 6710) to propose a committee on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we'll support the bill. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful! Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:55:59]] For 232 232-yes. The law is passed. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities to establish a disability group for participants in the ATO (No. 7161). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:56:38]] For a hundred and 156-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of UkraineSumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, this bill has been drafted in response to the appeal of the participants themselves to an anti-terrorist operation that has a huge problem. People who lose limbs in Ukraine today actually remain socially vulnerable. Do you know, for example, the simple fact that a soldier who lost a limb in the middle of a hamster, which means he can no longer move normally, can get a group III disability? What does the third group of persons with disabilities mean? The third group of people with disabilities means that this person cannot be rehabilitated at a military hospital in Ukraine for free. So today, for the fourth year of war, we're actually leaving our soldiers with no limbs, no free service at the military hospitals, if they get the third group of disability. In order to examine these things, they need to go to the medical board. Sorry, unfortunately, you have to say that the corruption of such medical commissions is extremely high. These people are very often simply asked for money to raise their disability, and only the II and the Group -- they can be treated in these military hospitals. This bill provides for a higher level of guarantees for military personnel, for those who have become disabled because they protect the Motherland, they protect us with you. These people we're proposing to set up a disability group above, so we're not going to have a third group and they're all going to be able to serve at military hospitals for free. I agree with the scientific and expert management's observation that there should be an added word literally one "upper degree or one group." I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u47	Please let me finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u48	Thank you very much. With this reference to the second reading, we will work on it. Sadly, though, today’s practice is extremely negative. And we checked out some of the military hospitals that we visited, we met people who lost limbs today in the fighting zone, and they asked very much not to be humiliated by the annual reviews, so that they could grow up in their arms during that time, or grow up in a year. Unfortunately, the hand will not grow. And we have to press on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Reverend Victoria. And now we invite the head of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War and ATO Alexander Tretlyakow to report. Please, Mr. Alexander, we invite you to your word. Mr. Alexander, Mr. Alexander, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u50	As already stated, the bill proposes to settle two issues. First. To establish that persons who, as a result of injury or illness resulting from direct participation in the ATO, amputated upper or lower limbs, the disability group is set up on an uninterrupted basis, and that is correct. The other one. Such persons are placed on a higher level. The Committee supports a legislative initiative aimed at strengthening social protection for those who advocated Ukraine’s independence and the integrity of its state borders. The bill is also supported by Minfin, Minsocpolytics, and many public organizations. During consideration of the bill on the committee, some warnings were made regarding its individual positions. Therefore, the committee’s decision to adopt the bill as a basis and to redraft it for the second reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Clearly, we are now discussing only the first reading of the bill. And I'd like a colleague to sign up for a discussion, please. Please, Igor Moisiyczuk of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u52	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! Igor Musiyczuk Radical Party of Oleg Lachka It is one of the bills to unite the hall now, one of the bills to which a small part of us owes our debt to those who have protected and protected the country, to those who, without harming their health, go into battle daily, lose their health, and, unfortunately, return home in a state where it is difficult to find a job, find their place in a peaceful life. Therefore, the bill is a necessary supporter of our faction. And once again, I would like to emphasize to you, fellow Members, that every vote in favour of this bill is important. And if, and if there are not enough votes, it will be a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament and it will demonstrate to society the attitude of Parliament towards those who have protected and protected the country. I urge everyone to vote in favour and support this bill by paying tribute to those who, without harming their health, protect the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u53	Please give the next speech from the Semenah People's Deputies from Self-Help, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u54	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the bill is indeed proposing an important norm whereby persons who suffer from injuries, injuries, disabilities, diseases resulting from direct participation in the ATO, amputated upper or lower limbs resulting in disability, the disability group is set up: (a) without a re-examination period, i.e. uninterrupted, and above. Such a standard should indeed be accepted immediately. People who have passed the ATO and have lost their health by protecting the state, we are effectively demeaning those who are forced to re-enact the medical-social expert commission with their right to disability. But there's something else to point out. The statistics of the Institute of Medical and Social Problems of Disabled Persons show that the problem of unwarranted re-examinations in the bill is common to all persons with disabilities, regardless of the reasons for disability. We need to bring the situation in order to make it easier for these people who have an obvious right to disability, because of the irreversibility of the injury, and to stop the abuse of them in the form of these reexaminations. In fact, it is an apricot standard that has been inherited from the Soviet health system. At the same time, the Ministry of Health needs to strengthen its control over the activities of such commissions and take comprehensive measures to ensure the irreparability of responsibility and the application of sanctions on the heads of such committees guilty of making wrong decisions in the issuance of disability documents. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u55	Thank you for your position. Please, John Sporish, from the site of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u56	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! Indeed, we heard a report and a co-report on Bill 7161, which, in fact, indicated the rehabilitation of the disabled people of Ukraine who are participants in the ATO. We watch every time on TV where our ATOs are injured. And today we really need to pay attention because those of our supporters of the Motherland who lost upper or lower limbs get the disability of a certain group and only for a limited period of time. And there is injustice why? Because in this bill we have to change the rules of the Soviet form of communication of the state with citizens in order to ease the bureaucratic burden on every Ukrainian. So it will be very fair when we adopt the bill and when our ATO participants are treated and have to undergo rehabilitation for free. And this will allow us at least to protect our injured disabled and our ATO participants. So I think we should unite the hall and vote unanimously for the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Valery Pisarenko of the Rebirth Group. And then there's Mr. Storm from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, it was very convenient to say just now that we should not demean disabled ATO veterans for rechecking. But I want to say more: we should not humiliate all citizens of Ukraine with disabilities who should conduct re-checks every year. So I'm asking you to consider an official request to the Cabinet of Ministers my immediate appeal to amend the normative acts that are required to stop this shameful practice of constantly requesting evidence, to help people with disabilities with appropriate degrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u60	Thank you. Colleagues, so Igor Shurma's closing statement is about to take place. And I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. Please, Igorshurma. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u61	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we have considered a very important question to this day. I had to work with people with special needs for eight years as part of my ministry. They respond very painfully to words when they are addressed with "disability." And here I am addressing all the members of the Supreme Council: extract the word "disability" from your brains and tongue. We were just considering changing their status to people with disabilities, and they're saying people with disabilities. That's the first one. Forget it! People with Special Needs! They're just like us, and we have to create conditions for them. That's the first one. And the second. When you consider the issue and care so much about rehabilitation, please be literate. How can a member of the Supreme Council talk about free rehabilitation? Free cheese in a mouse trap! It's free for those people, but it's valuable to the state. Such laws require sounding at least the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u62	Add time? We're done, aren't we? So we can move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that yesterday, during the Conciliation Council, Mr. Spiowakovsky, representative of the Education Committee, raised questions about the decision to award prizes to talented young scientists, and after this law, I will also put them up for consideration. And so I ask everyone not to disperse after the vote, but to stay in the workplace. So we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act (No. 7161) to propose a committee on a basis. Please vote. All of it? The committee said, in general, yes? Based on the committee, yes. Colleagues, I have a document. If there's a will, then I'll put it all together. First, I put it on the ground. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:10:41]] For 238. Decision taken. Colleagues, there's a committee. Please give the committee a minute, Trelyakow. Treyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u63	I propose to vote in general on the technical legal rights that the committee will introduce into the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u64	Thank you. I'm voting on the committee's proposal that we vote on draft Law 7161 with technical and legal rights in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:11:26]] For 218. Not generally supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go back again, but when I get back, colleagues. Please, one minute, Sumar Victoria. And, colleagues, come into the hall, take your jobs. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, if we support the logic of this law, and there's this support, there must be one revision that I'm now speaking under a stenogram in accordance with the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority: "to the group above or the group I." In order for the bill to sound purely legal, because if the group is assigned, there can be no more for one group, so "the group above or the group I". And so it can be accepted in general according to the logic that we have discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u66	Thank you. So I'm going to put it to a vote with a proposal that I've made for Victoria Sumar's transcript. Me, too. And this is by Alexander Trelyakow. By my first vote, I ask you to return to the vote in the entire draft Law 7161. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:12:50]] For 218. 218, colleagues. No voices. We've adopted the law as a basis, and the committee is working on it. I think we can accept it painlessly in general. So, colleagues, I want to remind you once again: a decision you make, a law you take as a basis. I would like to remind you that the Conciliation Council was represented by a committee representative, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spievakovsky Alexander, and raised questions about the draft decision on awarding the prize to the most talented young scientists. And we agreed that we would consider them after social laws without discussion. In addition, a question was raised by the head of the committee, the head of the committee of Vlasenko, about the renaming of the village of Veliki Pritka, where only one letter was changed. And now I have a proposal so that we can vote quickly and effectively. So first of all, I'm putting a motion to vote to make the draft rulings -- they're actually identical -- 6752, 6753 and 7364, we're looking at a simplified procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Please get all mobile and don't split up. [[11:14:17]] For 180. Decision taken. And I'm inviting you to the Sperm paper of Alexander the Sperm. Three rulings at once, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u67	Three at once?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u68	Three, yes, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, I think this is a question that unites all of us. On the first question, this is the 20th prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research. Dear colleagues, nice statistics: 64 jobs were submitted on the committee's website after the announcement in the Voice of Ukraine. And then the commission took 20 jobs -- the authors, 25 women, 17 men. These are basically the candidates for the physics that gave these jobs. And we ask for the unanimous decision of the committee to reward these young people. Dear colleagues, the budget is projected to be 400,000 dollars. If we don't vote with you, this money will go and our young scientists won't get it. Dear colleagues, the money isn't great, but it's a signal to young scientists that our state, the Supreme Council, is looking after them and wants them to stay in Ukraine. Two: 6753. This is an appropriate decision to install the Supreme Council’s name scholarships for the most talented young scientists. There were 32 applicants, in the previous year there were only 20. The appropriate commission carried out the appropriate selection. There was an appropriate announcement. They've got 20 applicants. I'm sorry, 30 named scholarships to the Supreme Council, 20 of them to men and 10 to women. We're asking you to support it. And under the stenogram. To accept that one candidate has changed the workplace, we ask for the following clarification under the transcript: Paragraph 14 of paragraph 1 of the Decree states: Dmitry Mikhailovich, doctor of technical sciences, head of the Kharkiv National Department.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u70	Keep going for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u71	U.S.A. Motorways University of MON Ukraine. Please be supportive. And the next, the last. This is our ruling on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschool and extra-school institutions (registration number 7364). I want to say that proposals have come from virtually every area. Regrettably, Winnicka, Kyiv and Poltavsk district councils did not submit their proposals, and the Kiev City Council did not consider the submission at the proper time. But after we have voted on the committee, a suitable proposal has come from the Kyiv City Council, so we ask for a stenogram to add the following: Savechenko Mikhailo Pilipovich, a history teacher at the Kyiv High School of Eastern Languages No. 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u72	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u73	Okay. In conclusion, I want to say that as a result of this, we have in our project the decisions of the winners who represent such educational links: general secondary education is 18, vocational and technical education is 2, preschool education is 5, secondary education is 2. A total of 27. I'm asking you to support and signal our young teachers, young scientists, young people that Ukraine is looking after them, it's waiting for them. And I think we're going to contribute to the development of human capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please ask the deputies to come to the hall. Let's support our committee that did a great job. No, we'll vote. Such was the agreement on the Conciliation Council that we vote on the decisions prepared by the committee. So, colleagues, this is a determination agreed upon by the committee. And I ask everyone to vote and support our committee, to support young scientists. We agreed not to discuss it. Colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone in. Once we get into the discussion, we won't be able to go through the agenda. We agreed that we would actually enter into that condition. All the factions insist, right? All right, then let's do it, two in, two in, two in. But by all decrees, because they are identical. I ask: two for, two for, two for, all three fortifications. Please sign up for the performance. Aleksy's violinist, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I think we need to support this decision. Because that's the thing to do. And let's vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u76	The People's Front, Gorbun's Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u77	The flint.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u78	The Teras flint.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u79	People's Front votes for the most talented young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u80	Thanks, guys, for understanding. Voropeiev Yury. Please give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u81	Alexander Dolzhenkov, the Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Opposition Block will support the decree. But once again, as I said before, these decisions certainly deserve attention, but a comprehensive approach, support for both people with disabilities and the science of the country, our national institutions, the scientific fields. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2018, which was voted last week, did not give us answers, but how the science of the country will be financed, but how the country’s sciences will be supported. And the answer is, unfortunately, it's not very good: there's a reduction, there's an optimization, there's an educational reform, where we can lose a generation that could specialize in chemistry, biology, physics. These are the sciences that are progressive, which are the driving force behind scientific progress around the world. We will deliberately abandon this course. We're doing educational reform. We do, we copy the corresponding Western standards, but we forget that the Soviet school that gave us the engineers that gave us the physicists, the chemists, it might not be as effective as it seems at first sight? Perhaps the legacy that we inherited as an independent country must be preserved and developed? Perhaps not the examples that the West gives us are useful to us? We somehow give up the past, but we don't have to give up the past, we don't go anywhere, we have to draw conclusions and look forward, do what is convenient for our country, our people, our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u82	Thank you. From the Lensky Radical Party. It's lazy. I'm sorry, Lilka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u83	DmitriLenco, the Radical Party. Surely we will vote in favour of this decree, surely we should welcome our best young scholars. But we realize that with one scholarship for a few of the best, we will not solve the global question of the science of the realization of our young talents in Ukraine. Unfortunately, today we see a colossal outflow of the best and most talented personnel that complete our bonds, the outflow beyond our borders. In the field of IT, in the field of innovation, the best of our talents, which can be competitors around the world, which are some of the best in this field in the world, are taken abroad, they get huge wages there, they can be implemented there, and this, unfortunately, is not yet offered by the state. So the Radical Party basically stands in the position of involving young people in governance in the country, in creating social elevators, in involving young people in realizing their scientific potentials, in order to compete in the world, we need to introduce innovative technologies, we need to introduce areas where we can be competitive. In science, Ukraine can definitely be at the forefront of the world, if we give young people the opportunity to stay here and work for it, it's housing, it's cheap loans for young people to get and it can buy housing and jobs. To do that, we need to implement a comprehensive program and implement our package of industrial laws that we have proposed, which will allow us here in Ukraine to create jobs so that Ukrainians who have completed universities don't go abroad, work there and look for fate, and so that they can be implemented here. And that's why we're basically in favour of Ukrainian youth, and that's why we had a chance to make it happen in Ukraine. By the way, today we've offered a program for all city councils that allows for internships, to get the experience of young people in government, so that we, our Ukrainians here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u84	Thank you. And a closing statement from Peter Dustock's Block. One minute, Caplin, and we'll go to the vote. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Please don't go out there. We'll have a vote in a minute. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u85	Dear, glorious young people! Head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sergei Kaplin. I'd like to remove the curtain from the subtext of this bill right now. First. We're trying to get help right now, a 6000 dollar prize for young people. At the same time, this year, I find it a very shameful norm to support the political parties represented by the Ukrainian Parliament. And this year, almost a billion dollars will be eaten by a number of factions present. The Ukrainian Socialist Party demands that you, the Darmoids, give up the money that you use exclusively for political advertising, for Ukrainian youth, for talented Ukrainian youth, so that we can develop fundamental sciences so that we can support our country's main, key potential -- young people, so that it can squeeze you out of Ukrainian politics and give you a chance for a European future for our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u86	So let's move on to making a decision. And once again, I ask everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. So I'm going to make every decision. Let's support young scientists together. And I put the first draft of the Award Order to be the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research (No. 6752) on the basis and the whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:27:34]] For 233 233. It's been decided. Next. Draft Decision on the appointment of named scholarships in 2017 for the most talented young scientists (6753). The committee's decision is on the ground and on the whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, please back up, please support the young scientists. [[11:28:07]] For 237 It's been decided. And the last is 7364. The committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. They're pedagogical staff of general education, vocational and technical institutions. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:28:37]] For 238. It's been decided. Welcome to the committee on quality work. And, colleagues, another question that we agreed to go through without actually discussing is the draft decision on the renaming of the village of Veliki Priticka in the Kaharlic district of Kiev, where only one letter changes. And it was a big request from the head of the State Building Committee. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to now support the consideration of draft Decree 7098 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. We will support a local community that awaits a decision by the New Year, please. [[11:29:28]] For 203 Decision taken. Is there a need for a report? Yes, yes. Vote. Then I put to the vote a draft decree on the renaming of the village of Veliki Priticka of the Kagarlicka district of Kiev (No. 7098) as a basis and as a whole. One letter changes there, and this is a request from a great community. I ask you to vote, please support, colleagues, 7098, please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:30:11]] For 219 Colleagues, this is the replacement of one letter. I'm asking you to come into the hall. It's a request from the village community. This request was transmitted through SergiyaVlasenka to the Supreme Council. For us, it's a few votes. Come on, colleagues, let's mobilize and support. I'm asking you very much, colleagues, to take up jobs and vote now. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. Heads of factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, come on, there's gonna be deputies in the hall right now. And now I'm betting on my return. Colleagues, we have a whole series of names. I'm not putting the whole block in, because I know it's gonna be hard. I only put one name on which I have a special request. So, colleagues, I ask you now to support the return to Decree 7098. I ask everyone now to support the proposal to return to Decree 7098. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. I ask every voice to vote with care. Please support the return, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:31:34]] For 231 Thank you for understanding. And I'm putting draft Decree 7098 on the ground and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues. 7098 votes. Please vote, every vote matters. [[11:32:01]] For 238. It's been decided. So, colleagues, now we have a block of "inclusion in the agenda of the session." It's very short, no speeches. I'm asking you to stay put, colleagues. I'll read the verdict. All these decisions were on the site, everyone got to know them. I'm sure the factions are made, we'll just go through each of them and determine by voting. So, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. The first bill is a draft law amending article 374 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (number 7323). The proposal to include a day session in the order of the day. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues, to get into the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[11:33:03]] For 177 The decision is not taken. Next: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act on Information Security and Resistance to Aggressor State Advocacy. And, colleagues, this bill should be adopted this week. And that's why I'm proposing to put it in the agenda for decision-making. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support everyone, it's very important to accept it by the new year. Please vote, please support 7299. Let's vote, colleagues. This is the country's information security, so please vote carefully. Please vote, please support. [[11:33:55]] For 215 A few votes. I'm once again, colleagues: we're now putting it into the order of the day session, it's not a consideration either on the basis or on the whole. Therefore, if someone has not been able to get acquainted, I emphasize that we are putting the day’s session in order. If time is needed, we will not be able to get to know him until Thursday. That's why I'm asking you, colleagues, to mobilize. It's an information security issue, and it's just a day-to-day session. I'm putting again the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act on Information Security and Adversary Propagation (7299), the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session and this week's review. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. I ask you to vote carefully! Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:34:57]] For 212 I'll put it again, third time, colleagues. By factions, please: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 92, "National Front" – 57, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 17, Radical Party of Laska – 15, "Papačina" – 11, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party of Rebirth" – 2. Guys, I'll put it back on. And I would ask everyone to take a responsible vote. And once again, it's just getting into the agenda. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm putting the bill of Law 7299 to the vote again: inclusion in the agenda of this week's session. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. For the security of the information country, please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:36:06]] For 207 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services" on the provision of permanent activities to the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities (number 7359). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:36:53]] For 177 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the permanent functioning of residential and utility enterprises for the duration of the heating season (number 7238). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[11:37:30.]] For 213 That's not much. I'll set it up one more time, colleagues. So once again, I'm putting the bill of Law 7238 into the agenda of the day. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:38:00]] For 234 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending Chapter X of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to take effect (No. 7278). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:38:36]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities on Voluntary Community Uniting (number 7308). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. [[11:39:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And the last one, the final one. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2017 (number 7410). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. [[11:39:41]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Something didn't work out with us today. So, colleagues, so we can move on to the key block of today's fuel-energy complex. The question in general is eight. [[B in m in s a l in]] 7410 now. 7410 is this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Colleagues, yes, yes, I'll put it again. So 7410 didn't work out. So I'm going to put 7410 again: integration into the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:40:49]] For 215 So, colleagues, a block of fuel-energy complex. And we go to the first question of this block. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify certain aspects of the oil and gas sector (No. 3096). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:41:35]] For-183 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify certain aspects of the oil and gas sector (registration number 3096-d) has been considered here twice. It's aimed at deregulation and improving land allocation procedures for exploration and mining, and simplifying other liberal oil and gas procedures that will allow us to invest substantively in the field and increase the volume of oil and gas production. The bill has been under consideration by our committee since 2015. By a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 21, 2017, the bill was converted to a committee to prepare for the re-reading. During the work, our committee worked very closely with representatives of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. I would like to thank my colleagues from this rostrum, such as the Bogotá Grigory, Bakumenko Alexander, Kulinich Oleg, Miroshnicke Ivan, Lunchenko Valeria, Labazük Sergy, Vadatursky Andria, Yvchenka Vadim, Mushak Alexia. All of these colleagues have joined and have worked very actively to resolve all the issues between agriculture and gas-producing companies. Although this bill does not remove all regulatory barriers to gas production in Ukraine today, this version is balanced and compromising between oil - gas companies and landowners and land users. Recently, many deputies have supported the fiscal regime change in this room, but the fiscal regime does not matter if companies are unable to make waiters and lease agreements in the early stages of gas production.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u88	Finish up, 30 seconds. And I'd go to the faction leaders. Let us report an important law and then exchange our thoughts. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I report that this bill took into account all the proposals made by the largest state mining company - Crushing. But the problems that this company has today are the same for all other companies. For example, recently there was a lack of company activity in the Ivano-Frankow region. I very much ask you to get to know the essence of this bill and to make sure that all the Moratorium issues are removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u90	Give me 30 seconds to finish. Please let the reporter know again, and we'll talk about the Ukrainian land in the discussion. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u91	I know everyone in this room is concerned about the issue of gas production. I also care about the balance between the interests of agriculture and gas companies. So I'm talking to parties that consistently promise Ukrainians an increase in the production of Ukrainian gas, vote, please, and support all the companies that have supported this bill today. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u92	Thank you, dear reporter. And a co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex Alexander Dombrowski, is invited to the floor. Please, colleagues, let me get this straight from the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u93	Dear friends, dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that Ukraine was one of the world's pioneers and gas leaders in the 1970s. In the best of times, Ukraine gained more than 70 billion feet [70 billion m] of cubic gas and thus exported it even to Russia. I would like to remind you that the key issue of Ukraine's energy security at the moment, the key is to increase Ukrainian gas production and reduce imports, because the gas consumption structure in Ukraine is very simple. We consume about 36 billion cubic meters a year. We have 20 billion of our own Ukrainian gas, and 16 billion of us buy it by import. And every year, more than $3 billion of the gold currency in fact, we're counting the ones that put the imported gas here. We need to increase at least 30 billion meters of cubic gas. To do that, we need to remove the barriers, so we need to change some of the positions of the Soviet-Soviet Nadra Code, which we need to change in principle with you. But it's a very big job, so this bill allows for the elimination of a number of serious problem positions that don't allow you to increase geological intelligence, it doesn't allow you to increase investment in this sector. And I would also like to remind you that this law has a very serious multiplier effect on the development of the entire economy, in order for you to realize, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u94	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u95	30 seconds, if you please. To make you realize that 1 billion dollars of investment in increasing the production of Ukrainian gas allows you to create a thousand new jobs, get about 200 million meters of cubic gas, about 200 million dollars extra in the budget, and so on and so forth. So I ask, in my first reading, to adopt this bill as a basis and continue to work with our colleagues, including the agrarian committee, to finalize it and reread it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Colleagues, now is the time to sign up for the discussion and present your position and your views on the bill under discussion. Please. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please. Oh, I'm sorry, Pinzenik of the People's Front. Please, Paul Pinzenik, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Katzer-Buchkowska Natalija.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u98	Mrs. Natalia, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u99	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This is an extremely important law primarily to enhance the energy security of our nation. We've been talking about energy security for three years now, about increasing our own gas production. But for some reason we don't see any investors investing in gas production, we don't see an increase in natural gas production in Ukraine. Why? First of all, we didn't have the best fiscal conditions for gas taxation. That's the problem we solved. Now the branch needs to be deregulated, and this law will allow us to simplify the mechanisms of gas exploration, namely, simplifying the conditions for the provision of land for the production of gas. Yesterday, on the committee, we discussed energy security and presented the Energy Security Act. We're trying to create an institution that will coordinate the activities of all government authorities on energy security issues so that we don't have situations like this when we're all talking about gas production, about increasing our own production, but nothing really happens. It's very important now to think about Ukraine being a gas transitor, so that we have someone who can buy this gas at market price at European market price, not at an overpriced price in a monopolist. But most importantly, the cheapest gas is self-sustaining gas, so we have to support our national mining companies, attract investments, create jobs, give communities the opportunity to make money on it and develop certain territories. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill and our faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u100	Thank you for your clarification. From Self-Help, please, Victoria Wojcietsky, turn on the microphone. Microphone, please turn on Victoria Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the presiding lady, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support this bill, and I want to explain why. You and I have set a standard in the 2020 program that tells us to make Ukraine absolutely independent of the import gas, to be self-sufficient at the expense of Ukrainian gas, not to buy it in Russia or Europe. To do this, we need to create conditions so that oil and gas companies can actually do their work in the most efficient way and quite quickly. I'd like to give you some simple numbers. In order for the company to start drilling, it needs to actually go through a track, get more than 44 permits, and go through a lot of installations. And in order to get a drilling permit, a designated area, you have to wait up to four years. Let's look at the example of Canada. In Alberta, an independent regulator was created to regulate the oil - gas industry. They analyzed all the legislative obstacles that were created, they were reviewed for deregulation, and this allowed, first, the whole industry to save over $2 billion a year, which then went to drilling, to extract their own and gas, and oil. This country has now become a flagman in the global market and is now fully self-sustaining. Ukraine has all the possibilities, enough resources to become really energy independent. And for those of you who talk about protecting the interests of the oligarchs, I want to remind you how a year ago, when you and your colleagues offered to lower the rent, they also talked about what they called the oligarchs and their interests, and this year they supported the rent cuts to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u102	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u103	supported a corresponding reduction in rent to market conditions, which should lead to an increase in its own production. But we still have to get rid of those rudiments of the Soviet system that don't really allow us to actually increase the production of gas and become independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u104	Thank you for your clarification. Please, John Sporish from Peter Dust Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u105	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. I ask you to pass the word GrigorySverk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the few figures that Mr. Alexander Dombrowski has already mentioned today. Ukraine has already obtained 70 million cubic metres of gas, not long ago. This volume is sufficient not only to satisfy all the needs of Ukrainian gas production and the Ukrainian gas industry but also to be able to sell large quantities of gas on the outside. So we have to do everything we can to encourage people to invest money in Ukrainian gas production. We have to do everything we can to make normal competitive conditions for the extraction of gas in Ukraine, not only by the ability of the Ukrainian enterprise, but by the involvement of foreign investment. That is why I am very much asking the House to support this bill, which enables me to increase the production of Ukrainian gas in Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, let's support this bill and do everything we can to increase the production of gas in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u107	Please, from Fatherland, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u108	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Clearly, we need to take care of the energy security of our nation and increase the production of gas. But this law actually creates the mechanisms that you want to go around the moratorium on the sale of land. The right to use the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land In fact, the project envisions the transfer of land for the benefit of legal, natural persons, offshore companies, so - called investors. We have to make a deal with the producers. And in my opinion, the Energy Committee would have to take care of it, except that. We have more than half the skyline, it belongs to the Russian capital, "VSEnergi" is now linked to the politics of the Russian State of Babakov. Unfortunately, the committee does nothing to influence these sensitive links in our lives at times of crisis. I'm convinced that now, during a period of actual military confrontation with the Russian Federation, the committee has to take care not of how the farmers remove land without any compensation to them, but of how to get back under the influence of the state of the EU-owned skyscrapers, or at least to implement a tool of state temporary administrations, such as how it happens in the bank, so that Ukraine has energy security. Not right now, we're working on removing the land from the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u110	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last week, an extremely important decision was made at the initiative of our team to reduce wages to stimulate the increase in own gas production. Because for us, the key is to lower housing and utility tariffs. Today in the tariff structure, it is usually imported gas, expensive import gas, for which Ukrainians are paid, for corruption of power, for expensive import gas, for abuse, for monopolies, for oligarchs, for everything is paid for by Ukrainians. And we want the Ukrainians not to be robbed. And that's why we offered six percent -- new wells over five kilometers deep. Because this is the key -- the country's energy security, the more we're going to extract our own gas, we're going to be energy independent, and we're going to lower housing and utility tariffs. So our team certainly supports all the bills aimed at increasing own gas production, simplifying business procedures, we vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Colleagues, now I'm going to give it a minute off. There are only too many who desire. Colleagues, it's one minute, Levechenko. One minute, Mishchenko. One minute, Dombrowski. And in three minutes, we're going to vote. I'm continuing the meeting. It's a complete list, no more speeches. Three minutes to vote, so please invite everyone to the hall. So one minute, Levechenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u112	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District of Kiev. It is certainly necessary to make Ukraine independent of the import gas, but it is Ukraine that must be made independent of the import gas, rather than making separate oligarchic groups independent of the import gas, but the Ukrainians will not fail, and vice versa, the Ukrainians will be worse off because of excessive liberalisation, so called deregulation. We're talking about deregulation all the time, but for some reason, deregulation in three years has, in fact, done worse for end-users, for most people. And this bill deprives local government authorities of self - determination as to the possibility of granting permission to change the target land use, as well as the obligation to transfer land to use. These positions are discriminatory because they allow one category of legal persons not to comply with the requirements of effective legislation without explaining the privileged status. This bill confers the right to build and house the site of an oil - gas mine on a land serviette, which is unacceptable, since the legal nature of the construction of an oil - gas plant is not a servitor, but rather a city’s activity. And there are exceptions to oil and gas mining, which enable us not to follow special legislation on soil protection. They're putting it out in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Mischenka, one minute. And Dombrovski. Colleagues, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, well, the cynicism of a higher species. Last week, we voted in favour of extending the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, and during this sessional week, we are voting for it to be removed. So I'm going to explain very briefly with one sentence. That period, as long as the development agreement is in place before this industry is already producing this gas or oil on pies mainly where the agricultural and forestry funds are being allowed to do anything without any compensation in fact. That is to say, by our decisions, we give the oligarchic groups the opportunity to continue to earn money by concluding intelligence contracts to make more money. So we're raising people's pensions by 100, by 50 bucks, everybody's looking forward to it now, and sociological research has shown that 9 percent only gets less promotion, and all the other 99 percent are not satisfied with the pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u115	Thank you. And, colleagues, the closing statement is Alexander Dombrowski. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to take any political insinuation on this bill, and at least I'd like to ask some of my colleagues before either voting or speaking, to read those bills that we're discussing here. I would like to stress once again that this bill is crucial to Ukraine's energy security and energy independence. Position number two. To change the economy, you have to invest in the economy. No enterprise can be built without land. The production of Ukrainian gas, Ukrainian oil, cannot be increased unless problems are solved. Yes, there are nuances that we need to discuss, but we can discuss all of these problems between first and second reading. But we are obliged to move in the way of increasing our own production of Ukrainian gas. And I want to ask all my colleagues, all the factions, all the political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take a responsible vote now. I would stress that this is just the basis, the first reading, but this is a big step towards ensuring the energy security of our country. And that's why I'm asking you to support everyone. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify some aspects of the oil and gas sector (number 3096-d) on the basis of a committee proposal. I ask you to vote, please maintain Ukraine's energy security. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[12:04:02]] For 231 Decision taken. And, fellows, don't split, attention! I now place the next issue on the rating vote to support it. We're not going to be looking at him right now, I just want to figure out his support. Ukraine’s Next Law to Review the Proposals of the President of Ukraine (5,370). I'm announcing a rating vote to support him so we know if we can get to him after the break. Please take part in the rating vote and please vote. We're not going to look at it right now, it's just for support. 5370, please participate. Please vote, please support the rating vote. Vote, colleagues, please. Please support us to see the readiness of the hall for consideration. [[12:04:59]] For 197 Thank you, colleagues, for participating. Let me show you through the factions. Thank you, colleagues. Thus, according to the Rules, I declare a break of 30 minutes. In 30 minutes, I'm asking everyone to come to the room to continue their consideration of the issues of the fuel and energy complex. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u118	Colleagues, time taken for recess, are exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for work. In connection with the rating vote that took place before the beginning of the break, the committee is requesting a draft law of 5370 to postpone its consideration. And so we move on to the next question of order of the day from the fuel-energy complex block -- this is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (6081 and 6081-1). And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. My proposal will be from the committee to consider this bill in a simplified manner. And I look forward to supporting the entire room, and I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, the heads of factions and the apparatus, invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to enter the Chamber. We have eight drafts for the fuel and energy complex. In order for us to be able to get through them fully, we need to support the proposal of a short-term committee. And I ask, colleagues, to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Deputies get into the hall, and you tell them to split up. So please prepare for the vote. The shortened procedure will be the first vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation on Improving Investment Opportunities in Electricity Production for Alternative Sources (6081 and 6081-1) we have considered a reduced procedure. I ask for your support, and I ask you to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[12:45:18]] For 116 116. We didn't make it. I'll do it again. Just, colleagues, look at the agenda. We have important issues of the fuel-energy complex. We also have the disciplinary statute of the National Police, we have an important bill on physical culture and sports in the next day. If we can organize our work, we can go through most of the daytime issues. On the Conciliation Council every Monday, MPs call for more bills, but we won't be able to accept them if we don't work effectively. So I'm asking you to drop the political debate, and the decision will still be made in the hall. But the committee asks us not to look at the bill for an hour, but we can go through it more quickly. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and support the proposal to consider draft Law 6081 in a simplified manner. So please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote 6081. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:46:47]] For 124 124. I'll put it again, colleagues. I'll wait 30 seconds if there's no votes, we'll go over the full procedure. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please come in, colleagues. I would like to stress once again, and now I'm going to re-supply the draft law for a reduced procedure. If there are no votes, we'll get to the bottom of this. But this is what I particularly refer to those drafters of the bill who are standing after the PEC. That means we won't have a chance to get to them. And so I'm asking you to help me gather 150 votes right now, convince my colleagues to support the review of the reduced procedure. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. And I'm voting for a proposal that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation on Improving Investment Opportunities in the Field of Electricity Production from Alternative Sources (6081, 6081-1) be considered by a reduced procedure. And I ask everyone to support the committee's proposal. Colleagues, please support. You see, every vote has meaning during the vote. And so I ask everyone to take up their jobs and support the committee's proposal. So please vote and please support, colleagues. Carefully, each voice matters. Vote. Please vote. [[12:49:35.]] For-149 There was 150 on the board, just someone irresponsible then pulled the card. And I'm in exceptional circumstances, considering that one vote is missing, I'm betting, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to vote carefully, 6081 in summary procedure, colleagues. Please vote carefully. Please vote, please support. Careful, colleagues, we're voting. Please back up, please, colleagues. [[12:50:20]] For 139 Let's move on to the full procedure. And, colleagues, I want to remind you of this episode on the Conciliation Council. I would like to remind everyone whose bills are still in place: irresponsibility while in the hall leads to the fact that we cannot consider all the bills. Ask again. Can I put it again? Come on, colleagues. You can't come into the hall 15 minutes after the break. You can't, colleague. And you can't be in the voting room. So, colleagues, I'm once again making a proposal as an exceptional proposal for draft Laws 6081 and 6081-1 to be considered by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[12:51:39]] For-146 So let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I would very much like to take this attention of the Parliamentary Hall to energy laws -- to discuss in full procedure -- and as a sign of a very serious understanding of the energy security of our state. And I would very much like this discussion to be not political, but professional, because people on the street, and people who eat, citizens of Ukraine expect us to make the right decisions. I'd like to remind you what the problem that we have today in the energy sector is. It is a problem of the weariness of physical and moral foundations. I would like to remind you that, for example, the heat generation that uses Ukrainian and imported coal now exceeds 80 percent. This tells us that we have to update and replace the core funds not only in the energy field, but in general in the Ukrainian economy. Trend second. We all know that we need to develop clean environmental energy. I would like to remind you that today, in the electrical generation of all Ukraine, only 1.6 is pure, green energy, and about 30 percent is about dirty emissions, environmental problems, those are the problems that we have to solve: how should we allow innovative green energy to start working in Ukraine. To do that, we have to open up opportunities for both internal and external investors to invest in wind energy development, solar energy, thermal energy, biogas, bio-energy technologies, as civilized, ecologically trying to develop the countries of the European Union today. But what I'd like to say is that the possibilities for connecting new energy, clean and alternative, in Ukraine are just 5.2 gigawatts. But a lot of the technical conditions that were issued three years, five years, seven years ago, it's working. And the companies that got those technical conditions are doing nothing today to use them, and to start investing and modernizing Ukrainian energy. It's wrong and it's not normal. And these companies don't do anything to do anything except speculate. And today, when real investors come in and say, "We want to build a new generation," they say, "We don't have the capacity for technical connections. Go to a company like this and make a deal." And go and make a deal -- it's called "scheme," if softly, "corruption," if you call things your own names. What does the bill do or propose? Shorten the technical conditions of a potential investor for three years. If the investor took technical conditions and started investing in three years, he has a normal, stable, predictable business in Ukraine for both internal investors and for external and green tariffs. If in three years the technology company has not done anything, these technical conditions are losing power, and the new investor who will come has the opportunity and the right to receive these technical conditions, and to start a rapid investment process, an economic, energy process in Ukraine to make the country better, so that people can feel and see, including security in energy markets. So this is the key position proposed by this bill. We have another alternative bill, which will be reported by author Alexy Rybchin. The Committee on Fuel and Energy's decision is to base the first bill that I report on to be taken into account in the updated version between the first and second reading of the proposal for a bill by the People's MP Rybkin. The main scientific and expert office supports voting on the basis, in general. And the anti-corruption committee sees no corruption risks in adopting this bill. Dear colleagues, please support and vote on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u120	Please stay in the rostrum. On the rostrum, please stay. We're going in full procedure. And I'm asking you to sign up for the question right now. Please. Please, National Deputy Krivenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u121	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to thank the acting head of the committee and for this bill, to say that we support it, that it is the right initiative, and all the authors, the initiators. And I have a general call, first of all to the Supreme Council, for the leadership of the Supreme Council to vote today to call off the anti-corruption court bill. Let's put it in the agenda -- the voices, we see, is -- so that there's a chance to register the next bill, and that on Thursday, at least on the first reading, we can look at it. This question cannot be sabotaged. And according to the broken bill that's currently under consideration, I'm asking you to back him up. We'll support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u122	It was a replica. Please ask the following question from Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Of course, it's the right laws, and it's time to create conditions for the development of alternative sources of energy. This is the security of our nation. But I do have a question for the next one. By building the security of our nation here, we forget that the ten olenergos are now. The portions of these oblenergos belong to the representatives of the Russian Federation. Today is the deputy of the State of Babakov, who is today. Since 2014, under the sanctions list, he owns control packages of all of the skynergo’s shares. Is it not time to introduce laws on alternative sources of energy that would make it impossible for foreign nations to influence the security and energy of our nation?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u124	The answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u125	Mr. Yuri, thank you for asking. I believe that there is no taboo for the Ukrainian Parliament to discuss those very key and important issues, particularly those relating to energy security issues. And I think any faction, including the Fatherland faction, can make such bills. And I promise you, at the committee meeting, we will consider them very carefully. But, along with being objective, I would like to say that today, in private or privatized skyscrapers, the situation is much better than that of those ruled by the Ukrainian State. You know, there are strikes in the "Chercas of the Oblenergo", in the "Olenergo Zaporozhye" today. People cover roads because they don't get paid for a few months. So by supporting your position from the point of view of energy security, I would like to give further attention to both the government and all state institutions to the situation in the areas governed by the State today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u126	The next question is from National Deputy Bondar Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Mr. Alexander, in two words, please repeat again for the national MPs, perhaps who did not read the law, the difference between the first and the second bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u128	Mr. Michael, thank you for the offer, but I don't want to take my bread to my colleague, a member of our committee Alexia Rybchin. He will now report from this rostrum, and he will tell the difference, the proposals he wants to make in his bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u129	Thank you for your answers. Please take your position, Your Honor. And I invite you, a word for the report, the national deputy Alexia Rybchin, who prepared the alternative, 6081-1. The procedure is correct because right now, Mr. Faction Leader, I have studied the Rules, there are now reports on two alternate bills, and then we have a report. The committee's report, then we have factions leaders speaking, then MPs. No, no, no, it's, it's the bills that we put in the same block. Please give the floor to the author of the alternative bill. Mr. Alexei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u130	RybchinAlexy, "The Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear colleagues, thank you for not voting on the simplified procedure. And when I had that opportunity, 10 minutes to talk about green energy, pro-decapping economic growth, decarbonization, electric cars, low-carbon technology transfer, building a new type of economy, but out of respect for my colleagues who. And their bills, which are and stand next, I'm going to cut my speech very short just to explain the difference between my bill and the bill of my colleagues who proposed. First, I fully support the logic of the first bill. Technical conditions that have been and are not used must be limited. Because we have a large number of investors who want to enter Ukraine, create jobs, invest, pay taxes. And there are a large number of people who, using their corruption connections in the regions, have reserved certain areas behind them, certain technical conditions to simply resell them. Speculation doesn't do us any good here. Because, really, the energy of Ukraine, it was very, very much still being built in the Soviet Union. And we need a lot of capital to modernize it. In order for us, our children, our grandchildren, to live under the energy of another arrangement, namely, decarbonized energy and energy, which corresponds to our commitments under the climate convention, which is ratified by the so-called Paris Climate Convention. And by the way, you and I, colleagues, should be proud. Because the Ukrainian Parliament became one of the first in the world of parliaments to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement, which enabled Ukraine to be one of the leaders of the process and help ratify this very important, two-pronged agreement worldwide. What makes my bill different from the bill of honorary colleagues. I'm proposing, given the timelines needed to build objects of different kinds of green generation, that we have the opportunity to continue this term by which the lines of TT will be limited. So we're going to have to set a T.O. term, a 3 year limit. I propose that you have a mechanism to continue for at least a year, for example, for the objects of wind energy, where it is necessary for you to start building, to do just one year of wind monitoring. For example, this should not be done, such important things, for the solar generation or for other species. So we have to have a legal, legal mechanism to continue the TU for those investors that have actually come and are actually building. And I propose -- and this was the decision of the committee -- to take this proposal into account in my bill. So I'm willing to join as co-author in the bill of my colleagues if this is the proposal that will be taken into account. So if the honourable chairman of the committee who will then report the conclusion of the committee and this decision will be supported, I think it will unite the hall and we will find the right and governmental decision. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u131	Please ask the author of the bill. Please sign up. Andrew Illenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u132	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In principle, the law and the alternative, and the main one, they have logic, you can argue now which one is better. But my question to the reporter is, it's a little wider. I would like to ask if we can talk today in Ukraine about the effective development of alternative energy, about our energy independence actually increasing to improve the environmental situation, while energy remains the most corrupt and monopolized economy in Ukraine. And in fact, it's because of the different schemes in the energy sector that the Ukrainians are being robbed because of absolutely incredible tariffs. It is because of the various influences of the oligarchic clans, including the Russian oligarchs, that the destruction of our energy independence is also taking place. We probably have to adopt these laws, but we have to solve the basic issue of our energy, and then we will have the opportunity to develop alternative sources of energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u133	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u134	Mr. Illenko, I completely agree with your statement. And I want to add: my logic and the logic of the Fatherland faction is that energy is demonopolized and it's not an oligarma, but energy is owned by people, because we have a process of decentralization of so-called financial decentralization, decentralization of powers, and we don't have a decentralization process of energy, people own energy, they create energy cooperatives, they set up mini-catal loops, they set up a solar or wind generation, and they generate that energy themselves, as they do in developed countries. People buy electric cars, they charge at night from the energy that's in their battery batteries, and they already have these technologies, they accumulate from their solar batteries, and they're energy-dependent. This is real energy dependency when our, I don't know, shopping centers will have solar collectors on their roofs and they'll cool off on their own electricity, they'll heat water on their own electricity. And these monopolies you mentioned don't want that. So I think that the Supreme Council should help people, not the oligarchs, to have energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u135	The next question is the national MP Laño. We can't see. Laño? Please. The next question is the People's Chamber of Commerce. The next question is the national MP Krivenko. Colleagues, if you sign up for a question, can you be in the room at this time? Please, Mr. Krivenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u136	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I have two questions for you. We've already said that we support this bill, but in the field of energy. First. Do you know about the Chechta Lubelska project, which is in Lviv, where mining mines are closed, and there is a fully prepared coal project. Ten million similar coals are being imported today from the aggressor country, which will provide 3,000 jobs, which unfortunately today does not have the necessary support in the ministry and government. That's the first question. And the second question. You can tell briefly -- I have a citizens' appeal -- the essence of Rotterdam Plus, and what's the crime, and what's our claim to this scheme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u137	Dear colleague Krivenko, our bill concerns the sphere of green energy. I think that you and I are also discussing the schemes that are in energy, the criminal activity of the NCREKP, which is just trying to get used on tariffs, on Ukrainians, and these tariffs, the surplus of them, will go into oligarchy and political circles. And we know how the NCRECR has been blocked for this very purpose. And now the Supreme Council, well, unlocked, I don't know, in a way. Well, it's legal, really, such a precedent is very dangerous. However, you are asking the right questions. About our coal mines. I think the Supreme Council and the authorities of Ukraine should give a signal to the miners, their children, and whether they will be, well, the children of miners, the grandchildren of miners; or whether they should go to these specialties, in which areas. I think the dialogue is open, it's very unforgivable, it's got to be. Those objects that need to be built need to be constructed; those objects that need to be closed, unfortunately, must be closed, but people should be compensated, people should be re-educated, as we saw in Germany, as we saw in Britain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u138	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u139	They must do so in order for us to be honest with people. This route has been passed by a very large number of countries. The old industrial regions are everywhere, but you don't have to steal and steal on the mines, on the subsidies, on the subsidies and on the mines we now have. We need to be honest with people, face them honestly, and talk about difficult issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u140	Colleagues! I'm asking you to take your place, Your Honor. And I invite you to the words of the co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Dmitry Andryevsky. Mr. Dmitri! And Dmitri, our colleague, Mr. Dmitry Josephovich, will inform us of the committee's position regarding the two bills that we have heard, the alternative ones, and then there will be debates between factions and the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u141	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the committee submits to the first reading a draft of the Law amending the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the Improvement of Investment Opportunities in the Field of Electricity Production from Alternative Sources (Registration No. 6081) and an alternative bill No. 6081-1, submitted by the People's Deputy Rybczyn. Laws aimed at removing barriers to new renewable energy projects are proposed to limit the technical conditions for electrical power plants using alternative sources of energy to three years. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the information we have heard from the authors of this law. Today, Ukraine’s only energy system is able to absorb about 5 gigawatts of electricity from alternative sources. But last year, about 4.5 gigawatts have already issued technical conditions for companies, most of which do not make any investments in the industry. Thus, there is a shadow market of technical conditions, and this clearly does not contribute to the development of alternative sources of energy and the development of this direction in Ukraine. So I'm sure this bill is very right and it needs our attention and support in the first reading. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that Bill 6081 can be based on it. Our committee supports this view, and the second reading could take into account individual proposals for Bill 6081-1. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention and would like to support this important development from alternative sources of electricity bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u142	Thank you for the committee's position. Colleagues, do you need to sign up for a question to a coconspirator? There's no need. If you'll excuse me, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion right now, for a faction statement, and then it'll be from the deputies, please, from the factions. And during these discussions, you have the right to express your position on two alternative bills. Dear colleagues! Please, Olega Láška, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u143	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Who among the deputies communicates with people should know exactly that the majority of Ukrainians spend most of their budget on a utility station, earning a penny’s salary, receiving a meager pension, working honestly all their lives, giving most of it to medicines and utilities. What do you have to do to make people pay less for residential services? This is the first question of energy modernisation, because, for example, in the next year's budget, more than 70 billion dollars in housing and utility subsidies and less than 1 billion dollars in energy-generating money. And people say, go to the bank, take loans to change boilers, windows, doors and so on. Who will lend loans to a pensioner in a village or in a city or a family with a minimum income? This should therefore be a matter of national importance and funding at the expense of the state budget. That's why our team has registered and is seeking to adopt legislation to provide at least 10 percent of the budget for the subsidy, to target energy-generating, so that people can change boilers, windows, doors, heat-trucks, boilers, and, therefore, reduce energy consumption and, as a result, reduce the cost of residential services. The second strategic issue to reduce the cost of utilities is the energy dependency of the country. More to extract your own gas, because when we buy expensive imported gas, it means that every Ukrainian pays for it. That is why the radical party’s initiative reduced significantly last week, to 12 percent and 6 percent of the rent for gas production. The more we extract gas, the less money we're going to spend abroad. So there's going to be a stable bracelet, stable prices, not that mess that today is about chaos and disorder and the irresponsibility of power and corruption is what happens when people get impoverished and everyone pays for it. In particular, I would like to put a stop to the issue of coal-dependent energy. Some helpful idiots blocked Donbas, told him, and disliked Ukrainian coal. What were they blocking? This year, 17 million tons of coal were bought from Russia and paid over $2 billion. I said, where's the Ukrainian interest? Self-employed miners, tax-free budgets. Ukraine lost $2 billion a year in foreign exchange, $40 billion in taxes, hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs, and we pay Russian coal miners. You have, those who blocked and did anti-Ukrainian things, you have to take political responsibility primarily because every Ukrainian has suffered. And today, in tariffs, we pay, including the cost of Russian coal. It's just an unacceptable policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u144	30 seconds. We're done. Please, Ivan Krulko. John Krulko, I'm sorry, he's telling you, Mr. Odarchenk gives the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, a very topical and serious question is now being addressed by the Supreme Council. Clearly, energy independence for our nation is at the root of the rapid development of alternative sources of energy. But to me, there seem to be some naive expectation here that the authorities here believe that the owners of Oblenergo, and I said that the 10th skynergy in Ukraine is owned by VS Energy, the deputy of the State of the Russian Babakov, who, by the way, is under EU sanctions, will he allow the development of alternative energy sources on the grounds of his arch-energy? As far as I'm concerned, under no circumstances, because as a representative of the Russian capital, certainly interested in Ukrainians buying expensive gas, they were. were on the verge of an energy crisis. As I think, we need to put order in the skyscrapers and create tools to influence these owners who are now outside of Ukraine before we consider building alternative sources of energy. I'm elected Mayor of Herson and Herson County, and I can testify that the Herson Oblenergo, which belongs to the VS Energy, is actually pressing on the population today, on my conviction, creating preconditions for dissatisfaction with the power of the people. They're shutting down completely without anyone there on the basis of the elevator, the utility lighting, and people, I emphasize, have been in prison for months on the 20th, 16th floor without being able to go down because the elevator doesn't work. And today, without creating the conditions for these shells to be influenced by the state, we can also count on alternative energy to develop. To our belief, we would need to create an institution here to influence them. Such an institution exists in Ukraine and is established in the banking sphere. If the banks are not working, a temporary administration institution is introduced into the bank. And that's completely justified. But, look, there's a lot more people than the customers of the banks. And so, in our view, first of all, the adoption of the bill, which provides for the introduction of temporary state administrations, would create conditions for the influence of the Ukrainian State on the skynergo and then, as a result, a violent development, including an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u146	Thank you. The next performance is IgorShurma from the Opposition Block. No, it's Mr. Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u147	Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues, let me remind you of some data. How much talk is going on about Ukraine's energy dependency, about the priorities for green energy development, which is what we have today? On January 23, 2017, the head of the State Agency for Energy Efficiency, Energy Conservation of Ukraine took the initiative to set up certain construction times for investors who intend to build renewable energy facilities. According to him, please note that today the technical conditions are issued to developers of projects on an uninterrupted basis. And as a result of this, I'm going to repeat the previous speaking, the limit power of renewable energy objects that can work in a combined energy system is 5.2 gigawatts, and so far, 4.5 technical conditions have been issued for the integration of renewable energy objects, of which only 37 have been put into service for 2013-2015. As it turns out, technology has been produced -- no one builds anything, but it's only been traded in with this technical documentation. To address this problem, a draft law on the limitation of technical conditions for renewable energy objects has been developed. So first it says that it's going to be published on an uninterrupted basis, and then on the other hand it says that we're going to enter a term. So the problem is that you can connect to active networks without modernizing them. So without denying the problem, we believe that the project will violate investor rights, which is very and very dangerous. Dear colleagues, today we are violating the rights of some investors, and tomorrow there will be other investors, because there will be a problem with those who issue technical documentation permits. This will be a very bad example for the future. And the next. I. You know, I'm not a political thinker or a comrade to the chairman of the Supreme Council, but as a national deputy of Ukraine, I appeal to the majority. Well, you can't treat the chairman of the Supreme Council like that. Why should he appeal to you: come, sit, vote? People good, the security issue of the energy state is voted six times to win 150 votes for the reduced procedure. And if you think there's a lot of attention to this issue today, we want to talk about it, no, there's no vote to go through the shorter procedure. That's why I'm talking to the coalition first. Stop demeaning Parliament, otherwise you claim and confirm that this Parliament has exhausted itself, it needs to be self-resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u148	Thank you, Mr. Igor, for your support. I think we're going to have a level of discipline. I just want to announce that, according to the Constitution, I am not the chairman, but the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much. From the Rebirth Party, Jacenko gives the floor to Pisarenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Head. What I'm saying is that these bills, they're primarily about changing philosophy -- philosophy, which is based on the new economy of the country. I'm one of the authors of Bill 6081, but I think that both bills are essentially addressing the challenge that today is facing changes that will help make more effective investments in green energy objects. In fact, I'm not going to repeat these numbers, they're very loud today. Now it's virtually impossible to invest in green energy. There are speculators everywhere, people who are reselling projects that were designed ten years ago, seven years ago, five years ago. Sometimes there are projects that are built on 100, 200, 500 megawatts of old technology that are no longer used in the construction of green energy objects. Still, a person with documents never launches until they buy a product that is not needed for investors. I'd like to add a few more pluses to these bills and tell you about them. Of course, green energy will help us to make the country safer. This will allow us to have an additional resource compared to ours, to nuclear energy. We all remember Chernobyl, and we don't want that to happen. And we need to keep track of what's going on in another sphere, another part of our energy. I think the tariff issue here is less discussed in part of this bill, because green energy is yet to be paid, part of the pay, and on the part of the state is still a long way to go. But we're talking about changing philosophy again. 2Green Energy is what will make a new economy, an economy that will allow us to think about future generations that will live in this state, and that will build this state after us. I would like to say what we need to do if we want to take the next step after this bill to really get investors to come, to also talk about the guarantees that we are giving today to investors who are coming to Ukraine. I want to remind her that one of these investors was a Chinese company, and we eventually reduced its tariff by a special law, and we violated all the guarantees for investors. And as much as we don't accept and approve good drafts, if we don't guarantee the investor's presence on the market, there will be no investors. So in addition to this bill, we need to talk about the guarantees that the state should give to investors for green energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u150	Thank you. So the factions are finished. Colleagues, now nine minutes for the national MPs, three minutes. And I'm asking the national MPs who want to take part in this discussion to record. Please, 9 minutes for the show. Three deputies. Is there a loudmouth and a wolf to give a word for the performance? No, they're on. Six minutes you're gonna talk, right? So the wolf gives the word for Galashuk. So 6 minutes to go. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Please show me the screen. Dear colleagues! But the situation today in exchange rates of dollars and bracelets is the result of the weak industry and the inequitable economic policy that is being pursued by the authorities today. These are directly related issues of financial stability, economic development, and energy that we are now talking about. Please look at this graph. Below you can see the level of import dependency of the United States of America and China. Top curve, you see the level of import dependency of Ukraine. We have imports of more than 50 percent of GDP. And in the United States and China, that's less than 20 percent. And a lot of this imports, absolutely groundless, are energy, and this is a finished product that Ukraine is producing itself today or could produce. Today, we're sitting on a needle of import addiction that creates financial instability in a country that creates unemployment that creates emigration. How can this be corrected? There's only one way to fix this. Because of a massive export expansion. Selling Ukrainian goods abroad. And it's smart import. Buying goods in Ukraine that we ourselves produce or are capable of producing. Both for the first and for the second require a strong, powerful, fundamental Ukrainian industry that releases goods. You can't sell what you don't make. So today, the main problem for the Ukrainian industry is that it's in the plane of energy. Do you know what the question is most often asked by industry, employers, entrepreneurs at those meetings that I hold in the region as the deputy leader of the Radical Party of Economic Policy, as the head of the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship? Question number one is joining engineering networks. And this is the question of all kinds of engineering networks without exception. How does this work today? Those of you who worked in the real economy know about this problem. When you want to build a factory, a factory, any production, an agro-processing complex, you have to come to a monopolist, you have to put technical conditions out there, absolutely out of place, then you're going to get bribes for a little less technical conditions, then you're going to build a substation, you're going to give it to a monopoly, you're going to pay the state for that extra cost, you're going to think about it, and the fourth time you're going to pay for the investment component in a tariff. So investors, manufacturers, agrarians, entrepreneurs are basically just being robbed today, forced to give away their assets free of charge, their resources, pay bribes, and pay taxes for the budget. Tell us what wise investor will come to Ukraine to build production so that we have an export expansion so that we can have an import. But no one will come here on such terms. All the other problems are secondary: and the cost of credit, and the rate of taxes, and so on. When you can't even build production because conditions are completely dragonish, conditions are completely anticompetitive. In order to correct this fundamental problem, the Radical Party team, together with the co-authors of all factions and groups of parliament (and we are very grateful to all colleagues, to all the industrial lobby that supports this) registered in Parliament Bill 6671 on free joining the engineering networks, which envisions a model that is similar to the one that works in the United States to the one that works in Israel. We need bold steps today that are even more effective than European practices. Logic is very simple: You want to join engineering networks, build a new plant, please, or get a ready connection point, or if a monopoly requires you to build some infrastructure within six months of completion of construction, a monopoly under this law will be obliged to fully offset the costs incurred by an investor. And this will put market logic in place, which will bring economic justice to investors, monopolistics, and society. It's good for manufacturing, it's good for industry, it's good for agriculture, it's good for entrepreneurs, it's good for the real economy. Moreover, this bill has already been considered by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Consonantly supported. He is ready to be considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It needs to be accepted immediately on the basis of a second reading, and we need to launch a new model that will remove the enraged barrier to the economy that is being built today. Look at the ridiculous investments in the Ukrainian economy today. The National Bank is forecasting $2 billion of foreign direct investment for the following year. Do you know how much we need to involve this in order to align with Poland at the level of per capita investment? I'll tell you, $200 billion. For 100 years, we will catch up with Poland at this rate if we do not make radical decisions today in the interests of the Ukrainian industry, Ukrainian agrarians, Ukrainian entrepreneurs, who want to produce products here. So we encourage and adopt this law that we are currently considering, and I am also its co-author, and I want to move as quickly as possible into the hall and adopt the Free Networking Act, which is supported by all manufacturers, the entire real sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u152	Thank you. And I'll remind you that when we discuss the bill, we have to speak on the subject of the bill. There's always a mechanism to take a break and make a statement. And that's why, colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement by the national MPs. Eutusek Sergei gives the floor to John Krulk. And then we go to the vote. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. In a few minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u153	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction at its meeting decided to support the ideas of these bills. We will definitely support our colleague Alexi Rybchin's bill. And this bill is designed to make sure that investors who invest in alternative sources of energy actually fulfill their commitments. And that is not to say that the reserves of power are reserved, and then the investor does not fulfill his obligations. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to adopt one of these two bills in the first reading. But at the same time, let's see what's actually going on in the so-called electricity market that doesn't exist. We have an oligarch, which is a private structure, all of which belongs to the oligarchs. Some of these archetypes belong to so-called investors from the aggressor country, the Russian Federation. What are they doing? They're bullying entrepreneurs today, they're demanding bribes for every connection, they're demanding that Ukrainian citizens build their extra capacities, which they're still taking on balance. That's what's happening right now. Does the NCRECRCR act as a regulator in this case? No, it's not working. Moreover, the NCRECR is doing absolutely wrong when investments from the European Union, from countries, are blocked because of their inaction. The United States, from Canada. And this is the work that the unarmed eye sees completely today, and it is related to the fact that this body was created in an unconstitutional way, it was appointed by the President without constitutional authority. The same is true of us in the face of lies. Right now, we're back with some colleagues from Fatherland in Suma. How does it work, especially "Sumigaz?" The Sumigaz now shuts down, in the heating season, from the citizens of gas supply for one reason: that people don't set counters for the house, but they demand that a lie be set up for them by counters for each particular family and family. This is because, on the one hand, they say we have a gas market, an energy market. There really isn't one or the other. Monopolies work. Monopolies act brutally, they raise money from people, they force the budget today to pay them subsidies that do not contribute to energy efficiency, energy conservation, but they just charge the pockets of oligarchi groups. That's why we think that these laws should be passed, but on the other hand, we need to make arrangements with monopolies who are actually being bullied by Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u154	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies were completed. Now, a closing statement for the chairman of the committee, Alexander Georgievic. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. Two minutes later, the decision is made. Please, two minutes for the closing word, Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you sincerely for the deep, systematic, professional discussion that has taken place. But maybe the tonakal that is in this room is saying one very important thing, that the days of energy and discussion of the problems that have accumulated in the energy sector, in the tariffs, in the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights should be conducted more often and more in the Ukrainian Parliament. I would like to thank Mr. Savichuk and Deputy Prime Minister Zubko for his constructive cooperation and position, and I would like to thank all the factions and the Radical Party. But for the sake of justice, Mr. Oleg, I want to say that the Buy Ukrainian initiative, the increase in Ukrainian gas production, the increase in investment in the energy-efficient economy sector is not just a radical party initiative, because I am a co-author of many bills. And what I'm saying is, here's an initiative called Peter Dustenk's Block and the People's Front and the Fatherland and Self-Help. I am glad that energy is starting to unite the hall. Friends, we're buying Ukrainian and investing in Ukraine -- that's the right formula for our country today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u156	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please come into the hall. And I'm betting on the vote. I'll be the first to make a proposal to the committee: based on 6081. Make it up to me, please. So, colleagues, can we vote? I'm just going to say that I'm going to base 6081 on the proposals set out in Rybčina Bill 6081-1, and I'm going to put it to a vote. It's a deal, yeah. So we're voting, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation to improve investment opportunities in electricity generation from alternative sources (6081), taking into account the proposals of Bill 6081 on the basis of which, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote please, colleagues. Please support the base, taking into account proposals 6081-1. 6081 on the ground, please vote and please support. Vote. That's just the basis, colleagues. [[13:41:49]] For 218. What is the point? [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Dombrowski, one minute, tell us what proposals are in the Rybčina bill. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the proposals of the alternative bill reported to Mr. Rybchin, asked him questions. And we made the right, consolidated decision: based on the adoption of the first law and the work between the first and second readings of the proposals that are in the alternative bill. My colleagues and friends, I would very much like to support this version as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m0.u158	It's supported, isn't it? Colleagues, I'm going to put you back on the committee proposal. But for what it's worth, we can just knock down the bill. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for Bill 6081. Please vote and please support. Please vote back on the bill. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. [[13:43:23]] For 216 Now, colleagues, then I'll put it up. So, colleagues, right now I'm going to put the next bill, if he doesn't get the votes, then I'm going to put it back. It's a deal, isn't it? That's right. I'm voting on Bill 6081-1, alternative. If it doesn't work, then I'll put it back to 6081. So the committee didn't support him. I'll bet 6081-1. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:44:25]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. So the alternative didn't work. And, colleagues, now I'm offering to return. And I want to stress once again that if we don't make the right decision now, we can just put down an important bill. I met the requirement, I made an alternative. Now, colleagues, let's go back to 6081. And I'm asking everyone. First of all, return, I ask everyone to support this proposal. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. During the vote, I ask to be in the workplace. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 6081. Please vote and please support the return. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be united. [[13:45:35]] For 223 Three votes, I see, didn't make it. Please invite you to take your seats. [[Noise Nodes]] When you're not at the polls, it's contempt for the whole Parliament. I warn you a few times when there is a vote. It's simply, my friends, to stop disrespecting one another and disrespecting one another's parliament. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I'm going to make another motion to go back to voting for bill 6081. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:46:35]] For 224 Two votes. Once again, three times, I'll put up my colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] I'll do it one last time. If there are no votes, then, colleagues, I'm going to make the following suggestion: return to the committee. And I, colleagues, don't understand this position when the drafters put the bill at risk, I just don't get it. Please come into the hall, everyone, please take your seats. Please take up your jobs. So, are we ready to vote, faction heads? You're ready, aren't you? I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 6081. Please vote and please support. Vote. Give us a chance to consider, vote for the return. Please be supportive. Please vote for the return. Vote. [[13:47:52]] For 224 Let me show you through the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 58, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 15, "Fatherhood" – 2, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party of Rebirth" – 4. The card didn't work. I'll do it again, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. No, colleagues, we won't change our minds anymore. Please. I'm asking you, colleagues, not to come out of the hall. I'll put it to the vote again. Two votes is not enough. And I'm asking you not to leave the hall. Please prepare for the vote, invite the deputies. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. So, are the colleagues ready to vote? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 6081. I ask everyone to vote carefully, we are short two votes, and please take part in the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. To return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Careful! Every voice. [[13:49:32]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, this is a paradoxical situation -- one vote. It didn't work, I see. But, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Please take your seats. I'll do it again. Please support the return to the draft Law 6081. Please vote. Why don't you vote, head of the committee? Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:50:24]] For 225 Guys, I got you. I saw who came in. It's simple. Why didn't you make it if we voted the fifth time? How did you not make it, colleagues? I now make the following proposal under the Rules: return to the Committee for re-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] And you explain to me, colleagues, everyone who screams now, do we vote once or twice? You disrespect Parliament when you vote while you're in the towers, and you only go in when we put the fifth or the sixth time. Colleagues, all right. On the demand of all factions, I'll put it again. If there are no votes, we'll go to the committee for a re-read. I propose to return to draft Law 6081. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:51:53]] For 227 Now I have two, two suggestions. First sentence - as amended, second - not amended. I'll take the first one. So I put the first vote: the committee's proposal. Who supports the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation to improve investment opportunities in the field of electricity generation from alternative sources (6081), the Committee's proposal on the basis? Anyone who supports the committee's proposal, please vote. Please support the committee's proposal as a basis. Please vote, please support. [[13:52:52]] For 227 The law is passed. The first reading was based on the decision taken, not on the law adopted. Colleagues, we've got five minutes left. We won't be able to consider the bill. I want to read more announcements that have come to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For the Rights of Energy Consumers" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Vojcietski Victoria Mikhaylovna, Sold to Oksana Petrovna, Gosja Igor Volodymirovich, Golub Vladislav Volodymirovich, Podlisecki Lev Theophilovich, Rybčina Alexija Mihajlovich, and Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich. Welcome to the creation of an interfractional union. And according to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is concluded. Please all arrive at 16 o'clock in the room to continue the consideration of the issues of the fuel and energy complex. And, colleagues, I remind you, the next is the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas. At 4 p.m., everyone please come to the hall.
