ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, everyone in position? Can we have the registration? Please take your seats. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:08:07]] 354 for. Oh, it's registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. My colleagues, I would like to point out that we have the first block of "the issue of the protection of the rights of internally displaced persons." But we've got a statement from two factions -- the People's Front and the Radical Party -- for a break, they're ready to replace it with a performance. Three minutes. Who will speak from factions? Oleg Lazko. Three minutes, Oleg Lazko. And I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, and in three minutes, we're going to move on to the day-to-day issues. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Tonight, a diversion took place at artillery depots in the Kharkiv region. And today, thousands of rescuers, military personnel, are saving the lives of the locals, saving our native Kharkishte. This is a diversion -- what happened in Kharkiv district at artillery depots. But it's no less a diversion when there's a huge number of people sitting in Parliament with multiple passports other than Ukrainian. Because when you, your esteemed colleagues, gained a parliamentary mandate and took an oath, you swore allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I have a question: What kind of people do you serve when you have a few passports in your womb? When you hold a Ukrainian passport here, you have Russian passports, offshore passports, Israeli passports, and all other passports. That's why we think that being in Parliament with several passports is a diversion against the Ukrainian people, a diversion against Ukraine's national interests. That is why we are so insistently demanding that the law be passed to ensure that the Ukrainian National Deputies are deprived of their parliamentary mandate when they have several passports. Our faction has registered an appropriate bill. President Prašenko introduced his bill on the same subject, defining it as urgent. It's been two weeks since the president passed this bill, and it's still pending. Why? Because the committee under the vote, Gregory Nemiri, is blocking the draft bill, deliberately blocking it, citing various reasons, deliberately blocking it because they are following the direction, apparently, of Julia Timoshenko, in whom a friend of Gas Corruption Oneshenko with five passports. And that's why you want to block the adoption of this law. I demand that the Head of the Supreme Council do not humiliate himself or the Parliament, you have given the commission of the committee several times to review this bill without delay, put it into the room, but it is still missing. Mr. Head, either you give the commission that is being carried out, or you select the committee at the recess, hold its meetings, and take the document to the hall. Ukrainians demand that national deputies who have several passports serve as deputies. The ones who block this one. The adoption of the law, they're diversifying Russia's interests, they're diversifying Ukrainians. We're going to break your back, and we're going to take mandates from those who have multiple passports.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u3	One minute, a lineup, Gregory Nemira. Please. It was called a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, not for the first time before, gently speaking, speaker, he simply grossly distorts the facts and provokes those present, by the way, and the Head of the Supreme Council to engage in illegal activities. I would like to say to this previous speaker that the Committee, in its entirety yesterday, refused to consider, in violation of the law, the bill of the President of Ukraine. Yesterday the Head of the Supreme Council agreed with the committee’s position, and 14 days later, March 28th for consideration of the bill. You. Your, your speaker, the bill is on Mr. Knazevitch's committee from Peter Prashenko's Block. Please ask Mr. Knazevitch's committee to have your bill reviewed, Mr. speaker. Everything else is outside the law. The committee has never violated or violated the law, as opposed to you, the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u5	I want to tell you, colleagues, that I personally dealt with this situation yesterday. As far as I know, the committee was informed that the number of people who did not fit the quorum had gathered and that was why it had not been conducted. Indeed, yesterday Gregory Nemira brought me a letter from a committee signed by him, no agreement with this position I gave, I took it to the attention, and I strongly believe that the issue of dual citizenship and the depriving of the mandates of those deputies who have dual citizenship should be dealt with more quickly and put into the Hall. I can't do this without a committee decision, but this is my position, which I strongly believe and believe is right. Dear colleagues! Now we're moving on to the agenda and I want to tell you that I'm going to propose one thing for the efficiency of our work so that we can, during today's work, vote off the 12-12.30 break in the work of our session. This is the joint position of the committee heads meeting that I conducted yesterday to get us to see more bills, and we're going to be asked to take a break at 12.30 without interruption. And I'm very counting on the support of the deputies on this issue because then when it comes to thinking that we're not going to be able to go through all the bills, so let's work, let's work harder, let's look at the bills. So, colleagues, the first draft of the law on "protection of the rights of internally displaced persons" is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons" (2481). The author of the bill is Irina Heratchenko. The Committee on Human Rights of National Minorities and National Relations proposes: And, colleagues, I'll be the first to ask you to consider it in a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, the reduced procedure is 24,81. Please vote, please support. [[10:16:05]] For-140. 140. My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. And I want to point out that this issue is supported by all factions, it's not too complicated, and I'm asking you to support its consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote and please vote. Please be supportive. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[10:16:44]] For-147 Colleagues, I'll put it back together again, colleagues. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And I ask the heads of factions to organize, mobilize people. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for a brief motion for draft Law 2481. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please support, every voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. [[10:17:30.]] For 165 165 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! In fact, I'm very sorry that this bill has been going on for two years just waiting for its consideration in the session room because its adoption is out of date. According to articles 21, 24 of the Constitution, all citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms. But for the time being, internally displaced persons who are placed in habitable places of compact settlement are either small towns with complex modules, or dormitories, health camps, boarding houses, and so on are very often faced with higher costs of utilities, electrical and thermal energy, natural gas. And such discriminatory acts are allowed both by the owners of property and by utility providers. Therefore, the main purpose of this bill is to restore the rights of internally displaced persons to utilities, natural gas at appropriate prices and tariffs, such as other Ukrainian citizens, and to eliminate these discriminations that have arisen. I would like to point out, fellow colleagues, that this bill was passed with co-authors, colleagues from various MP factions from the People's Front and Fatherland and the Peter Prashenko Block, with whom we visited dozens of these places internally together in 14-15 years. de. a compact settlement of internally displaced persons. And in fact, this bill today has positive conclusions both by the Scientific and Experimental Authority and by all, in fact, by the Professional Committees. There's nothing to discuss at all, so we're proposing from the copyright team that we accept it not as a basis, but as a whole today, because this bill -- and this is unacceptable -- is waiting for its next two years today. And we must care for those who have remained faithful to Ukraine, citizens of Ukraine, not discriminate against them. So I'm asking the copyright team to vote on it, not as a basis, but as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u7	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Human Rights Committee, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u8	I'm very glad that after two months of blocking the actual consideration of draft laws that apply to the rights of forced displaced persons, we have at least two such bills in order today. As Irina Herashchenko said, this bill is quite clear, it aims to eliminate discrimination against forced displaced persons in the area of municipal services. I mean, like this is a social bill that aims at avoiding the cost of utilities for internally displaced persons in their compact residences. What is it? Gourmets, sanatoriums, other places of compact residence, where those who are. they own these dormitories, sanatoriums, and so on, and so on, they actually have three times the price of community services, five times the price of domestic movers who still don't have the money for it. Think, for three years now, since the beginning of forced displacement, of war on Donbassa, and the rule of government, and not always, for partial compensation of utilities, 442 bracelets. What are we talking about? In one Kiev alone, we have a thousand. 160,000 displaced persons, 1.7 million in Ukraine. Therefore, the committee unanimously proposes to the Supreme Council to support this bill. And I also want to agree and support the bill's authors' proposal that we can support it in general today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please, Danchenko. Well, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u10	Please tell Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, "The Self-Help Union" certainly supports this bill. At the same time, we all need to understand that people living in sanatoriums today, as temporary displaced persons, do not have direct contracts with suppliers of water supply, water supply, heat supply. Service providers — water or heat, or energy, or gas — have contracts with the very owners as prophylaxis. And they can live in a population that actually uses rooms temporarily as hotels, while internally displaced persons live there permanently. We should point out that. In this bill that really internally displaced persons have to pay for municipal services on tariffs as for the population, but the volume of services provided is determined by the corresponding contracts between the providers of these services and the entities where they live. Therefore, there is no method of distribution and determination of the number of services consumed in tourist complexes today. So if we were to point out that this volume of services consumed is determined by contracts made by the parties, that would be the case. But, of course, support is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u12	Thank you. Yuszkova Tetjana Leonidivna is Chizmaru. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u13	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Clearly, the problems faced by temporarily displaced persons today are very solid and, God willing, none of us today will have them. Because people are deprived of their homes, they live in another territory without having their own well - arranged housing. But this bill, it's more declarative, it doesn't solve global issues, because we're going to run into everything equally, in the matter of what's been raised -- the direct agreements and the conflicts that are yesterday, they're just because the state doesn't solve the global problem. And we see a beating in the well of the spring. And there are so many problems about the whole country. The state does not solve the problem of displaced persons globally. This year we have allocated only 3.2 billion dollars for their maintenance instead of buying them housing, let alone temporary housing. At a time when only the Lugansk region received 5 billion dollars last year free of charge. The occupied territory is where we finance the money, and by staying homeless and moving to the mainland. To Ukraine, to Ukraine’s home country, we cannot afford housing. There's a bunch of housing that's not built and built that can't be sold at low prices around Kiev, around district and district centers, and they can't sell buildings that are on the verge of bankruptcy, and we, at the same time, finance ORDLO, power for 5 billion, and we, at the same time, on the budget committee yesterday, accept the so-called Ryaba Chicken for one and a half billion dollars. So as long as we don't globally solve the problem of people who are homeless, and we realize that the problems with occupied territories won't be solved in one day, it's a long period, and we can't say that they've been temporarily displaced, they've actually been living for three years, and maybe they'll live for another three or five years. So without adequate housing, children who are there, which we show, are not the humane attitude toward keeping them in hostels and in temporary housing. Please support this law in the first reading, but take a closer look at the problem of temporary displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u14	Thank you. Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, this bill is perhaps the most important for refugees from the occupied Donbas and Crimea among those we have adopted in the last year. He sets a basic guarantee for our citizens who have lost their home because of Russia’s aggression, and I guarantee that they will pay the same amount of community service as those who live peacefully in their homes. True, there is a great deal of evidence that the providers of utilities instead of compassion for these people show only a desire to gain income. Yes, temporary housing for displaced persons is considered either by hotels or hostels -- and they charge for electricity as for commercial consumers. This law corrects this injustice. But the project must be complemented with several other guarantees. First of all, it is necessary to set a requirement where fines are applied when limits are exceeded. When internally displaced persons are placed in re-profiled rooms, there is often a situation that lacks old limits, and new ones cannot be established because of lack of agreement by private suppliers. So I would like to point out that the increased tariff for movement of the consumption limit is not applicable to displaced persons. In addition, I believe it is necessary to establish that if displaced persons are living in separate premises and have separate accounting facilities, it is prohibited to exclude the premises as a whole because of the indebtedness of the individual refugee. In view of these rights, I propose to accept the project as a basis and to develop it into a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u16	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the last performance, Dudenkov, and then we go to the vote. And so I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall and take your jobs. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u17	Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the fact that in three years, the authorities have done nothing for forced displaced people. And now the Supreme Council, looking at the bill on internally displaced persons, is trying to solve the problems, unfortunately, only in part. The first thing we have to do is adopt a comprehensive national programme, a program to support internally displaced persons. Such a program should include answers to such questions as assistance in the employment of displaced persons, providing them with temporary housing, paying for adequate government assistance, and psychological adaptation. And this has to be clearly anchored in legislation. Regrettably, forced displaced persons are being discriminated against today. And a powerful testimony to this is their recent beating in the Desert Water sanatorium, forced eviction from the Odessa sanatoriums and much more. Contrary to Ukrainian law, the authorities hand-in-the-rescue checks pensions, and we've all heard of the terrible incident that took place in Mariupola when a woman died in the savings room, waiting for her to be granted a pension. We demand that the issue of pension verification and pension payments today be resolved at the national level to stop discrimination against forced displaced persons. This bill is supported by the Opposition Block. But we need to consider a more complex issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u19	So, colleagues, there hasn't been a word in the People's Front. One minute, Squirrel. And let's move on to making a decision. Come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Well, first of all, I'd like everyone to point out that in principle it's probably the only bill or one of the only bills where the actual authors of this bill are some charming women MPs, our colleagues. I'd like to talk to you about that. And so with all due respect, I'd like to ask those women in principle who are criticizing this initiative, and I'd like to ask again when this bill was registered. And how long this problem has been in principle for us today in Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to focus on what, in principle, the government has been doing everything in the last three years to ensure that temporary displaced persons receive adequate and compensation and get paid for their proper living. So our task with you is to make sure that they have, in principle, the right conditions for maintaining and residing in Ukraine. Because these are our Ukrainians we have to stand up for. People who stand up for Ukraine’s independence have the right to defend the state. Therefore, the request, all fellow MPs, without impeding political affiliations, is to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u21	Thank you, colleagues! During the discussion, there were warnings about the bill. Now I'm giving the author one minute. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u22	First of all, I want to thank the session room and all the factions that have come forward to support this bill. Because it remains relevant over the past two years. Although, in fact, today there are far fewer compact settlements than in the terrible March of 2015. I fully agree with this offer made by Mrs. Babak from Self-Help and then added and extended by Mr. Odarchenko from Fatherland. And I now propose that we introduce the following technical law and vote on this law as a basis, a bill, and in general. To make it clear that the amount of services consumed should be taken into account in accordance with the contract and should be taken into account in the application of fines in the event that this amount is exceeded, fixed, serviced. Because he obviously has the same thing. Well, we also have to avoid new discrimination here. So with such technical legal rights, I propose to vote now as a basis and as a whole. We have correctly formulated, I think, the position expressed by "the Fatherland" and "self-help." And I'm asking the room to support this as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u23	So let's move on to decision-making. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons (received as regards the Provision of Municipal Services) (No.2481). First of all, the committee's proposal as a basis. Please vote, please support 2481 as a basis. Vote, fellows! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:34:07]] For 284 Now a proposal has been made to accept, in general, those amendments that the bill's author has announced from the rostrum. Who supports the proposal 2481 with the proposals under the transcript by Irina Heratchenko and with technical legal rights, please vote. [[10:34:45.]] For 277 The law is passed. Next draft of the Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine (No.4022a). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:35:20]] For 193 193 for. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u24	This is the second bill today we're looking at that might have been considered long ago, but somehow it didn't go into the hall. We saw how the first bill was actually supported by all factions. I would also like this example to be followed in considering the following bills concerning forced displaced persons, who in Ukraine are nearly 2 million. This bill is very simple. When the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons was passed in the Supreme Council, there remained disagreement with the law governing the activities of the State Migration Service. It was required. for a long time, and it is now required of the State Migration Service that they, the forced settlers, come to them, put this stamp on them, and only then could they be accounted for. Thus, the law provides for a list of documents to which information on the person’s whereabouts is provided to exclude information on the collection of forced displaced persons. As early as October 2016, the Human Rights Committee had considered the bill. If it had been voted in October of last year, it would not have taken nearly six months for forced migrants to bow down to the State Migration Service for printing to demand bribes, as is often the case. So it's a very clear bill, it's worked and supported by all the members of the committee. I hope he's supported by all the factions. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, it is proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Restless. Colleagues, there's a need to discuss this bill, it's, in fact, completely technical. Please log in from factions: two-for-two-again. Please, Mrs. Queen. Mrs. Natalie will be speaking, turn on the microphone. And I'm going to ask the boys to step away from Mrs. Natalia so that we can see her, please don't hesitate to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block absolutely supports this bill, but once again we urge and point out that today we need to address internally displaced persons in a comprehensive manner. Over the course of the year, we have insisted that we consider Bill 4794 on the status and social protection of civilians. Over the course of the year, we draw your attention to what is going on in total lawlessness with the payment of pensions for retired displaced persons. As soon as we got the Pension Fund report, we see from official sources that the number of pensioners in the UPR who were paid pensions per year has decreased by 407,000. Note that 407,000 persons have denied them the legal right to receive a pension. Once again, I would like to point out to the Chamber that there is now a major disaster in all the savings departments, when people spend hours in queues to confirm their legitimate right to get their pension. And I ask that my speech be counted as an appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, so that he can now understand what is happening in the country and resolve the issue and give people the pension they have earned. I also ask the speaker to consider all of the bills that are registered in Parliament on the subject of displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u27	Thank you. I'd like you to make a presentation as a deputy address and a follow-up by Mr. Lensky's national deputy from the Radical Party. Passes the word to Link, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Link.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u28	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. We will certainly support this technical, in fact, bill, but which slightly simplifies the lives of forced displaced people, removes unnecessary bureaucracy in document-making, but in fact it does not solve many of the problems that forced displaced people today have. And the most important problem for any person, as well as for the person who has lost their place of residence, is certainly the normal place of residence and work, and the wages to feed the family to feed the children to buy the cure -- these are the problems that are most troubling the displaced today. And for that, there are mechanisms in the state to solve these problems. By selecting and creating a social housing program for the movers, we will also start the construction industry. And we can build, in every place, a huge amount of out-of-built housing, where we just have to put the windows, put the doors, the settlers themselves are ready to come, and I know tens and hundreds of them, when they come in, they're doing the repairs themselves, only the necessary power to do it. And the next bill, which has already been drafted by the Radical Party, long awaited its adoption, is a bill that would allow forced displaced people to participate in the elections. For the third year in the country, this issue has not been resolved. We don't know if there's going to be a temporary election or another election, but we have to ensure the right to participate in every citizen in both local elections and parliamentary elections and presidential elections. And that's why this bill needs to be adopted, and all rights for all Ukrainians must be guaranteed, which are guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. And most importantly, the right to housing, the right to work and pay, because it's the only thing that can allow people to survive in our country today. A man without a job and without a salary in this country will not survive, he is simply destined to die and without a place to live for a very quick death. So we're going to protect our forced displaced people who have suffered from aggression from Russian invaders and we're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u29	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u30	And we can't accept and protect them for the third year even legislatively. So we vote and we solve their problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u31	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev gives Rybce's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u32	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. First of all, we owe it to the settlers, to the people who chose Ukraine and despite the hardships, despite the very demeaning treatment of them by the authorities, they are now fighting for the Ukrainian Donbas, the Ukrainian Crimea. The people we fought together for Ukrainian Donetsk, in Ukrainian Lugansk, now, at some point, they're treated worse than the people who came out of the places of captivity, because that bureaucracy, the help, the things that they're going through is just an inconvenience. That's why the "Fatherland" faction in full will vote in favour of this bill, and we support its consideration in the first and second readings at the same time. The Supreme Council has done much for the East and the Crimea. We passed a law that supports the moved higher education institutions, we passed a law that gives children the right to move from the occupied Donetsk and Lugansk to learn in the Ukrainian higher education colleges that are located in the displaced. Moved higher or located in the Donetsk and Lugansk region. We are actually taking these children, this year thousands of children have changed their place of residence and are studying in Ukraine. However, we still have to fight for the election rights of the displaced because people have already become members of the new communities, and they are lawless, even though some of them are chosen by the mayors or by the heads of the country, there are such cases. This year, Minfine did not have enough resources in the budget for the movers, this year less than in the past. Minfin was also forced to spend money on students who were learning, on their scholarships, and on their free living. Minsoc for every law we have, he'll come up with another help. It's a demeaning attitude towards people who are still in need, and look at how many people are suffering from blockposts, they just don't have either toilets, or heat, and how simple they are, even, there are cases where they're killed under enemy bullets or enemy shells. We have a lot to do to fight for our people, the Ukrainian Donbas, for the Ukrainian Crimea. And when there was a blockade.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u33	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u34	And when the bloc happened, the president led it by the PNBO Council, because we, in the oligarchs, took away businesses, but no one fights for those displaced people who were taken from their homes, seized small and medium-sized businesses, from our soldiers who were there, we need to activate the struggle. And I thank those people who are constantly fighting for it, they keep mentioning it in every square there is. We need to fight for people, for their hearts and minds, not just for territories, how our boys fight on the front. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u35	Thank you. Oxana's BIV Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the "Peter Prashenko Block" calls on MPs to support this bill, a constructive, pragmatic bill that reduces the logistics of obtaining documents, and also ensures freedom of movement. For the rest of my time, I'm reporting to the co-author of the Valery Paccan bill. Please turn on Valerie's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u37	Oksana Bilozer gave the word to Packano Valeria. Please, Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to mobilize now and adopt one of the most important laws. Since 2014, we've passed a number of laws, and now we have to systematize this legislation, and we have to help those internally displaced people who need it. Please note that tomorrow those people will return to Lugansk, Donetsk regions, Crimea, and will build Ukrainian power there. I'm more than convinced that this will happen in the near future, I'm more than convinced that these people who are our friends with you, colleagues, friends who have had to leave their homes, and now we have to do our utmost to help these people. At the legislative level, we're about to throw out fuses, such as location information, accounting help, and in this way we're going to help these people avoid the maximum number of bureaucratic fuses. Please all support and mobilize for. vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u39	Thank you. The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to attend. Two minutes, please. I'm sorry, there'll be a vote later, colleagues. So I ask everyone to come to the hall, and in two or three minutes, the vote will take place. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u40	My dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the issue of human rights, the issue of free movement of Ukrainian citizens, is at the centre of the constant attention of the work of the mine groups, particularly the humanitarian subgroup in Minsk. And I want to thank all the factions who have delegated their representatives to the mine platform in Parliament, where we report to the deputies every two weeks about our work. And actually, I want to say that, of course, we are all convinced that this ugly phenomenon as the checkpoints that exist today between the occupied Russian Federation and its fighters in the territory of Donbas and the controlled Ukrainian government of the territory should disappear from Ukrainian land on the day that we fully regain control of the Ukrainian-Russian border. Today, we have 400 kilometers of uncontrolled border. And it is the restoration of the border that will allow these KPCs to be removed and free to move freely to the citizens of Ukraine. At the same time, while there are CERs, we have the power to ensure that the ordinary citizens of these CERs pass as soon as possible. And actually, I want to inform you that for exactly a year now, the opening of the Golden KNPV is blocked by ORDLO fighters. Gold in the Luhansk region, which would actually help greatly to decompose other CERs in the Donetsk region. For a year, we've been asking questions about the opening of the Golden KEVA in Minsk and it's being blocked by representatives of the separate districts of the Luhansk region. And I want to inform you that a week ago during the Minsk Platform where OSCE co-ordinator Tony Frisch was present, representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament from various factions gave the mission of the OSCE, including to activate these negotiations and to facilitate the opening of the Golden CPV as soon as possible this month. We will carry out this commission to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u41	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote the bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine (4022), which is proposed by the committee, is proposed to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:50:25]] For 281 281 – yes. The law is passed, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a question with which the government strongly urged yesterday that it needs an immediate solution. This is the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for the implementation of the medium-term budget planning) (No.6161). And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[10:51:18]] For 178. 178. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, thank you very much for your support and support for the amendments to section VI of the Budget Code (for the implementation of the midterm budget planning). In fact, it's a very small law, one page at a time, but it's the first step towards an extremely large, systemic and, without exaggeration, perhaps the most important reform in the budgetary field. It's the introduction of a medium term, which is a 3-year-old, as we suggest, budget planning. What does that mean? It's not just an extra 2 years of budget that we're going to be making by presenting the Budget Resolution. It is indeed a completely different system of budgetary planning that will allow us, on the one hand, to improve discipline, on the other hand, to plan for three years all systemic reforms and strategic decisions, to calculate in a 3-year perspective. Plus, it takes more responsibility on top of the principals who, when they come here to you, should not only justify why they need it for three years, but also report on the achievement of the performance of the previous year’s performance. This is what we are proposing today, not the reform itself, but the reform itself will require the new budget code that we will be working on with you this year. Today, however, we ask, and the government has already approved this concept and this is the approach, to be piloted this year, and this year, to submit a three-year budget resolution with satellites, as well as a specific list of strategic objectives. It's a big request, it's a big reform, we've been working with the budget committee for a year, and we're asking you to support this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u43	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u44	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Budget Committee of its March 15th session considered the Government Bill 6161 on amending the Budget Code (for the implementation of midterm budget planning). At this stage of implementation of medium-term budgetary planning, primarily through the formation of a three-year budget declaration, is defined as the main part of budgetary reform in the country's strategic and programming documents. First of all, in the Coalition Agreement, the "Ukraine 2020" Sustainable Development Strategy, the Action Programme of the Government and the Strategy for Reforming the System of Government Finance Management for 2017-2020. This bill is seen as one of the first legislative steps to implement the tasks and measures of such reform. The main scientific and expert office has made specific remarks to the bill, particularly on the need to specify the requirements for the content of the draft guidelines of the budget policy and the possibility of making certain changes on a permanent basis. In this regard, it should be noted that a view of the mid-term budget planning model in Ukraine was presented at the committee meeting of the Ministry of Finance. It was pointed out that in the current year an experiment is envisaged to prepare the main directions of budgetary policy not for one year, but for the next three budgetary periods, with the simultaneous expansion of the component documents of such a document. And as a result of practical implementation, Minfin plans to prepare and submit proposals for parliamentary consideration by the current year for comprehensive changes to the Budget Code as part of the refinement of the budgetary procedure, the preparation and content of the relevant documents. Taking into account the stated, and taking into account the need for effective measures to ensure the predictability and balance of fiscal and tax policies in the medium term, taking into account the positive international experience, the Committee on Budget Affairs supports the government initiative and recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 6161 to adopt it on the basis and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u45	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u47	All: On the basis and generally recommended by the committee. Thank you very much. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Didenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u48	Jaroslav Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u49	Medium - term planning is prescribed in the Coalition Agreement almost three years ago. We need planning because because of the misunderstanding that political policy, budgetary policy is going to be next year, we all try to get the money by December, because we still don't know what's going to happen to funding. So the Self-Help faction supports the introduction of medium-term budget planning, but that's not enough. We need to change the philosophy from maintaining budgetary institutions to providing quality services. Because you and I don't finance the civil servant's salary, we finance the services he provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u50	Thank you. Antonistak Andri Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u51	Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Of course, this law needs to be upheld. And now I want to add one thing. I want to go back, ask questions about the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leadership of all the factions that are in the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Until now, you'll be hiding Bill 2406, which will raise the payout by 50 percent for the fighters who died and 50 percent for the disabled by the 1st, 2nd and 3rd groups. He's been in good shape several times. Why do we have time to support, God knows what little things? Why do we talk so much about the Ukrainian army, and why do we not put this bill into the agenda, which I am sure will unite the hall and find, as a minimum, 250 votes? Please answer to the soldiers who are now on the forerunner, please answer to the people of Ukraine now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u52	Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I think this law is long overdue, because today we are adopting a budget and we do not know what will happen next year. So going to this medium-term planning is a very urgent thing. So I would ask everyone in the room to support this bill, because it will give stability, and growth in the investment climate, and various positive things in our economy. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u54	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, then Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u55	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, the law is unnecessary and is such that it is worthless. Why? If you remember last year, the Budget Declaration, which was submitted by the government, was presented as the main indicators of the 17th year, as well as the basic budget figures of the 18th and 19th years included. No one prevents the government from submitting the Budget Declaration until 3:02 p.m. To our great conviction, what is happening? An attempt is made to delay the implementation of the Government’s Budget Declaration Act directly by June of the month. And second, colleagues. So much for the failed budget policy and the adoption of budgets in the 16th, 17th years, we're not allowed to talk about trusting those indicators or the planning that the government is doing for the next 2-3 years. So considering that this bill does not really solve these issues, but only prolongs the enforcement of the law by the government, "Paternity" will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Victor Pinzenik. And then there's the Radical Party. Front hasn't been on yet, has he? Excuse me. Okay. Then Unguran, Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, understanding the resources of the country, will have a mandate for the next three years, essential for the adoption and implementation of budgetary programmes, for the development of individual budget sectors. But that makes sense in one case if we learn to meet the income and budget requirements for at least one month. Why I want to stress that. We've passed the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year, we've distributed all the budget costs, and the question is, what do we share every week? Please look at the agenda of our meetings, every week in plenary mode, we are considering laws that affect either income or budget expenditure. With these approaches, we won't even have an annual budget, I'm not talking about a three-year budget anymore. Why do I want to stress these issues? We have to go back to the standards that exist in Ukrainian legislation. Budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u58	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u59	The Code and Rules protect the country from such things. We are simply obliged to stick to them. The law does not allow the consideration of bills that reduce income or increase budget expenditure without adequate compensators. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, and I ask you not to allow yourself to consider matters that violate this requirement. The other one. The Committee on Budgets makes special conclusions on these issues. I ask that every bill be given the floor to a representative of the Committee on Budgets. I would like to remind you that the first representative of the budget committee in the parliament of a new and independent Ukraine has always had a say in the bill, because this depends on the country's key document, the budget of Ukraine. And I support the bill myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u60	Thank you. From the Radical Party and the People's Front. Oleg Lazko and Ungurian. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, 2 minutes. Two minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u61	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The mid-term and long-term budgeting initiative is absolutely correct. See how the budget is planned in Europe, how the budget is planned in the United States, and in many other developed countries. Three, seven, ten years in advance -- you have to see the strategy. And when we have a budget every year for a New Year’s Eve, under a tree, to squander the resources of the people and then every year it's to decimate and decimate, for whom is this budget made? For corrupters. And the budget is supposed to be an economic development tool. Legendary British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said, "There is no government budget, there are taxpayers' costs." So when it comes to the implementation of so - called budget funds, every Ukrainian must understand that the authorities share his funds, and every Ukrainian must control how the authorities share his funds. Do Ukraine today have the capacity to control the use of budget funds? No, it's not. We have a few years of illegal accounting, which according to the law and the Constitution is the only one who can control the legality of budget implementation. So we're using the funds completely out of control. So I ask the government to immediately submit to the Supreme Council the Law on Budget Change and Increase Pensions for Millions of Ukrainian Pensioners, to list pensions for pensioners who are 30 years of age and 40 years of age and receive today's pensions, and to raise a pension so-called social pension when a person receives 947 dollars. How can you survive on them? So our requirement is either the government raises pensions, or we're going to resign this government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u62	From the Hungarian People's Front. Please, two minutes, please. Paul, Paul, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u63	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues! After fiscal decentralization, which has actually given us a very serious incentive for the development of local communities, and we've seen the last two budgetary periods, as a substantial increase in the income of the local budgets, is the next step towards reforming budgetary legislation and real reforms. So what is it? That doesn't mean that we're going to be adopting one budget for three years, which means we're going to be approving the basics of a three-year budget policy so that ministries, departments can, especially their capital expenditure, especially programs that need a long-term implementation that can't be predicted, that they can predict implementation, that they can effectively use the budget over a three-year period. This will mean that, in fact, ministries, departments, central executives, and local authorities will be given an understanding of their income and expenditure. It is appropriate to plan a three-year period, but to confirm it and fill it with actual planning of a specific budget year under the State budget for the year in question. This means that forecasting the income and expenditure of the budget becomes more transparent, more strategic, more intelligent. That is why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Colleagues, there's gonna be a final speech, yet the Opposition Block hasn't made a statement, Skorik. Then we go to the vote. I ask, colleagues, to invite everyone to the Hall and Heads of the factions, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, in two or three minutes, we will proceed to the vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! The bill that we're looking at is, on the one hand, interesting, he's really saying that we're going to have a medium-term budgeting process. Indeed, this is an element, as the deputy minister, a European practice, rightly said, but you remember well how the 2015, 2016 and 2017 budgets were adopted. You remember well that they were taken completely by hand, when we well understand that the coalition, this nonexistent coalition, will accept the 2018 budget in exactly the same way. We understand well that when the government has no clear monetary policy, no economic policy, no National Bank, no haggling inflation, what medium-term planning can we talk about? When the government and Parliament are actually in manual mode managing some processes, but there is no relation to the real governance of the economy. That's why I'm proposing not to support this bill because it's so beautiful, and in reality nothing is going to happen, and this bill has no relation to real life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to point out that this fall our Parliament has demonstrated the ability by law to step through all stages of the adoption of the budget. And we're going in this direction: in the direction of transparency, in the direction of pre-strategizing and planning our budget. And in fact, the government in this bill is planning a mechanism for our joint planning of the main directions of budget development. So, I'm sure we need to support this government initiative, and it'll give us a chance to do more systematic work on budgeting. And before the vote, I give the floor to the First Deputy Minister of Finance to Markar Oksana Sergiyovna. Please. And then we go to the vote. Please, Oksano Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u67	Thank you very much. Deputies! In fact, medium-term planning is not just a three-year transition, it's what you've been talking about in your speeches, everyone who supports this bill. This is a transition to financing government services, not just burning buildings or paying wages. That's what will give us the predictability of our budget policy and the understanding of citizens, the cost they will spend on and what the state wants to achieve in its strategic goals. So once again, this is not reform itself, this is the first step towards it, I ask you to be very supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u68	So, colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, the discussion is over. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for the implementation of midterm budget planning) (heading 6161), the Committee's proposal, the Committee on Budget Affairs, to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please support, this is budget transparency, this is a big step towards transparent budgeting and budget adoption. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:10:57]] For 260 The law is passed. Welcome to all your colleagues. Colleagues, now I would like to put to the vote the initiative I took at the beginning of the session, the initiative that was discussed and supported by the committee heads, that we should take the break of 12-12:30 today. Everyone in the room sees the agenda and realizes that we have an important block of industry and entrepreneurship, and we have the question of "The Northman," and we have the question of cinematographers. And, colleagues, those half-hours, in a reduced procedure, could even be two laws, colleagues. I think we can mobilize, I think we can support this thing together. And if we have good will, I'll have the offer and continue to eliminate break 12-12. 30 a.m. Tuesday and Thursday. It's not much, but it'll increase the amount of time for our productive work, my colleague. I very much ask everyone to mobilize and support this initiative. I'm asking the committee heads to help make sure the deputies are in place so that this initiative is supported. Please come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a proposal that we work without interruption today at 12-12.30 to work without interruption from 12 to 12:30. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, Andrew Volodymyrovich, Andrew Volodymyrovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Only today. I beg your support, please vote. Colleagues, we'll support, we'll increase the productivity of our work, we'll show that we're able to work effectively. Please vote for break 12-12.30. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:13:22]] For 230 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues, this is a good and important step. Next question, I beg your attention! We had a discussion on the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, which was submitted by the President as an urgent matter. The head of the committee in his letter pointed out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine could decide that the bill should be defined as a reduced procedure for the introduction of rights. I mean, according to. On March 14, 2017, we put in order a daily bill (6175) to amend the Ukrainian Citizenship Act on the realization of the right to change citizenship, which is prominently by the President as a matter of urgency. According to part three of article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council can decide on drafts defined as urgent, on the one-off deviation (ad hoc) from the review procedure provided for in the Rules and shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills by half. Shorten the input lines by half, colleagues. So I'm making a proposal, colleagues, not to put it to a vote right now, but to cut the procedure by half, that's one vote. I'm asking you to back us up so we can take down this legal court. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, cut the lines, colleagues. Once again, I suggest you don't put him to the vote. All I'm proposing is a procedure to cut the procedure by half for the submission of alternative bills. Excuse me? Because it's submitted by the President as an urgent citizen. According to the Rules. No, it's proposed, colleagues, it's a normal norm, supported by everyone. 14 days is given for the introduction of alternatives. 14 days have not yet passed, we propose to shorten the deadline for the submission of alternative bills, colleagues. It's a normal norm that everybody agrees on. So, before this bill, colleagues, do you understand the position? Got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm proposing to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to Bill 6175: to amend the Ukrainian Citizenship Act (to implement the right to change citizenship) half. We've found a compromise formulation that will be supported by everyone. And I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote on this bill, which has been tabled by the President as an urgent matter. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, vote. Please vote. [[11:17:18]] For 207 Colleagues, 207. I'll do it again, colleagues. It seemed to me that this was a compromise offer that would unite the hall, colleagues. Let me once again propose to cut the deadlines for introducing alternative bills into Bill 6175 (for the implementation of the right to change citizenship) by half. Colleagues, please support. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:18:09]] For 211 [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, they're asking me to explain again. I'll explain again. This is a compromise position. Look, there was. I'll explain. The bill was introduced by the President. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, as urgent, in which. Attention! Guys, I need your attention. It provides that those with dual citizenship may be deprived of Ukrainian citizenship. I asked the committee to look into it immediately. The committee says, "It's 14 days for the submission of alternatives. And that's why we can't get together." I now propose, in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Rules, that the deadline for the submission of alternatives be reduced so that it does not go on indefinitely. What makes sense? I want to explain everything. We have found a compromise form that provides: (a) what for officials, national MPs, all departmental employees, we take citizenship immediately if a dual citizenship is discovered; for ordinary citizens, this process is delayed so that it can be arranged. So the officials, the deputies -- right away and then -- we're moving. So it's not about putting it into consideration right now, it's not about voting it, it's about cutting the bill. Mr. Oleg, this isn't a discussion right now. Guys, I'll put it back on. Give me your word, huh? Please, Oleg Berezuk, if you don't understand. One minute, Oleg Beresuk. I'm giving One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u69	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Without a doubt, all who have multiple passports must be punished in this country. But this is not an emergency situation, such as the Occupied Areas Act. So, more than that, this law can deprive those working for this Ukraine of very important rights. So don't change the procedure! A week or two doesn't burn. To work on the law, to make a quality law, and to continue living in a normal country! Not inventing all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u70	Colleagues, I'll ask. Shall we begin the discussion? Please, Shufrich. One minute, one minute from the factions. Shufrich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u71	Thank you, Reverend Head! Dear colleagues! It is a terrible disgrace that in our country the rulers have several citizenships! And it certainly has to be stopped and punished, first of all, by those who were misled when they went to work, and by the B.S.A. that missed it, to put it mildly. On the other hand, there are 25 articles of the Constitution that prohibit the deprivation of Ukrainian citizenship. If this is the way we want to settle the matter, we need to begin the process of amending the Constitution by 25 articles. I would now separate the issue of the responsibility of citizens of our country for dual citizenship. There is an administrative offence and they have to be held accountable for it. And no one in our country of citizens of Ukraine has the right to be deprived of their citizenship! And ministers and other leaders must be punished criminally for misleading society! And the S.B.I. for what it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u72	One minute, Yvchenka. Yvechenko, one minute. Yeah, yeah, okay. Then one minute from the "Radical Party" Easy. B.P., find out which one of you is. Apparently, Irina Lucenko. Identify yourself. Irina Lucenko will.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! I'm primarily referring to Self-Help, which does not support the initiative to halve the time frame for consideration of this bill. The Constitution says that the only citizenship is Ukrainian. The Ukrainian national MPs who went, registered with candidates, they filled out documents with several citizens, they cheated on voters, they cheated on the CTC, they cheated on the Lord God when they lied that they had no citizenship other than Ukrainian. We now propose to consider an immediate bill that establishes responsibility for national MPs and government officials for the presence of dual citizenship. Deputies who have other passports other than Ukrainian should be immediately deprived of their parliamentary mandates. And I don't see the need for a month, two, three to discuss whether it should be done. Read the Constitution! The Constitution forbids that. Deputies should be taken from those who have other citizenship right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u74	Irina Lucenko, one minute, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, please focus your attention on the fact that we are not violating the Constitution's rules on the deprivation of citizenship that our colleague at the Opposition has been talking about, we're talking about the cessation of citizenship. But at the same time, I agree with the thesis of a colleague from the Radical Party. Article 4 of the Constitution states that Ukrainian citizenship is unique. Under the Constitution, the President, as a guarantor, has the right to make such an offer. We can't allow first- or third-category officials to be able to avoid criminal responsibility for budget theft, corruption, and so on. Our organs are working in this direction, as the Attorney General's Office, NABU, SAP, came up with the first results. So let us not let them escape responsibility. And for ordinary citizens, we're changing the term of the passport of other citizens in order to keep them calm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Colleagues, Sergey Sobolev hasn't spoken yet, one minute and then Front, and after that vote from Front, there's already a man. Make a deal, Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u77	The Fatherland faction supported the initiative to shorten the deadlines for this issue. But we are surprised at the position of the flaming speakers, who initiated and accused someone of having other citizenship when they included double - citizen deputies on their list. First, see how those who now recognize that they have dual citizenship have come to you. People's opinions are very good drafts that somehow don't fit into the hall, including the Chumak, Wooden, and Dove bill, which offer a very simple solution. "You did not specify your dual citizenship in the electronic declaration, criminal responsibility." And you're losing your status as a national MP. So I think there's a way to solve this very simply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u78	So, colleagues, once again, the replica is given when in offensive form, then the format for the performance is given. Just mentioning those technologies, I won't allow them in the hall, remembering each other indefinitely. So it's the last performance. Colleagues, we're not going to go through any other drafts. From the People's Front to Germany and we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, Leonid Yemetz, the People's Front faction. I'll give you the location of our faction. Where there is a discussion today about a common citizen, where we have to defend the rights of our diaspora, that question is still to be discussed. But the position of our faction on government officials, on national MPs, on judges, on representatives of local self-government is extremely clear: the Constitution must be respected – the only citizen. These people exercise power over the Ukrainian state. These people have access to state secrets. And while being citizens of another state, they are responsible to another state for protecting the interests of that state, having access to our State's secret, having access to our government. This is unacceptable, these are the extraordinary risks of our country's national security. Our faction therefore insists that government officials, judges, national deputies, and representatives of local self - government be immediately deprived.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u80	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u81	I'm saying government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u82	Colleagues, the faction of Self-Help and Deputy Chumak were mentioned during the discussion of the factions. After a minute, and we vote, colleagues, that's where we finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, thank you for your word. I want to say that the registered draft of Law 6196 is for unreliable information about the granting of citizenship or nationality. This law has a slightly different philosophy, but it is very correct; it refers to those who hold responsible and particularly responsible positions in the state in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, as well as to those who hold positions with corruption risks. Moreover, for failure to provide such information, criminal responsibility is established and an additional article is added to the Criminal Code, and the responsibility lies in a large fine and at the same time a ban on taking office. At the same time, it also solves the question of attraction to the impeachment. Attracting the President in the process of impeachment, cancelling the MP's mandate, cancelling the civil service. This law solves all these issues at the same time, including those filed by the President, by the Radical Party, and so forth. I very much ask all factions to see Law 6196 and perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u84	One minute, Oleg Barresuk, Self-help. And let's move to the vote, please, everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished voters of Ukraine! A classic "breath in a glass": today, under the cover of simply empty words fighting for the Ukrainian nation, fighting against oligarchs with 3-4 passports, the procedure for reviewing the law in the Supreme Council breaks. Absolute storm in the glass, simulation! That's why this law is in the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council is voting for it, but it's very difficult because it can violate, not the rights of people who cheat on the country for 25 years, but the rights of people who work hard abroad for 25 years. Stop trying to do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Let's go to the vote, I want to stress this isn't breaking the hall, only the hall can make a decision, only the hall can make a decision. Let's go to the vote. I am proposing once again that the deadlines for the introduction of bills (registration number 6175) should be reduced to make amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Law (for the exercise of the right to change citizenship) by half. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. If you'll excuse me, colleagues, we have a vote, please. Please vote. [[11:30:37]] For 241 241 – yes. Decision taken. We've made up our minds, we've made our decisions. Let's move on, fellows, we've only been getting along for so long, and it's a shame we've wasted so much time on this. Let's move on to the next agenda: this is the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. 6172 is a second reading, it does not need a special procedure, and I invite the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption of Sobolev Egor Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! This law is passed by the President of Ukraine. This is the situation where we support the initiative of the President of Ukraine. Soldiers, sergeants, cadets shouldn't declare their families' wealth, it doesn't matter to anti-corruption policy. We suggest that they be brought out of this law. On the other hand, it is vital that we keep the obligation for all the declarations made by our families to be made by generals, and this is also provided for in the law. As for the officers who are particularly in the zone of combat, we foresee in the bill that they will have the right to postpone until they return to the place of permanent deployment or complete their service. Then they will have another 90 days to submit the declaration. This is the philosophy of rights prepared jointly with the Representative of the President of the Supreme Council, together with the experts of the Ministry of Defence at our Committee on Anti-Corruption. I'd like to ask the speaker to start a law enforcement procedure, every single one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u88	Thank you. Fellows, the right is a small number, but they are. And that's why I'm asking you to get the authors ready for work. So 1-a, Anointed. Declined. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 2nd Sobolev Yegor. Declined. Is it insisting? He insists, yes. Don't insist, yes. Three, Welcome home. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Four o'clock, George. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 5th, Chumak. Is it insisting? Victor. Okay. 6th, Blackwolf Tetian. Is it insisting? He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u89	I'm asking you to support all of my revisions, they have the only logic, the only system, I'll briefly explain which one. I ask you to make the following categories of e-declarations: they are candidates for all levels of membership; the latter are persons of the Supervisory Board of State Banks, state enterprises; and the third are members of public councils within state structures. I will point out that the activities of these individuals have a corrupt risk. So I'm asking you to support the submission of these categories of e-declarations. The third is anti-corruption workers, who receive targeted funds to implement anti-corruption state policy. And finally, I'm asking you to exclude the following category from this list: this is the media. Logic here is very simple, we have a beautiful bill that we have to work on and accept, it's about media transparency property, it's written down where it's more clearly and where it's more about the wider circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u90	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u91	And the previous categories, I think it's extremely necessary for them to make e-declarations because their activities have corruption risks. And e-declaration is transparency, it's the basis of anti-corruption policy. So I ask you to support all of my revisions, they have the only logic, the only system I've ever talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u92	On the 6th hand are they insisting on a vote? Yes. I'll bet on the vote number six of the National MP Blackwall Tetian. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Vote. [[11:35:26]] For 236 Decision taken. 7th National Deputy Popov. Popov!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, it is our duty today to accept the amendments that will relieve the mandatory declaration of military officers — private, sergeant, and junior officers. But today we can do more to remove some disagreements in the Anti-Corruption Act. This is my amendment, first of all, to clarify the formulation of what a state authority is, and to include here the same collegiate bodies, namely NAMK, NAMRC, which are not currently declared by the current legislation. The second block in this amendment is a clarification of the formulation of legal officials. persons of public law to explain who in state enterprises should declare who should not. Today, the team’s brigade often declares, and the project manager signs billions of offshore contracts for government funds and does not declare them. And these formulations give a clear answer: if he performs his economic functions, his financial functions, he has to declare himself an official of a state-owned enterprise. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u94	Yegor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, with regard to the E-Declaration Act, you know, there's a lot of writings breaking in this room. The position of our committee -- this law was passed by the President to help the military, who are now protecting Ukraine, not to violate anti-corruption legislation. All the other ideas about candidates for national MPs, which I personally support, or about the declaration by officials of state and municipal enterprises, need to be regulated by a separate law with a normal professional discussion. Now we're going to write the amendments in a voice, and then we're going to find out that they made a hole, and there's no law that can be enforced. So I have a request from the committee: we regulate this law only when it comes to military personnel so that our boys don't violate our anti-corruption legislation, but all those who have to declare, including the generals, are declared.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u96	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting on amendment number seven of Popov's national deputy. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:38:19]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Next, 8th Amendment, Brigitte. Declined. Is it insisting? He insists. Yes, please, Brigitte.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u97	Yes. Your Honor, this right allows you to free yourself from the declaration of those military personnel who have been released to the reserve. And it seems to me that now that all of the people who have been released to the reserve that we have in Ukraine and who fall under the deadline for this declaration are all people who have generally been in the ATO generally have no relation to any corruption schemes. So I suggest you support this one. This is the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u98	Alexander!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u99	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u100	Alexander, you're wrong. Take a closer look at what you're proposing at number six. Eight, sorry, eight. 6 requisitions approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u101	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 8 of the Briginian People's Deputy. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:39:48]] For 234 234-yes. Decision taken. Next, 9th. Amendment of the Popov People's Deputy. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the position of the Radical Party is that former presidents, former prime ministers, former general prosecutors, former heads of the President's Administration, former national deputies should also open up their assets to society. So society has to move towards that this is going to be a general declaration, but we have to start with those who have led the country to what we see now. Now we're forcing a junior pensioner to be declared in the District Department of the Pension Fund. What kind of corruption is that? It is important to force those who have been in the highest positions for decades. But I'm taking this off. I think I'm going to introduce this as a separate bill, we're going to hold additional consultations, we're going to form a list of the positions that we're going to add. And we're going to demand that they submit declarations by 2016 in 2017. But the most important thing for us is to get rid of the declaration of military personnel. I'm taking my paper off.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Next line, 10th, Lavric. Partially counted. Don't insist. Which one? 10 to the right, please, Chicken. Ten to the left.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u104	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to place number 10 on confirmation. It is considered only in part, and it is worth voting for, and really, to take a closer look. Thank you. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u105	Thank you. So I'm making an offer. Yegor Sobolev, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u106	Your Honor, you represent one faction. The request to form one position on this law, or it will not pass, and our military personnel will become violators of anti-corruption legislation. The committee formulated in very professional and fruitful discussions with the President's Representative, with the President's Administration, with the Ministry of Defence the following logic: sergeants, trainees, soldiers do not declare their assets unless they hold other positions. For example, my Parliamentary neighbour Taras Pastuch is a contract soldier. But as long as he is in the Supreme Council, he must submit a declaration. That's the position we've developed and stood up for. A request to keep it in order for the law to be passed. Those who should not declare should not declare their wealth, but those who should declare them. Don't break that logic. The request to take this into account in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u107	Thank you. I'm voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Chicken to put Amendment No. 10 to confirm. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Confirming 10 revisions. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:43:13]] For-88 The decision is not made. 11th row. Sobolen Yegor. 11th row. Are you insisting? Ah, counted. Yeah? 12th. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the 11th? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Speaker! Dear speakers! I ask you to comment on the 11th amendment: how does it count what it means. And I also ask you to put it as a result of this discussion for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u109	Please, Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u110	This is the case with those in positions of responsibility who may find themselves in the Armed Forces or in schools, or who may become students of the pulpit, where there is military training. Our position is that if these people are prosecutors, deputies, other officials who are subject to the Anti-Corruption Act, they have to file a declaration. If this amendment is not confirmed, it means that we will begin what we started after the adoption of the Law on the Cleaning of Power, when prosecutors in order to go to the Slovenian seminar to become a participant in combat. I have a big request from the committee, from all the drafters of this legislation to confirm this amendment, it is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u111	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirmation of number 11. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:45:04]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Excuse me? The card didn't work. I'll ask you again to confirm Amendment No. 11 Soboljev. I'm putting the vote back on the 11th. One of these confirmations. So 11 approvals. I'm betting once again on confirmation of the 11th amendment. Please. [[11:46:02]] For a hundred and Next. 12 row Blackwolf Tetian. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u112	I'm asking you to back me up. This is the most important revision in my right-hand system, because it defines the categories. And by the way, in these precisely, in this direction, I'm asking you to make a change -- rule out the media. That is, delete the paragraph from paragraph 5: "It is the founders, the participants, the editors, the chief media editors." That is, to exclude the obligation to submit their declarations. Also delete the changes to article 3, sub-paragraph "g", since the corresponding positions in another edition are taken into account by Gerasimov. I also want to state that there is no problem for an anti-corruption person to submit a declaration, an electronic declaration. Once again, I'll tell you how a former government-authorized anti-corruption policy, it's even a matter of pride, it's a question of a flag, an anti-corruption flag, to submit an e-declaration. So let's support anti-corruption workers in their clean work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u113	Please comment. Igor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u114	I would like to point out to my colleagues that this right is being released from the declaration at the same time as the State Service for Special Liaison. I don't understand what the problem is with the officials of this service, and how they can be on the front line. This time. The other one. Everything that is not a military force requires careful discussion of the committees, the Supreme Council Hall, and the adoption of a separate law. In part, I share the ideas expressed by a colleague, partly denying it. And so out of a voice to form legislation, this is going to be the law of Dennisenk-2, which then the President will have to promise, and we will re-admit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u115	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was said that the reptilian was urged to do so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote, colleagues. Guys, I'm sorry. Attention! Attention! Calm down! I ask, is there a need to exchange ideas? Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u116	I give the word Denisenko, as he was just mentioned in his speech by Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I'm the only one I'd like to say. We're going to support this amendment for one simple reason, because there's a lot of talk about anti-corruption anti-corruption workers being honest with society. They keep saying that they're honest before society, let's give them the right to show that they're honest, because otherwise they're being honest, like they're being dishonest. This amendment allows them to become completely true before all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u118	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote number 12 of the Blackwall People's Deputy in an editorial called Blackwall. Who. It's going to be 12 revisions. Please vote on who supports this amendment. [[11:50:17]] For 265 265 – yes. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next one. 13th Amendment, George. Is it insisting? Because it's partially accounted for. 14th, Timoshenko. The 13th? It's Oleg's 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u119	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yegor Sobolev, colleague, friend, I'm with you. You just said that you don't know what the role of Special Forces officers is and what they have to do with the front. I want to tell you directly. In addition to providing government liaison, the state’s special liaison service provides liaison for military, feldiger, and special liaison. So I want on behalf of the Radical Party faction, and I hope the entire Parliament will support me, thanking the brave officers of the Special Forces for their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u120	Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u121	Again. We are now considering anti-corruption legislation with you. We do not appreciate the work of any kind of army or of any unit involved in defense. This is the task of another discussion, another committee. We're talking about officials who receive taxpayers' money sometimes have to report large amounts of taxpayers' money to society about their families' assets. The disfellowshipping of these people is unacceptable. Parliament has just begun to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u122	So what's the position on the 13th? Colleagues! Melniczuk is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! In view of this discussion in the hall and this revision has been taken into account in part, I ask you to place it for confirmation. Please have 13 confirmations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u124	Shufrich is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I insist that we stop raping the Rules and give the floor only to those who have the right to do so during the second reading of the Bill. Thank you. We must adopt the law as prescribed by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u126	Colleagues! Now I'm going to put it to a vote, but in fact any MP can raise his hand and put any amendment to the confirmation, I can't take it away. It's just that when they raise their hand and they're not speaking in the right direction, then it's unfair, because when a deputy raises his hand, he has to speak in a specific direction and according to it, but everyone has the right to speak, either way. Thus, the 13th Amendment asks for confirmation of the appointment of the National Deputy Chicken. Whoever supports the 13th Amendment, please vote, please support for confirmation. Melniczuk, I'm sorry, Melniczuk is asking for 13 confirmations. Please vote. [[11:54:00]] For-93 Next 14th, Timoshenko. Partially counted. Don't insist. What's that? On the 11th? Please. And the 14th? Please, Melniczuk, 14 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u127	I'm also asking you to put this bill for confirmation, and there's a little discussion on it on the committee, and I know that it's also partially counted. Let's let the hall know. Please confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u128	I'm betting on confirmation of the 14th Amendment, Timoshenko Yuri, please vote. 14 confirmations, please vote. [[11:55:03]] For-149 149 – a.k.a. The decision is not made. 15th, Anointed One. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Anointing, not insisting. 16th. Confirmed 15th? Barna, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u129	Based on the fact that the amendment has been taken into account, but its standards are repeated in others, please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u130	So you're asking for 15 confirmations, right? 15th, well, I'm betting on confirmation of the 15th People's Deputies of Amazanova. Please, whoever supports this amendment, please vote, vote. [[11:56:03]] For 155 155-yes. The decision is not made. 16th People's Deputy of Dobrodomov. Is it insisting? No, don't insist, 16th. The 16th? Melniczuk, 16 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u131	I ask that, in view of the partiality of this amendment, let the hall be determined. Please place this amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u132	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u133	What if I could explain it? I'm going to try to gather all my knowledge, the thing is that we're with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are voting with you for the amendments that are part of the rights already approved by the committee and which are supported by the hall. So when you fail a single piece, and in another place it is approved, the House of Parliament is voted, then I will have a huge question in the committee head, and for which the Council voted if, at the request of a colleague of Melniczuk, she fails, she does not confirm the amendment, and in another place she agrees with the same editorial. I think we're going to have a very interesting discussion with you, Mr. Speaker, which is the result that we can't go through with the adoption of important bills. I repeat, there has been an agreement on an editorial supported by a committee to where.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u134	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u135	supported by the Representative of the President, who introduces the author of this bill, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, supported by the Ministry of Defence, to which we are now doing one thing, and in another place another will be written. That's the whole truth. I ask you to follow the committee's recommendations as set out in the voting table.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u136	Thank you. So you insist on voting, right? Melniczuk? You insist. Okay. I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment of the 16th People's Deputies of Dobrodomov. Please vote. [[11:58:39]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 17th, Lavrick. Don't insist. The 17th, too? 17a, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u137	Please, Mr. Speaker, also place this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u138	Is the committee head going to comment? Yegor, you will comment, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u139	Colleagues, I think we're all clear here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u140	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 17, which supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:59:39]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 18th, Demchak. Don't insist. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, this bill applies to the deputies of the village councils. These are small village councils. This came from the electorate. They're unable to file a declaration. Generally, such people were asked to be deputies in general and to be able to form them at all, these counsels. They are mass - time applicants, and we will have hundreds of illegal rural councils. I'm asking you very much for your support. And I think they'll understand the majority MPs, who are also approached by these deputies of the village council. They don't want to break legislation after April 1. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u142	Mr. Yegor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u143	First of all, colleague Alexeyev of the People's Front suggested that they should be for these people. This is another Alexei from Peter Dustenk's Block. He suggested that one of those people who first made a declaration should be given another month. In this law, there is such a law that they should be filed by May 1. But they can't be released from the declaration at all. Ask Attorney General Yuri Lucenk about the bribes he uses to catch members of local councils, and ask the director of anticorruption. THE bitnik's artem, with which he bribes members of the local councils, when they don't follow him into office, but they take that kind of money, some of them, the dishonest, unconscionable people, that it's top-corruption, they can't be freed from e-proclamation. A request to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u144	So you insist on voting? Colleagues, there are two suggestions, there can't be others. The 18th committee amendment is rejected, and the author is asking for her support. And I'm voting on the proposal to support the amendment of 18 People's Demczak. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. It's a committee against it. [[12:02:14]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. 19th National Deputy Popov. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I want to make it clear that in order for us to help our military personnel properly, we must be filigreely verified in the formulations. We have not only the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but also the National Guard, but also the Ukrainian Border Service, separate parts of the State Service for Special Communications and Information. We talked about it in the task force. Only three national deputies worked in the working group. I thank them very much, who, we did it together. I am very grateful to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, who have helped us to make the right wording. The correct wording is included in the amendments made by the group of national MPs, where Arthur Gerasimov is the first to be represented by the submitting subject, and all the rest of our discussion. Let's help our military directly, vote for the drafts proposed by the working group, where all the national MPs working on these rights are involved. That's why we're still going to have to adopt with technical law, but we won't have to assemble the Supreme Council again to re-vote this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u146	Yeah, what do we do?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u147	What are you not insisting on? That's good. 20th. What's that? 19th for confirmation? Turn on Barney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u148	Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u149	Colleagues, I'm asking for confirmation of amendment number 19 of Popov's national deputy. Please vote. [[12:04:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 20th, Chumuk Victor. Partially counted. Don't you insist? Don't you insist? Chicken. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u150	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished speaking Mr. Yegor! I also really encourage you to listen to the point of view of our colleague from the radical faction of Igor Popov. The point is that Amendments 20 and 21 also apply to the same paragraph in the first part of Article 3 as to all previous amendments. And that's to avoid breaking the logic of this law that members of the working group have put in place, I'm also asking for confirmation on both the 20th and the 21st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u151	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u152	As a parliamentary colleague correctly pointed out, we propose to take these rights into account in part. Why, then, should they be put to the test?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u153	I'm putting in 20 confirmation papers first. If you support this proposal, please vote: to confirm the 20th amendment. [[12:05:46]] For-125 125-yes. The decision is not made. 21 lashes, Brigitte. Offered. Yeah, well, I'll put it to a vote. The same is true of the 21st requirement for confirmation. Whoever supports the 21st amendment, please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:06:14]] For-136 136 – a.k.a. The decision is not made. 22nd, Gerasimov Arthur. Counted, yes. 23rd. Partially counted, Timoshenko. 24th. Counted. 23rd what? 23rd, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u154	Please place it on confirmation, 23 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u155	23 The Law of the People’s Deputy, Timoshenko, is based on confirmation. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please support the revision. This is Timoshenko Yuri. Please be supportive. [[12:07:01]] For 135 135 – Z. The decision is not made. 24th Sobolev Yegor, accounted for. 25th. The question of Chernobyl. Please. Which one? 24th. Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u156	Please give an explanation and ask for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u157	I'm betting on confirmation of the 24th amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljev Yegor. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Twenty-four, yes. [[12:07:50]] For-98 The decision is not made. 25th row. National MP Blackwall. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u158	I urge you to support this amendment. It regulates the provision of electronic declaration by anti-corruption officials, members of public councils in state structures. She's very much needed. Please support it, but with the exception of the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u159	Committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u160	All right, guys, let's do it again. The law applies to military personnel. If anyone wants to arrest Dasha Kalenyuk, the Anti - Corruption Agency started writing a report on corruption yesterday. I'm sorry, the President of Ukraine, who has not recorded the Spanish villa, is not being discussed by any anti-corruption body. And Dasha Kalenjuk is the problem. What's this about in the legislation on declaration of military service? What does Parliament think about when it adopts this law? I have a request from the committee to ask the committee to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u161	Who supports the amendment of the 25 people's deputies, Blackwall, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:09:24]] For 249 Decision taken. 27th, Chumak. Don't insist. Melniczuk is 27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u162	26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u163	Sixth, 26th George. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u164	26th we missed. In connection with what has been missed, please place it for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u165	26th for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u166	Yeah, 26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u167	Head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u168	Colleagues, we've taken this amendment into account in another way. We offer not 30 days, but 90 days to those who return from combat operations to a place of permanent deployment or complete service. Asking her to consider it in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u169	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 26 the amendment of the National MP, Georgette, for confirmation. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:10:41]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 27th, Chumak. Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u170	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Just now, the speaker, Jegor Sobolev, said that 90 days were counted. But 27 revisions also speak of 30 working days. I'm also asking you to look into it, and so that there is no dualism in the enforcement of the law, and to put this right in place for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u171	Vote. I'll bet. Please, just a minute, Chumak. He is the author of the amendment. Chunk, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! Understand that this amendment is partly taken into account in giving time for declarations to those who are on the front page. But it's not 30 days, it's 90. If you're just going to "roll" these amendments now, you're going to cancel these terms and people just can't file declarations and they're going to be held accountable. That's logic. And you just look at the bad authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u173	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 27 of the Chumak People's Deputy. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:12:18]] For 122 The decision is not taken. 28th, Popov. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Very good. There is one amendment that no one insists on. 29th, Captain. Don't you insist? Melniczuk, what's the 29th? 29th, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u174	I'm asking you to ask this question in the hall for confirmation, this is the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u175	The amendment will now be explained. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u176	Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Dear colleagues, I understand now that those who watch us on TV don't even realize what's going on in this room. I'll explain. We're just actually now using the coalition cynically that this bill, which deals with military personnel and the possibility of releasing those guys who are currently on the cutting edge, from making declarations, is cynically using this situation to free those people who are currently at risk of corruption. And look at the ridiculous situation. We find that the public has a greater risk of corruption than, for example, the heads of rural councils or, for example, the heads of the same Butchi, the same Irpina, Conca-Sasleep, which today, most of them are under criminal control. What are you doing??
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u177	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirming the amendment of the 29 People's Deputies of Sotnik. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:14:15]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. 30th, Welcome. Don't insist. 31st, Anointed One. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u178	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. This amendment has been rejected, but it's important, and the fact that we're simply putting it in an editorial form like it is, and we're adding military personnel, it's unfortunately caused some fear to the members of the committee. And I would also like to add to this amendment, and I would like to ask for technical legal refinements to make the following statements: "and for persons who are members of the regional inter-regional inter-regional military formations, officials, operational units of the State Criminal Enforcement Service, other than the heads of such units, as well as those who are members of the National Police operational units, who are responsible for non-verbal investigations, search operations under the conditions of conspiracy, other than the heads of such units." And I want to put this bill on the vote in such an editorial form and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u179	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u180	It's categorical. I explained to my colleagues, including the People's Front. Now all those who are doing intelligence and counterintelligence in this state are already released from open declaration. This is clearly stated in an active article of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Attempts to rewrite this article, write it differently, and elsewhere are attempts to make a hole in anticorruption legislation. You can't do that. The committee decided to reject the amendment. I'm asking you to back this offer off.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u181	In this case, we place the Anointed Position on confirmation. Yes, I'm putting to the vote the 31st Amendment of Anointed One with the amendment that he made under the transcript into the microphone. The supporter of the 31st Amendment of Anointed One, please vote. Please vote, 31 amendments. [[12:16:33]] For 184 184 – a.k.a. The decision is not made. 32nd, Gerasimov. Counted. 33rd, Popov. Is it insisting? 33rd? Popov doesn't insist. 34th, Blackwall. He insists. Attention! 33rd, Shepherd, turn on the microphone. Kostenko. Thirty-three.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u182	Please place the amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u183	It's rejected, 33 is rejected. Uh, 34th? Now, I'll give it to the author first. Please, Castle Tetjana, the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u184	34th is mine. Please support 34 revisions with the exception of the media again. I want to point out that it has a technical character, in particular, that anti-corruption officials should indicate the name of the anti-corruption program that they implement. I also want to make a point in this context that this is done so that we don't have the shame that we had with the introduction of the e-declaration, when it turns out that a non-cost product was made at the Danish cost and actually $2 million of Danish money was stolen. It's a disgrace to the whole world. And so that it doesn't happen again, I propose to vote in favour of my entire system of amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u185	Thus, the 34th amendment of the Blackwall People’s Deputies is based on confirmation of the proposal made by Deputy Kostenka. Confirmation, 34 amendments to the Blackwall People's Deputies, please vote. Please vote for confirmation. [[12:18:34]] For 243 Decision taken. 35th, Gerasimov. And it's counted? Yes. 36th, Popov. Don't insist. Very good. 37th, Blackwall. Turn on the microphone. The 37th amendment reads, "No agreement has been reached on the decision-making process." Please, Auntie Blackwall, 37 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u186	I'm also asking you to support 37 revisions, but again, except for the media, where the founders and editors of the media are involved, I'm asking you to support everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u187	Thank you. So 37 amendments to the Blackwall People's Deputy. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:19:28]] For 242 242-yes. Decision taken. 38th, Chumak. "No agreement has been reached on the decision-making process." Turn on the microphone, Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! The amendment concerns exactly the officials of the Security Service and other intelligence agencies. I want to thank them for their work so they don't blame me for not understanding the role of the Security Service in the country. But what has happened to us? Today, information about the declarations made by all officials of the Security Service is closed. My amendment suggests that those who engage in intelligence, counterintelligence, operational, operational and technical activities, which are classified, do not make public declarations. But those officials who are appointed by the President's Orders who are appointed by orders from the heads of regional administrations to administrative posts without the application of the "secretly" Griffith should submit their declarations to the usual registers. This is absolutely logical, as it applies to the heads of rural councils, because they are not super spies to cover up all their data. So I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u189	Thank you. I am voting on amendment 38 of Chumak’s national deputy, who supports the amendment, please vote. [[12:21:06]] For 113 113-yes. The decision is not made. 39th, George, does not insist. 40th, Blackwall, no agreement has been reached. Turn on the microphone, Aunty Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u190	Please support this exercise fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u191	The 40th Amendment of the Blackwall People's Deputy, who supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:21:50]] For 238. 238, yes. Decision taken. 42th, the whole group. Counted. 41st, now. Guys, just a second. 41st, Popov or insists? Don't insist. Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u192	Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u193	The 41th Amendment of the Popov People’s Deputy is confirmed. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:22:37]] For 112 The decision is not taken. 42nd. Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! We've taken into account a lot of important rights regarding military personnel. However, they have made commitments to the submission of a declaration to military officials who are in charge of official posts related to the performance of administrative and economic duties. You can't agree with that, because this definition falls under the command of the army commander, the senior lieutenant, who sits in the trench under the enemy's fire. Taking into account the above, as well as the fact that the individuals mentioned remain under other preventive anti-corruption mechanisms and provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act, I propose to exclude from the bill the rules that oblige military personnel to submit electronic declarations in respect of the performance of administrative and economic duties. In particular, it is article 45 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, article 20 of the Military and Military Service Act, and article 14 of the Act on the State Border Service of Ukraine. Please take this into account when voting for the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u195	Do you insist on voting on this amendment? No, it's not. Counted, yes. Next 43, if you're right. 43rd, Chumak. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! I'm already afraid to speak, just-just this amendment replaces the name of the law in one and the other. It's just a technical correction. So I don't think we should just throw it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u197	Chicken, please. 43 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Finally, Parliament is demonstrating a normal working environment and atmosphere, which is how it is to be approved by this law. [[Noise in the hall, applause]] But 43 revisions, Mr. Chumak, 43 amendments are not just about changing the title of the law. The State Border Service is being mentioned here, and that's why I'm asking you to comment now on why the State Border Service is mentioned here and put this right here also for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u199	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u200	Look, if "spun in the bush" is called the normal constructive work of Parliament, we need to think seriously about our mental health. [[Noise in the hall, applause]] Dear Mr. Chicken, I am explaining to you the contents of the amendment. In the days of Yanukovich, in the light of many people here and the dark for society, the Law was passed, which was called "On Resisting and Preventing Corruption." Viktor Janukovich did not constantly perform it and put it off, especially in the part of the e-declaration. Now this Parliament has adopted a law called the Prevention of Corruption Act, which was passed by Parliament in 2014. [[B in m in s a l in]] In 2014, he was approved by Parliament before the elections. This Parliament has made all necessary changes to it, including the regulation of electronic declarations. But part of the legislation was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u201	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u202	Part of the legislation left a reference to an old law that is no longer real, not valid, which is called "Resistance and Prevention of Corruption." What we're proposing is that in all legislation there be a reference to a valid law called the Prevention of Corruption. If you want to fail and that's a decision, then at least make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u203	So I'm voting for Amendment 43 of the Chumak People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. It's on confirmation. [[12:26:53]] For-143 143-yes. The decision is not taken. 44 repairs, Gerasim. Don't insist. She's listed here. 45th, Popov. Partially counted. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, today we have decided to expand the list of declarants. But even with technical legal remedies, at best, the Chief of the Supreme Council will be able to sign this law in one or two days, because the law is complicated, and then the President's signature. We can't leave these new categories of citizens three days to collect all the documents and fill out the Electronic Declaration Register. We extend it to everyone for a month, but we have to give these citizens time until the end of May to get all the help they need. Everybody knows it's not going to happen in one day. In this direction, I propose in the End Positions these new categories of citizens that we are now adding in this law, give time to 30 April to fill out electronic declarations. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u205	Will you comment, Yegor?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u206	Since the committee recommended that one edition be adopted, and as a result of the work of individual members of the committee, other parliamentary colleagues are approved by another, I have no right to speak to the committee right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u207	Do you insist on voting? Support your revision completely, right? So I'm voting on Pop's proposal to support his 45 completely. 45 fines, national deputy Popov. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:28:50]] For-149 The decision is not taken. 46th, Brigadier. 46th. Andrew's 46th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u208	Read the second paragraph, paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u209	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we must make a clear principled decision to support our military forces who are today defending the country. But, dear fellows, the point is that our efforts may prove futile if this law does not enter into force by April 1, 2017, because it is then that the military personnel who have the right to be released from the application of this law and who cannot technically submit it will be in line with the legislation in force. In order to avoid such a situation, please put to the vote the ruling of the Briginian People's Deputy, taking into account the transcript of the following provisions. Chapter II. “The final position” of the bill should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following content: “The persons who have been or are exempt under this law from the obligation to submit an appropriate declaration, the persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government, the declaration which covers the period of validity of this law shall not be invoked and shall not be held liable.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u210	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u211	The committee requests that this amendment be rejected. Don't make a hole in anti-corruption legislation, don't let go. What we did with you: this Parliament introduced this responsibility and these declarations -- you're ruining the work we did with you, you're throwing it in the trash.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u212	I put to the vote 46 amendments, the Briginian, with the clarification that Andriewsky made under the transcript. Who supports Amendment 46, Brigadier, please vote. With the paper that Andreyevsky carried. Please vote. [[12:31:03]] For 233 233-yes. Decision taken. 47th, Blackwolf Tetian. "No agreement reached." Turn on Tetjana Blackwall's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u213	Please be supportive. It's an amendment to End Position. And I also want to thank you very much for supporting all of my previous amendments, because at last we're making some minimum fuses so that corruption costs don't get into anti-corruption organizations. In this context, by the way, I'm going to remind you how corruptionist Oneshenko (Kadirov) paid millions of dollars so that the Special Confiscation Act was not voted in the anti-corruption environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u214	So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 47 people's deputies, Auntie Blackwall. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:32:11]] For 254 254 – yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, there are two adjustments left. We'll get to the end. 48th, George. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u215	Respectable citizens! What we could not imagine in 2014 when we came to this Parliament is today called the "normal working atmosphere of Parliament". I note that the factions of the coalition, together with the Opposition Block, are the foundation, the foundation of the Yanukovic regime, at the same time, cynically concealing the military, destroying the electronic declaration system, establishing laziness for which rural heads, MPs, other persons who have nothing to do with military service will be freed from electronic declaration. Guys, what kind of work is this?Oh, my God! What is this one impulse?Oh, my God! You came here to this Parliament with the blood of men! Every day in 2014-2015, you talked about how you respect those people who died for you for your right to come to this Parliament. And today it's cynical, along with the regionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u216	So, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you want to vote? Vote! Do you require a vote? No, it's not. And, colleagues, the last amendment is 49th, Alekseyev, accounted for. The 49th Amendment of Schrum. Turn on the Scrum microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u217	Colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I want to put this amendment to confirm, and I also want to explain what's going on in this room right now. Colleagues, not for the first time in good, in the right law under good orders -- to release the military personnel who are now protecting us from you, from the electronic declaration -- all the other things go on. Now we see what's called normal work is that our colleagues in the so-called coalition have given out exactly the same amendments that need to be made for confirmation. Those who follow these amendments find that they do not even consider the amendments they make. They talk about other things, not about the adjustments that they actually support or do not support. "The Cloud" votes in favour of these amendments and gives a full number of votes to knock down the right things that have been worked out by the committee, colleagues, and to accept what is absolutely embarrassing to our work today. Therefore, colleagues, we cannot vote for a balanced law. The committee worked it out. Then you can't, then you can't sign it. And as Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Parobius, you can't just sign the final text because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u218	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u219	So, colleagues, let's make a common position without charges. Repeat the second or third reading. And we're going to balance this law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u220	And the amendment is for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u221	So I'm betting on confirmation. This is the last amendment, the 49th amendment of Aleksiev. The committee supported her. The committee's asking her to take it into account and place it on confirmation. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote 49 for confirmation. Please be supportive. [[12:35:47.]] For 252 We've been through all the repairs. I will now give both the head of the committee and the representative of the President of Ukraine for final positions. Please, Egor Sobolev, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u222	The voting that took place in this room is a hole in one of the most important anti-corruption laws that has really been made possible by Euromaidan, which has been very supportive of European society and our friends in the United States. I would like to remind you that this legislation is a prerequisite for cancelling visas for Ukrainians to Europe. Now you've made holes in it, and you've done a lot of stupid things! I have no idea how this law can sign the Speaker of Parliament. I will not sign a law that conflicts with each other in each article. You have just voted on the amendment by Chernobyl that people who first submit the declaration should submit it in 2018, and then the same people voted on the amendment by Alexiev that they should submit on May 1, 2017. What is the name of this disease, Mr. Beresuk, tell me? I need professional advice. This is no way to approach the adoption of laws, especially the most important laws that have led this country forward. I'm asking you to send this law back to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u223	Arthur Gerasimov. Please turn on the microphone for two minutes, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, I would like to support this law as a whole, taking into account the law, the transcript that I expressed regarding the military, taking into account what our colleague Blackwall said under the transcript regarding the exclusion of the media, and taking into account what my colleague Andriyevsky said. Thank you for your attention. Please support this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u225	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who mentioned it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues who it was. In offensive form? Did Jegor Sobolev mention in abusive form? Oleg, I already gave my word today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Read the Rules of Procedure when. In an offensive form. I'll give you a minute, but don't manipulate it, please. Please, just a minute, Oleg Berezuk, and let's get to the vote. There'll be a vote in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u226	Dear Chairman, it's a very scary disease, I don't call it what it's called, it's when on the one hand it's fear, and on the other hand it's people, on the one hand it's fear of losing money, and on the other hand it's fear of people. It's no coincidence that you picked up a "breath in a glass" through the Passport Act. You're hiding behind it. behind this scandal, this scandal, when you broke what people asked you to do -- honesty and transparency. This is a crime against the Ukrainian nation and against the Ukrainian people by covering up. Private and Sergeants of the Ukrainian Army.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u227	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please be prepared. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (No. 6172) with proposals that were made under the Blackwall transcript because I agree that all media should be thrown out, and Andreyevsky and Gerasim, yes, in the second reading, and in the second reading, and in the whole of the technical and legal rights that have to be handled by the judiciary. Please vote, please support. [[12:40:26]] For 268. 268 – yes. Decision taken. The law is passed, the second reading and the whole law is passed. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the next law is the bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. The machine hasn't prepared the plates yet. They'll be after lunch, these tables. And I have a request that we may pass. That is, the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. About the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, tables are not yet ready. And I'm asking you now to move on to the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine. As soon as it's ready, we'll set up a cultural fund right after lunch. As soon as it's ready, at 4:00 we'll set up a cultural fund. So we go to the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine with the President's proposals from 18.11.2017 (3081-d). I would like to point out that the draft law provides for a special procedure: first the report of the President, then the answers to the questions, then the co-report and the answers to the questions. But I have a request, colleagues, that we give all six minutes to ask the Prince. Agreed? So there's more understanding. Therefore, please report, the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Mikola Leonidovich, is invited to the floor. Please report, Ukrainian Law 3081. Yes, the procedure is reported by the committee head. Mr. Mikola, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! We're moving on to a very important law, so I would ask those who, after a difficult vote, went out into the towers, but still go back to the hall. Because it's the Film Support Act that we've all supported, voted, discussed for over a year and a half. Later, the President vetoed the bill and proposed his own amendments to the bill. For quite a long time, representatives of our committee, the Committee on Media, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Information, the Ministry of Information, representatives of industry met with the President, discussed him, came together to compromise and amend the President's proposals and was the result of this compromise. This is an extremely important law that will allow Ukraine, in fact, to stop being a leader in piracy. This is an important law that will raise and enable you to develop a Ukrainian cinematographer, which is an extremely important law that will involve Ukrainian investment. At its meeting on 22 March 2017, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (registration No. 3081-d) adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 September 2016. On the basis of the proposals and comments made by the President of Ukraine, the committee, together with representatives of the President's Administration and with the participation of public experts, worked out the draft bill and prepared a table of proposals by the President. The revisions, as provided for in the Supreme Council Rules Act, relate solely to those provisions of the law to which the President's remarks were made, namely, to reconcile the rules of the law with those of budgetary legislation, particularly in part of the financial basis of state support for cinema. A form of State support, a mechanism to grant government subsidies to recover some of the eligible costs. Expansion in the purchase of appropriate jobs and services under the Public Procurement Act, as well as exclusion of regulations relating to changes in monetary legislation. Please support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and adopt the Committee's amended law as a whole, as proposed by the committee. Please return to the hall of all those who have just left, and I want to say what our committee worked out and prepared yesterday a law on the Ukrainian cultural fund that we are waiting for today in the hall. He was also unanimously supported by the committee. The faction I belong to, the People's Front faction will also support this bill and, accordingly, the President's proposal bill to support cinema. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u229	Dear colleagues! I'll inform you once again that six minutes I'm giving to the head of the committee and I'm taking those three minutes from the President's representative. That is, twice the length of the committee’s head so that it can explain the details of the law in more detail. Please record the question to the reporter, please. Please, Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u230	Dear colleagues! There's a big threat now, looking at the hall, that this bill will be supported. But as a member of the committee, as the first deputy head of the committee, I am addressing you all, indeed, this version of the bill that we are currently considering is the result of compromises. That's why we support this bill and ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u231	Thank you. Holy, please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u232	Please pass the word to a colleague of Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u233	Dear colleagues! I've been approached by representatives of the cinematographic community, and they say that the bill has already been developed to a normal level, that we can adopt it today. Then the questions to the speaker, please tell us what changes to the bill submitted by the President today and how much support we will see on the television screens today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u234	Thank you. There was a whole series of changes, one of them referring, for example, to the fact that the bill pointed out that 0.2 percent of budget spending is required to be sent to support the cinematographer. The president made a comment, and we agreed that this amount should be in line with the Budget Code when voting for the Budget Code. There was a whole series of other comments. One of them involved, for example, the notion of cash refund. Cash Refund is the return of part of the taxes that will be paid by foreign companies that, together with Ukrainian film companies, will be paid if they make movies about Ukraine to demonstrate them in the West to get some of those taxes back. There we suggested that this return should be 25 percent, actually 16 percent, 6 percent, as required by Ukrainian legislation. There was such a proposal that the Law on State Procurement should not be distributed for competitions when choosing a film. Nevertheless, the president suggested that this law be distributed, and we agreed. There was an offer in the joint production films to limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u235	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u236	limit currency regulation. The president insisted that the National Bank, as in other cases, license this currency regulation during joint production. The committee agreed with the President’s proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u237	Thank you. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u238	Good afternoon, dear fellows! There is no doubt that the fight against piracy must be supported, with illegal content. I have one question for Mr. Princely. I'm asking you to confirm that we're looking at the Bill with the letter "d," because there was a bill in the room today without the letter "d," where the text doesn't match the reality. And I want to confirm that you can confirm under the transcript that there's still a reasonable solution to the dispute. Because there was no such thing in that paper that was handed out to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u239	In fact, there was an error printing the law: registration number 3081 has been written. In fact, we're actually looking at 3081d, where the possibilities of pre-trial dispute resolution are taken into account when the breach is taken away. The way we talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u240	Thank you. Gopko Hanna. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u241	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This is an extremely important Act on State Support for Cinematography, which we must support in all the halls. And I hope that my colleagues will return now to vote. We saw in 2016 when the number of films made at the expense of government funds and on the screens increased. In particular, movies like "Live," "My Grandma Fanny Kaplan," then "The Goose Nest," and we're very important after we've adopted the Law, and it's already working, on quotas for Ukrainian songs on the radio, and now the Act on Support by the State of Cinematography, and we're continuing to build our identity, supporting various industries, in particular, here cinematography for the development of Ukrainian culture, for the promotion of our positions in the world, particularly through state funding, cultural diplomacy and the promotion of the state. So I urge my colleagues to return to the hall and vote in favour of this bill, thank you, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u242	Thank you. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u243	I would very much ask the faction leaders now to contact their colleagues to return to the hall, I think they have already rested after the previous difficult vote you know how much effort we have made to all the halls, all together representatives of all the factions before this bill is passed. And I would be grateful if people would now return to the hall to take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u244	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u245	I am, indeed, Andri Volodymyrovich, to you and to Mr. Knieżicki, with the same request, to urge the people's deputies to adopt an impeccable bill. I thank all the people who have worked on this bill, who have been able to push it and bring it to Parliament. I think there's not one good job we're going to see on our own screens in the near future, we're going to be able to dedeologicalize the things that make words like "patriotism," "heroism in war," and actually screen the stories of our boys' life stories that we've known since the war with the Russian Federation. Thank you again, and I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u246	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u247	I agree with my colleague Kiskar. Thank you for your support. I mean, you know we're working on a lot of laws. We've narrowed it down to our decision to demonstrate films and shows from the occupying country and movies and serials that glorify the occupying powers. At the same time, in order to support Ukrainian television and Ukrainian cinematographers, we must not only prohibit but also support them. Therefore, the adoption of this law is an extremely important ideological step, a step that must be followed by Ukrainian cinematographers, Ukrainian artists, Ukrainian television companies and allow them to produce their own product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u248	Thank you. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u249	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, well, this is precisely the decision we have no right to fail in this room today. This document was also worked on by representatives of the film industry, representatives of television channels that today need Ukrainian film to demonstrate on the air. And it's obviously the solution that can have, well, extremely serious consequences for Ukrainian culture, for Ukrainian ideology. And everyone in the room understands that. So for any reason, when the deputies just went to the dining room, we can't fail it. I have a question for the committee head. Do we have an estimate of how many movies we can make? I'd like to bring to your knowledge, colleagues, that last year, when we banned Russian shows, we made a record number of Ukrainian films that were more than one year old than we had in all of our previous years of independence. How many movies can we expect in Ukraine to be made after this document is approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u250	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u251	Well, it's hard for me to answer how much you can take. We know that only 30 Ukrainian films were made last year. We say "only," although this is a huge victory for us. Because a few years ago, we actually made one or two Ukrainian movies a year. And this last year, 30 of these movies came out. I want to tell you that in that country that we call an aggressor country, 15 years ago, when we introduced the benefits and the state support for cinematography, there were over 100 films, and now it's thousands. Obviously, being represented in today's world, in the competition of ideas and in the competition of culture, which is or is the best promotion, we would have to use this law to at least increase the number of films that will be made in Ukraine by at least five times, and I'm already talking about TV shows that have to be completely replaced by TV shows from the occupying country that we're all used to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u252	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in five minutes. I am very much asking the factions to give a message so that in five minutes all the deputies will arrive in the voting room. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report that a vote will take place in 5-7 minutes for everyone to arrive in the hall. Now Silantiev, question, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u253	Thank you. I'd like to clarify the point of funding. Are there any other sources of funding for this fund other than the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u254	Thank you. Obviously, the fund can be financed in a variety of ways. In our version, there was a point that said that this fund could be financed by lottery money and gambling. But the President denied, and we agreed with him. What does this have to do with anything? With the idea that lottery and gambling should be adopted a separate bill, which should also provide for the transparency of the lottery and gambling market, and where and how the money will be channelled. If such a law is passed and there are various funds in this law that we vote on or support this law, that will be possible. In the meantime, this is excluded from the law because there was no law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u255	Krivenko, Burbak, and we're closing the question. Please, Krivenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u256	I would like to thank the committee and Mr. Princely personally for this work. On the Committee on Budgets, we discussed this issue, and we unanimously supported the Committee on Allocations. And I want to point out that as an author. One of the authors of the Ukrainian Language Act on the radio content appears to be professionalism, and so it will appear in the movies. This is a particular sector that needs state support that has to be competitive and that has to generate dozens and thousands of high-paid jobs. In addition to what my colleague Paul Kishkar said, the role in education is also an industry in the economics sector, so these expenses are total. And I have a simple question for you. We initiated, and then the issue of banning printed literature, printed products from the aggressor country, or Pushkin, Dostoyevsky, we should read, our children should be educated, but let them print in Ukraine, load Ukrainian polygraph power, create jobs in Ukraine. Which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u257	I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u258	Please, 30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u259	I wanted you to tell me what stage this bill is at when it goes out to the hall. And so that we can be sure of that. So it's not about banning literature in Russian, it's about creating it in Ukraine. Because this is the same thing as the bookstore in Russia, it's a state policy of expansion, it's part of a so-called "Russian measure." Let this literature load Ukrainian publications and create jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u260	Thank you. I want to tell you that the relevant bill, perhaps, that partially takes into account the things you're talking about, has already been adopted. It is the responsibility of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media, since they traditionally do so. On the committee yesterday, we heard a report by the minister of culture. They took him in, they supported him. He's here. But the ministry's proposals in the part you're talking about were discussed exactly the same way. And we discussed the revitalization of the work of the Ukrainian Institute of Books, which we voted for, but which is still at the start stage. As soon as this institution works, and this is going to happen this year, and this proposal of yours, and another on supporting Ukrainian literature and limiting other literature that is detrimental to Ukrainian national interests, will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u261	Thank you. Thank you. One last question for Victoria Sumar. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three minutes. And then Condratuk, colleagues, two: Victoria Sumar, one minute, Condratjuk, one minute. Then the report, Gerasimov. And we vote. Two minutes. That's the structure to vote. Please, Victoria Sumar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u262	Well, actually, there's nothing else I can say about how simply to ask my fellow national deputies to come back from the Ukrainian Supreme Council table right now. Because there are so many passions that we actually have tactical bills. And we don't see this strategy. It's a strategic document that we're looking at right now. It will enable us to finally build the system of Ukrainian culture that we are working on today. This is essential today in order to promote Ukrainian ideology. The approach that the President of Ukraine and the Committee are proposing today is one of the best approaches in the world that actually allows us to make Ukraine one of the leaders, the leaders of the world in the production of film products. For us, this is a fundamentally important question today, given that we are building our identity today, we are building our own history today, our approach to ideology. That's why I'm asking everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u263	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u264	to understand the importance of this document, because it's not a tactical bill, it's not just a bill that we're looking at in this room, it's a story that we're making today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u265	I would like to say that there is no faction or MP group whose representatives have not joined or supported this bill. We've just witnessed many of the bills that divided the hall. This bill truly unites us because it speaks of the future and allows us to create Ukrainian culture together. Therefore, I would like to ask everyone to come forward and take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u266	Condrat, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, I won't be long either. I want to say that this is, indeed, a very strategic proposal that we should all vote on today. Instead, I'd like to point out that before this basic bill, we're going to accept the changes to the Tax Code and the Customs Code. So we still have a lot of work to do. And now, really, let's accumulate all of our efforts that are possible and impossible and vote on this strategic bill today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u268	Thank you. Andrew Lozový, one minute. And please come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u269	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. When Russian film director Alexi Balabanov came to Russia's then director of FSB Putin years ago after the first "Brother", Putin told him what evil genius who our enemy is, but with the ability to work in propaganda we have to understand its level, and he said, "I want you to make 50 movies in five years." Because film is the basis of propaganda, and we need to understand that, and we need to mobilize now. Ukrainians are a very cinematographic nation. We've given the world Alexander Petrovich Longzhenk, we've given geniuses to future generations like Sergey Parajanov, like Yuri Illenko, like Kira Muratov, like Victor Gress. Now that law needs to be done, he's 20 years late. We've got 500 cinemas for a huge country, and there's got to be 5,000 like in France, there's got to be a Ukrainian movie, and there's got to be maximum state support. This is the basis of propaganda, the foundation of state ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u270	Papiev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u271	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, honourable colleagues, the opposition bloc faction supports this bill and supports the development of the Ukrainian cinematographer. We'll vote for him. But we would like to stress once again that the adoption of this law is not sufficient, we need to make appropriate basic laws, profile laws, changes, bring them into line with this law. And it's also a very big request that we work out a formula for an evenly unbiased distribution of funds so that it works for the development of the Ukrainian cinematographer and for everyone to be in equal conditions. Thank you for your support. And we vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u272	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. I'll give it to you. Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for the report. I now invite the representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Artura Volodimirovic. But there will be no more questions. Questions. The time has been spent for the Prince. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, on September 22, 2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act "On State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine" (registration No. 3081-d) of 27.11.2015, which regulates the basic principles of public policy aimed at supporting domestic cinematography: the form and order of State financial support for cinematography subjects, in particular the granting of a state grant to reimburse part of the costs incurred in producing the film, the creation of a state support fund for cinematography and its legal status. The prescribed law was not signed by the President, but after that, thanks to the efforts of the committee, the efforts of all interested persons and the public were fully resolved. And today I ask you to support the President's proposals and vote in favour of this law definitively. Thank you for your attention. In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u274	Thank you. And one minute to the minister of culture who came to the meeting to consider this question, Eugene Nietschuk. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear people's deputies, indeed, this could be a cultural quarter for us and I would very much like to support this bill. There's one nuance that's often confused -- the production of a full meter and a television format. And we've been spending so much money lately on making a full-length movie that went to the movies, but they didn't come and it didn't change the picture on TV. This law just provides a moment of momentum for Ukrainian films to appear in the television format. Moreover, in order for the expert board, what MP Papiev rightly said, to be independent of the distribution of the funds for films, to be independent players who can make Ukrainian films on channels, it is a very important impulse. And so I see, Mr. Head, that there is already a number of deputies and there is a climate that is hurting for the development of Ukrainian cinema, and we can hope that this bill will now be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u276	Thank you. Just ask the national deputies who are next to you to take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall, this is an extremely responsible bill. As Russia wages a hybrid war against Ukraine, it must be understood that fighting is not just in the trenches of the Donbasa front, the battles continue in the souls, the thoughts, the Ukrainians in the back and across Ukraine, and the Putinian Russia throws mad money into financing their lying propaganda, especially their cinematographers. We have to give a fair answer to the enemy and this draft of the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine is important not only for culture, but without exaggeration, for Ukraine's national security, so I ask everyone to support this bill. And I am voting on the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine with Presidential Proposals (since 18.11.2015) 3081-d on the Committee's proposal to accept in general, taking into account the President's proposals. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Please support, I would like to vote 3081-d in general, taking into account the President of Ukraine's proposals for State support for cinema in Ukraine. Please vote. Please support, we vote, colleagues. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:09:40]] For 270. 270-yes. The law is passed. Colleagues! This was indeed the adoption of a state decision. We need to be aware that miracles may not happen in a year, but I am convinced that in a year and a half, we will see the effect of this law when quality Ukrainian tape appears in cinemas and on television, and we have given this a very important incentive today. Welcome, colleagues, to the adoption of this bill. The next thing we know, it's a matter of ratification, colleagues. It's not complicated, it's not complicated, but it's very important to the government today, to the government. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on the granting of a loan under the terms of the related aid. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:10:53]] For 184 184 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Finance Minister Bucu Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u277	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is given to the bill on the ratification of the Framework Agreement before the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary (as regards the granting of a loan on a conditional basis). In accordance with the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the Framework Agreement is subject to ratification because it contains provisions on the financial conditions for obtaining Ukraine's credit. These credit costs will be aimed at financing investment projects from the construction of capital and the ongoing repair of roads on the Ukrainian-Hungarian border. So the financial environment itself is very attractive. That's it. the size of the loan of 50 million euros for 18.5 years with a maturity of one and a half years, the interest rate on the loan is zero. But the condition is that 50 percent of the goods, jobs, and services will be Hungarian. The bill will allow these sections to be repaired, which are just going to the borders, from the Hungarian side, and these roads have already been completely repaired, so this is a very important bill for the development of the region. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to a member of the Committee on European Integration, Gregory Timish. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u279	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on the granting of a loan under the conditions of related assistance has been prepared with a view to carrying out the internal State procedures necessary to ensure that Ukraine is bound by an international agreement and that it enters into force. Under the terms of the Framework Agreement, the total amount of credit costs is 50 million euros. A loan is issued for a period of 18.5 years at a rate of credit payment and interest for the use of a zero interest rate of 1.5 years. The credit is provided to finance investment projects to build border road infrastructure on the Ukrainian-Hungarian border, as well as to finance other projects agreed upon by the parties. According to the Explanatory Note, the adopted law does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. On March 22, this year, the European Integration Committee reviewed the text of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on the granting of conditional aid, and we request such decisions. This decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u280	Thank you, Mr. Gregory. Colleagues, is there a need to discuss ratification of this bill? Yes. I ask you to sign up: two, two, no, to discuss the bill on. A framework agreement between the Ukrainian and Hungarian governments on the granting of credit. Please sign up. Please give Chizmaru the word of national deputy Linko. Please, Mr. Chizmaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u281	Ladies and gentlemen. Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. You see, this is a fine example of how a country that has conquered corruption in these years, a small country with ten million people, today, can provide free long - term loans for a forty - million or fifty million - million - dollar nation that has polluted corruption. [[Applause]] The country we helped in our time can help us today. Here is an example of the fight against corruption, why it should be fought. The Hungarians today are concerned not only with the Hungarians but also with the Ukrainians, who will cross the border in the same way and receive better infrastructure. But I'd like to turn around. over another problem. Today it's about building a transnational road in Lisbon Kiev. It will reach the Ukrainian border. And then what? And then we destroyed all the land where the road infrastructure was supposed to go, and we can't build a bus to Kiev if we don't adopt an effective law on land removal for the state to build communications. And that's why this problem is based on road infrastructure, electricity lines, gas stations and other infrastructure projects that are standing in Ukraine. So this is an example, and I still urge the Supreme Council to focus and consider adopting an effective law on land reform, especially to foresee how we are removing land for our infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u282	Thank you. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Krilenko gives the floor, I understand, to Ivan Krulk. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u283	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction at its meeting decided to vote in favour of this ratification. Of course, it is extremely important that there will be some kind of infrastructure development in Ukraine. Of course, I would very much like to have 100 percent of the work done by Ukrainian businesses done by Ukrainian citizens in order to create additional jobs. But at the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that not only do we need to worry about, including with the cost of foreign loans, building roads to the border, but we need to build road infrastructure in the Zakartat region. Because of this, the state of roads that are now in the Zacarpathian region is effectively halted to the full extent of the tourist potential of Zacarpathia. That's why I propose that, honourable colleagues, that we vote in favour of such bills, but not in favour of the remaining principle, but first of all, that we finance the development of road infrastructure in those areas that can give added value to the Ukrainian State, which will increase the tourism capabilities of the Carpathian Empire and create jobs accordingly, Ukraine will work not abroad, not in the Czech Republic, not in Hungary, not in other countries, but to return to Ukraine and work here, in Ukraine, at the same time by funding its families and maintaining its families. Fatherland will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u284	I'm sorry, please, the P.O.P.P.'s. National MP Krivenko from Peter Prashenko's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u285	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. They were absolutely right to say that all the loans we get under our state guarantees, which we will then return, should be done by Ukrainians. For example, my colleague Podlisecki and I fought in 2014 against the conditions in which our Ukrainian producers Ukrenergo were set up, when, for our money, we issued a guarantee for Ukrainian money, we got a loan, and contractors were taking out of India, even though we had two factories that could make it, we were hauling wire from Spain, even though we had Ukrainian factories that could do it. Today, the same problem is in Energoatom. We give our guarantees, we return this money, and we get contractors to make discriminatory terms and lobby those companies and those fittings that are from their countries, not Ukrainian contractors. Second position. We should also be very clear about what Comrade Chizmar said that Hungary is lending us loans. The country that applauded the government’s senseless decision in 2005 to shut down free economic zones, instead of bringing order and closing down the smuggling of corkscrews that were in a single Donetsk zone, instead, including in Zakarpatta, the free economic zone closed. During that time, Jabil, Flextronix, Eurocar, thousands of high-tech jobs were built. And we took it one night, and we closed it down, although we guaranteed 30 years not to make it worse for investors. Adopted in 2001 and cancelled in 2005. And all our neighbors applauded us, opened their free economic zones, industrial parks, built infrastructure, and now they view us as a tourist area and as a region that will provide them with labor. So the basis for everything is the right economic policy. I'm asking you to vote for the law. This is to be done, but with these warnings that colleagues have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u286	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Nestor Schufrich, please. And then Lunchenko of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u287	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor. There's a clear, simple question: how do we get the money to be channelled to a foreign country, to our neighbor, to a good neighbor, to restore and strengthen our infrastructure? And it's probably good that this money is going to be controlled. I don't think there's going to be any proper contractors under control, and that's where this money is going to go, it's going to be controlled, because that's what this money is going to be given. So the road will be built, and already the question of the relevant authorities controlling Ukraine, so that someone does not take advantage of this construction. And we have the opportunity to do that, at least I hope so. And on this point, I think we should just thank the Hungarian government, the Hungarian people. And I am very happy to do so in your presence. [[Hungarian expression]] . Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u288	Mr. Nestor, can you translate what you just said in English so we can understand? It was the same in Hungarian. Thanks to the Hungarian government. Thank you. Please, Mr. Lunchenko. Just so we know that we have words from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u289	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Well, first of all, we need to understand the responsibility of accepting this ratification. We should be responsible for the treaty signed by the government and the commitments made. As early as 2010, the Ukrainian government made a commitment to the project, namely to build a road from the Beregovo crossing to the Kiev-Chop international route. Accordingly, our state has not, as usual, implemented these agreements, and today we have a situation where, on the Hungarian side, the M3 International Highway approaches the border and, on the Ukrainian side, the pits knee-deep, there are no roads, just one direction. In fact, our nation had to provide funding from the state budget and fulfil its commitments. But since we have such a situation that we cannot predict these costs in the State Budget today, with former Infrastructure Minister Maxim Burbak, we have raised this issue, and it is very relevant today, because we have to carry out our commitments and finish this road for the next two years. I want to thank all those who have made the effort.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u290	30 seconds. We must give the People's Front 30 seconds. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u291	I would also like to express my gratitude to Prime Minister Groissman, who took this initiative and signed the ratification intentions. So I urge all the deputies today to support, this is a very important step in building the infrastructure of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u292	Thank you for the position of the People's Front. [[B in m in s a l in]] A representative of the Human Rights Committee insists. Please, Valery Paccan, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u293	Dear Chairman! People's Honourable Deputies! We have been discussing this issue for three years. For three years as the Hungarian government has agreed on a tranche of credit to build this highway. Three years only. And now I want to thank the government of Vladimir Borisovich for having managed to vote in favour of the government guarantee at my meeting and yet to make it possible for us to get this loan from the Hungarian government. During the presentations of all my colleagues, I also support them, and I also want to thank them for this tranche of credit. And if we're saying that Ukraine is Europe, then we need to step closer to this Europe. I'm more than confident that this M03 international link will connect to M06, which will go to Kiev, we'll have normal infrastructure. And in this way we can build new points of the pass, so we can connect Ukraine with one of the European countries. Everyone, please return to the hall. And please, all of you, I urge you to vote. This is a technical issue that requires our very attention with you, colleagues. And all of our comrades, please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u294	Thank you, colleagues! So we finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please enter the hall, take up jobs. And please invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the factions' heads to the Hall. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And we're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Hungary on the granting of a loan under the terms of the related aid (No.0136) proposed by the Committee as a whole. Please vote, please support ratification 0136 as a whole. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote. Vote. [[13:26:10]] For 243 The law is passed, colleagues. Let's move on to the next, in fact, extension of this law. This is the next draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian National Budget for 2017 (for road infrastructure on the Ukrainian-Hungarian border) Act (No.6143). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please consider the simplified procedure, please support. [[13:26:50]] For 178. Decision taken. Colleagues, this is a binding technical law. Should we support him? We're supporting, aren't we? We're backing it up. So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian National Budget for 2017 (road infrastructure at the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border) bill, taking into account the Committee's proposals on the basis and overall. Taking into account the Committee's proposals 6143. We're just confirming what we just voted on. Please vote, please support as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. [[13:27:55]] For 233 The law is passed. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the issue of the block that is today, industrial policy and entrepreneurship. And I ask all of you, colleagues, to prepare for the consideration of an important block today of order. And I'm the first to review the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Introduction of New Investment Opportunities, Guaranteeing the Rights and Legal Interests of Entrepreneurship Subjects for Large-Scale Energy Modernization (No.4549). It's a block of second reading. And I invite the head of the committee on industrial policy, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. And I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u295	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! In our second reading, we are considering Bill 4549, which introduces important technical changes and refinements to the basic Law on the Introduction of New Investments, Guaranteeing the Rights and Legal Interests of Entrepreneurship Subjects for Large-Scale Energy Modernization. I'll remind you that you and I have already passed a basic law in this area. I am very grateful to our Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprise and to the Committee on Budgets, which have worked and laid this foundation. Today, in order to move the energy-generating mechanism out of place so that it will work in Ukraine so that we can secure the energy-generating capacity of almost 80,000 budgetary institutions, it is necessary to maintain warming in kindergartens, schools, hospitals, universities today to support this bill 4549. Its main task is to ensure that the purchase of energy services works through new legislation on public procurement and through a transparent system. The effects of this legislation are enormous. It's an economy of over a billion cubic gases a year, a corresponding economy of over 8 billion dollars in budgets of different levels, it's going to help bring in almost $8 billion in investments in Ukraine from the United States, which will generate additional demand for machine building products, construction materials, that's creating tens of thousands of jobs. And what's important is that it's a real mechanism for us to reduce our energy consumption, how we don't pay for import gas, how we can ensure that the economy develops on the basis of domestic investment demand. Therefore, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the bill and suggested that it be supported in a second reading and generally as a law. And I'm going to ask for one more clarification from the voice below the protocol. In view of the fact that this bill has long been considered by the committee, it is necessary to remove the words "in effect as of 1 February 2017" in the Final Positions. Please, with this clarification and technical legal process, support the bill as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u296	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. And we're moving on to the amendments, not so many, colleagues, so I'm asking you not to get too far away. 1 amendment of the People's Deputy Rybchin. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone. Mr. Halasyuk, if you need a comment, raise your hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u297	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Colleagues, if you choose between drinking coffee or tea in a buffet, or voting for an important bill that will allow you to report to the electorate, what you specifically did in the field of energy conservation and warming schools, kindergartens in your districts. I propose that you stay and vote for this bill of state as soon as possible is almost the only thing the Supreme Council can do in terms of energy efficiency, and I ask you to support other bills aimed at reducing energy consumption and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u298	Comment, please, Mr. Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u299	Thank you. Dear colleague Rybchin, thank you for your initiative and for systematically caring for energy efficiency issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u300	Mr. Rybchin, do you insist on voting? Don't insist, there was just a trailer. Next, 3 amendments to the Sage People's Deputy. Is the sage insisting? I can't see. 6th Amendment, People's Deputy Sažko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 8 Amendment, People's Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. 17th National MP Sažko. Don't insist. 21st National Deputy Sažko. Or Martovicki is a co-author. Don't insist. 23rd, Sažko, Martovitchki. No, Sažko. Don't insist. 25th, Sažko. Don't insist. 36th, Sažko. Don't insist. 39th, Sažko. Don't insist. 58th, Rybchin. Colleagues, we're all done here. We have to move now to a vote taking into account the technical legal rights and the key amendment that the head of the committee made under the transcript is that the bill does not enter into force on February 1, 2017, because it has long been discussed in the session hall. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session hall, because we have a block of legislation going on in terms of industrial politics and entrepreneurship. Colleagues, please return to the session room. I ask the secretariat to announce an invitation for the deputies to return to the session room. I'll give you 30 seconds, a minute. Mr. Halasyuk's closing statement. Please summarize the bill. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to return to the session room. Especially those who voted in favour of cancelling the break until 14 o’clock. Please proceed with your vote now, please return to the session room. Please, Mr. Galasjuk, let's close.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u301	Dear colleagues! I invite you to support this strategically important bill. Because, according to it, the energy service modernization mechanism in Ukraine is working, when without budgetary capital investments, we can get billions of United States dollars into warming, thermo-modernization of budgetary institutions, schools, hospitals, kindergartens, universities, and reduce natural gas consumption by nearly one billion cubic metres, without the State's capital investment. Investors only get a fraction of the economy if they do. This is an extremely important bill for the country, this is a real step towards Ukraine's energy dependency. Please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u302	My colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill has positive conclusions and scientific expertise, and a committee with these rights. I urge the deputies once again to return to the session room, because we will now proceed to the vote under Bill No. 4549. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Introduction of New Investment Opportunities, Guaranteeing the Rights and Legal Interests of Entrepreneurs for Large-Scale Energy Modernization (for the Energy Service Mechanism) as a basis and as a whole. In the second reading, we are now voting on this bill, with technical and legal remedies, which are spoken by the head of the committee under the transcript. Thank you very much, colleagues, for these clarifications. And we put it to a vote. Please all support this bill. [[13:37:35]] For 228
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u303	228 – yes. The law is passed. And we move on to the next Law, which is very short. This is Law 5105, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Investment Act (for state investment projects). Don't break up, because the right hand is just a minimum. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u304	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! I present to you in second reading the draft Act amending the Investment Activities Act (for state investment projects) (No. 5105). The aim of this bill is to increase the efficiency of state investment in Ukraine, which is unfortunately at an extremely low level today. If you look at the list of state investment projects in the country today, I think you'll be shocked because there's even a reconstruction of the Marian Palace. Anything but the development of the infrastructure and the development of the Ukrainian industry. In order to remedy this situation, this bill, which was worked by the authors together with the working group, with the Ministry of Finance, has a number of professional consultations, allows, including, to distinguish between "state investment" and "State support" on the one hand. On the other hand, it's the question of public investment and the question of local investment, because it's a completely different type of activity. In addition, the bill allows, requires the selection of projects based on an economic analysis of the effectiveness of such investment, not after the provision of legislation today. So we're going to analyze first, and then we're already doing state registration and state investment. In addition, this bill is an extremely important norm – it is possible to secure a stake in the statutory capital of a legal person in public or municipal property if the State or municipality makes such an investment. In addition, it is very important to rule on decentralization of decision-making – to empower local authorities to make investment decisions at the expense of local budgets. Well, finally, it's all of these projects that have been given state support or state investment projects to a state-owned relevant register to monitor, implement and evaluate their effectiveness. This law requires us to increase the effectiveness of state investment projects to a qualitatively new level so that they have a claim to the Ministry of Economics to enable the authorities to implement the investment policy of Ukraine for the benefit of every citizen, to build infrastructure, to rebuild the Ukrainian industry. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as a whole as a law in the second reading of technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u305	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are only two rebuttals of the National MP Sphenov, he does not insist on their confirmation. And so we can immediately go to the vote. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. I warned you there was no right here. And prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take your seats, and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Investment Act (State Investment Projects) (No. 5105) as a second reading and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. All factions support him. 5105 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:42:22]] For 224 224. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please do not hold any discussions during the vote. And I'm now voting on the proposal to return to 5105. Please vote. Please support the return to 5105. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Return to 5105, to the vote. Please be supportive. [[13:43:02]] For 228 228. We're back. Now we go to the vote: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Investment Act (No. 5105) on second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Carefully, each voice has a weight. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:43:36]] For 234 234-yes. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next law, industrial policy and entrepreneurship. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of seals by legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs (No.4194). This is also a second reading. And I invite the head of the committee, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, to report. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u306	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich. Dear fellow national MPs! I present to you the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of seals by legal persons, natural persons entrepreneurs (No.4194) of the People's Deputies of Doves and Sotnik. Dear colleagues, I'll remind you of a little story. As early as 2011, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine had cancelled the need to obtain a permit for printing. In 2014, the Supreme Council acknowledged no. voluntary use of seals in the farm. But still, Ukrainian legislation contains a series of residual norms that essentially create artificial colossals in this area. Thus, the bill is designed to finally address this issue, to remove the legal risks of the current uncertainty of legislation, and it states directly that the presence or absence of a seal on the document does not create legal consequences. So we put a dot on this issue, we rule out the mandatory use of seals, since this is not the norm in the vast majority of civilized countries, we exclude the possibility of declaring the document invalid because of the lack of sealing. In addition, we introduce administrative responsibility for requiring a public authority or a local self-governance to have a stamp on the official document, as the bill repeals them. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship has considered this bill and has proposed that it be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law in the drafting of a committee with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u307	Thank you. Please prepare the right-wing authors for discussion. I'll read it. 2nd row, Dove. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 3rd, Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Four. Semenha. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u308	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues! Amendment 4 proposes to exclude from the bill the rule on the imposition of administrative responsibility, requiring the official to be present on the document submitted by the holder, a sealing of the document. What causes such an adjustment? The very social danger of action is a fundamental objective sign on the basis of which the matter is resolved, whether it is a crime or not. Moreover, it can be entirely predicted that even if the protocols for the alleged administrative offence were to be drawn up, the guilty officials would be relieved of their responsibility and shut down on the basis of article 22 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the basis of a small amount of action. But since even minor administrative misdemeanors carry out full conduct in the matter, the State will bear material costs without compensation from the guilty official. Because the latter will be announced only by oral remark. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u309	Please, Mr. Victor, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u310	Thank you. Dear Mr. Roman, thank you for your offer. It's not supported by the committee. Because the bill contains direct rules that a seal print cannot be required to require a copy of any document submitted by the authority or local self-government. Directly, the existence or absence of sealing is said to have no legal, legal consequences. Thus, we believe that there is administrative responsibility, it will encourage public officials from violating legislation and strict adherence to the rule of law. Please support the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u311	Do you insist on voting? So I'm voting on Amendment No. 4, which was introduced by the People's Deputy of Semimenach. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:48:43]] For 128 The decision is not made. Next, 8th, Semenha. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 13th, Semenha, does not insist. 15th, Vanat. 14th, insists, I'm sorry, Semenach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u312	Dear colleagues! The draft Law reserves the right to use seals in its activities under the care of the owners. At the same time, if the company decides to continue to use the seal, it will have no legal effect on the documents. In view of this, it is not clear why we should retain the right to use the seal if it does not have any legal meaning. Instead, my line of 14 suggests a more balanced approach based on European experience. A seal abroad retains a legal meaning, in fact, the seal does not confirm the authority of the official, but it does confirm the validity of the signature of the official. That is why it suggests that if the owner uses a seal in his work, the information on the availability of the seal, the information on the availability of the seal and the cases of its mandatory application, should be determined by the installation documents and the circle of the owner. This information will be made publicly available, and the absence of a seal on the document on which the company's statute is to be stamped will produce the corresponding legal effects. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u313	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u314	Thank you. Dear colleague, this is not supported by the committee because we believe that the solution to the issue of using or not using a seal at the level of the installation documents will only create additional legal uncertainty in the trade. Since the counterparties will not know whether this is provided or not at the installation level, we will create additional, completely artificial risks. We think that the editorial that the committee agrees with today is completely balanced and is consistent with the principle of explicit legal treatment. Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u315	Do they insist on voting? So I'm putting to the vote amendment number 14, the national deputy of Semimenha, who supports the amendment, the committee rejected it, please vote, please. Vote, please. [[13:51:17]] For 121 121 – a.k.a. The decision is not taken. 16th, Odarchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u316	Dear colleagues, we adopt this law as if to deregulation of the household relationship, canceling the obligation of seals. But why do we take sides' right to decide for ourselves how to certify documents? What is wrong with the fact that two legal persons have agreed among themselves that all they exchange should be sealed? It's their business, it's the freedom of farming relations. So I ask you to delete section I, paragraph 3, of the bill, which removes the right of the parties to determine how documents are certified from the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u317	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u318	Thank you. Dear colleague, thank you for your offer. It's not supported by the committee because we're editing the committee, we're excluding this rule of "the obligation to seal the seal with a seal can be determined by written agreement of the parties." We believe that this way freedom of choice is in no way violated because the parties can continue to make such a sealing because it is not prohibited. But the absence of a direct norm will allow it to avoid colossal and double legal treatment. So I propose to support the committee's editing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u319	Do you insist on voting? Amendment 16 of the Odarchenko People's Deputies shall be put to the vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. 16th, Odarchenko. [[13:53:12]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 17th, Solvar. Don't insist. Please, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, in fact, I fully support my colleague Roman Semenich. See, let us consider whether at the time of the adoption of this law. Yes, it's progressive, but don't forget that 50 percent of Ukraine's economy is still in the shadows. So far, we can use this law to drive the shadow economy to its activity. Instead of making it easier for our entrepreneurs, we can play a very bad game with them. That is why I propose that this progressive bill be postponed today to ensure the rights and interests of business subjects. Well, not in time, let's not create opportunities for many abuses. I support my colleague Semenich, he's really making the right adjustments and I support his motions by voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u321	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u322	Thank you. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u323	Dear Mr. Maxime, I don't think the warnings you're telling me about have real ground. Well, let's face it, even here in the Supreme Council, when we make the most important decisions with you, the legislative process. As head of the committee, when I sign the bill, I sign it with my signature without any sealing, because my signature can be identified and verified. The printer does not certify or authorize the person to sign the corresponding document, it does not sign it. She's not testifying to anything about it. Whether it is the right person, it does not show by what hand this fingerprint is made and does not in any way confirm the absence or presence of any authority. I mean, actually, sealing is an illusion that today and today, we can use unkind plots to create an imagination of reliability. In fact, the signature is what works in every civilized country, is by special procedures the license plate and so on. But in the business circle, look at the experience of any y.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u324	Thank you, colleagues. There is no insistence on voting. Next 18th, right? Semenha, 18, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u325	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. I strongly support the reporter, because sealing is not necessary today. Cancelling the form of sealing, which today is a movement towards a civilized society, is absolutely right, it's an incredibly positive law that needs to be maintained. It's about the 18th Amendment. Amendment 18 is based on the generalization of foreign experience attesting to the validity of signatures in treaties concluded between the parties. Across the border, particularly in Britain, the United States has at first an alternative way of confirming the validity of the signatures of officials. This is a double-signature procedure, and if a contract is applied only if signed by two authorized officials of the company, or by the director in the presence of a witness who also signs his contract, this procedure minimizes cases and possibly falsifications of documents. That is why I propose to regulate the application of the double-signature system in Ukraine and to incorporate in the Ukrainian Civil Code a rule according to which the legal person’s instruments may be defined. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u326	Please comment, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u327	Thank you. Dear colleague! We think that the rules on two authorized persons and their signatures are inappropriate, because in fact, it could be three, and four signatures -- it's not forbidden. So I propose to support the committee's drafting and to adopt this law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u328	Do you insist on voting? No, you don't. Colleagues, I'm just going to tell you, especially those who support the law, the longer we're going to delay, the less likely it will be to support it. Then Simeoniah takes away all his adjustments. Colleagues, anyone else insisting on repairs? He insists. He insists. Odarchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u329	Dear colleagues, this is about my amendment number 28. I'll remind you that we don't cancel the seal, we cancel their liability. In my amendment, I propose that the right of a legal person to file with the sole national register of legal persons a record of the fact that all the rights of this legal person are sealed, that is, if the holder wants to use the seal that we have the right to restrict it, so I ask that the relevant standard be included and that the right to choose is left. Otherwise, this law cannot be adopted, because instead of market freedom, it will create the basis for fraud and raiding, because it is much easier to counterfeit a signature than to fake a seal under Ukraine's conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u330	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u331	Thank you. Dear colleague, regarding your offer. I pointed out at the outset that as early as 2011, seal registration was cancelled, and in 2014 their obligation was lifted. Today we're cleaning up the last of these atavims and rudiments, so no one forbids, if there's a wish, companies for internal purposes to use, to use, to use, but no one has the right to demand what is not provided by Ukrainian law. So we ask and urge the committee to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u332	Do you insist on voting? Yes. Amendment 28 of the Odarchenko People's Deputy has been put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. Please. [[13:59:29]] For-90 The decision is not taken. So we went through all the amendments to the bill. Chicken. And what's the correction? Chicken, please. What kind of amendment do you call it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u333	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! I'm not reforming, I'm just using the possibility that the morning session is not yet over, I'm making a proposal, put it to the vote so that we can vote today before the agenda is exhausted. This issue is to be voted on in the morning. We have a very tense agenda, we work very well, let's put this agenda to the vote, let's not vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u334	Colleagues, after the law. Now we're voting by law and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and in a minute there's going to be a vote, please take one minute of the summary of Victor Halasyuk. In a minute, there will be a vote, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for a decision. Please, Halasyuk Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u335	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! We invite all factions and groups to support this bill. Because it is essentially designed to bring us closer to the international practice of farming and to eliminate the residual standards in Ukrainian legislation that today create a conflict and create legal risks. This bill foresees a lack of obligation to use seals, and this is extremely important. Because we are cleaning up the illusion of reliability that is being created today and, in fact, what they can use, including the raiders in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support this bill in second reading and in general with technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u336	So let's move on to making a decision. Please take the jobs and I put to the vote a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of seals by legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs (number 4194) at the request of a second-reading committee and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[2:02:03]] For 211 Colleagues, 211, I'll put you on the way back, invite the deputies into the hall, simple. Now, while the MPs are coming in, please come into the hall, one minute of Nephrods, turn on the microphone. And for a moment, invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues, please. One minute, Nephrodhos.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u337	Dear colleagues! Please support the bill, it's very simple. We haven't registered any seals since 2011, you can just print it out of your school and use it. At the same time, the functioning of the sealing institution itself is a rudimentary feature especially in external export contracts. Because, in fact, sometimes, we have inspection bodies starting to ask, especially in the regions, why aren't contracts sealed? We start with Google, Apple, and so on, sometimes, really, I'll tell you, in the photoshop, there's some printing on them. So I'm asking very much for the process of canceling the seals to the end, to make them voluntary. The law does not prohibit anyone interested in printing, making use of it, but for all millions of entrepreneurs in Ukraine to do so, forgive the Soviets.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m0.u338	So let's concentrate, colleagues, and I'm putting a motion to vote back to the committee's proposal to vote in favour of Law 4194. Please vote, please support. Both government and committee support. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote for return to 4194, please concentrate, each vote matters. Vote, fellows! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote for the return! [[14:04:01]] For 221 Four votes. We didn't make it, I see! Colleagues, yes, please take up jobs, colleagues. I'm asking you not to go out. I'm asking you to come in. Colleagues, I'd like you to come in and invite the deputies into the hall. I'm asking you to come in, take jobs, colleagues. Come to the hall, fellows! Who is there? I ask you to vote in person and ask you to come into the hall, take your jobs, your colleagues. Invite who you are. So, colleagues, I see there's been enough deputies, right? And I'm putting the vote back to 4,194. Please, colleagues! Every voice. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote return to 4,194. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! Please support me, please vote on both the position of the government and the position of the committee. [[2:05:21]] For 221 Colleagues, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! Third time. I'll bet three times. I'm going to put the third time, and then the second time again. [[B in m in s a l in]] They turned on the siren, he reported it a hundred times! It's not the siren that needs to be addressed, it's the faction discipline that needs to be addressed. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Olya, please! Olya! She's voting, isn't she? All right, colleagues! I ask everyone to prepare for the decision now. And I'm offering the third time -- five votes short -- back to 4,194. And I'm asking you to take your seats and I'm asking you to support the offer to return to consideration 4194. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Everyone's voice is kindly requested to vote. Let's vote, colleagues, back to 4194, to the committee's proposal. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. Please vote. [[14:06:45]] For 223 There's nothing I can do, colleagues. Another reading. Please. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. That's the general requirement of the hall again, right? This is the general requirement of the hall, yes. Please. I see Victoria Sumar is here. Colleagues, all right. I'm asking you, if there's no coming back now, I'm putting the second reading again, colleagues. Everyone, please take the job. I'm voting to go back to the proposal of a committee on draft law 4194. Each voice has a weight. Do not walk in the hall, but take up your jobs. Please vote. Please support the return of 4194. Colleagues, every voice matters. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please support the return to 4194. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:08:00]] For 224 Well, that's impossible, colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] That's impossible. I'm betting on the second reading again. I'm asking you to mobilize so we don't lose the bill. So, colleagues, I'm going to make the next proposal. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the use of seals by legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs (4194) should be sent for read-out. Please vote. Please support me, colleagues, re-reading. Please be supportive. Each voice, be careful, please vote, please support the second reading of 4194. Let's vote, colleagues. [[2:08:57]] For 225 One voice. I'll do it again. Another reading. Nina Petrovna, come in, please. One vote is missing, one vote. I'm betting on re-reading 4194. The first is the return to the vote for the second time again. Please vote back to 4,194. Please vote back to 4,194. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:09:37]] For 227 227. We're back. And now again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'll put the whole thing, then the second one. So first: I'm putting Project 4194 on a second-reading committee proposal and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[14:10:13]] For 226 226 — yes. Law accepted, colleagues. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I would like to point out that work has produced a positive result without interruption. And I want to remind you that at 16 o'clock we're going into the consideration of the Cultural Fund Act, which was transferred from technical issues that weren't ready for the tables, we weren't ready to amend the law. So at 16 o'clock, we're going to continue the evening session of the Cultural Fund Act. I ask everyone to come to the hall with discipline and prepare for work. The morning session is closed. At 4:00, we'll continue our work. Thank you.
