ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Please. So please prepare for registration. People's deputies are requested to register. [[10:13:05]] 370 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Before moving to daytime affairs, a statement came to the fore from two factions of Self-Help and Parenthood, which they are willing to replace with a performance. Three minutes, Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u2	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, those events that have taken place in Ukraine in a number of regions in recent days, namely, the killing of members of the local councils, the attempts to lead a number of district councils -- all of this shows that there is direct pressure on local self-government in the country. Yesterday, when the deputy head of the Odessa district council was in fact defiantly shot in the center of the city, he received four bullet wounds. One of the bullets so far has not been able to get the doctors out of his body. All that was going on around Oleg Radkovsky was a waste of evidence that the authorities had actually crossed the line. The direct pressure on the deputies of other councils, the attempts to take out the mayors of cities, the attempts to disperse directly, as our colleagues testified to on the Cherkas City Council, when a man was killed with insolence, I think that all of this testifies to one thing, the guarantor of the Constitution of Dustenko actually cannot directly perform his functions to protect the constitutional order of the country. That is why we claim that the law enforcement authorities must immediately perform the function that the President does not perform and deal with such presumptuous cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u3	Dear Ukrainian people, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as Putin has today pushed past and present regions into the Ukrainian Parliament in order to approve the so-called disgraceful special status for Donbas, and so today, the Opposition Block, unfortunately with the BP party today, is raping local self-government in the city of Mikolayev. Because today they want to destroy, remove Alexander Sinkiewich from his post, a free mayor of a free city who was chosen by the majority for the first time, perhaps many years. And today the same coalition that destroyed the judiciary has opened up an incredible opportunity to cover up crimes, and now they want to destroy self-government in Ukraine. We want you to know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u4	So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And I want to. Has the opposition block been mentioned? There was, yes. One minute, a replica, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Let me put it this way: "Remember the Horn Curve." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u6	So let's move on to the agenda. I want to remind you that yesterday we started a review of the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (number 4685). We've gone through most of the rights, but there's about 50 left. And I invite the head of the Committee on Information and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich to the rostrum to continue his work on the rights. Please be prepared for discussion by the right-wing authors. I want to remind you, we stopped at line 447 yesterday, and so we're continuing to discuss the bill. 449. Don't insist. There's, uh, 449, Musak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we had a rather fruitful discussion yesterday and quite a fruitful discussion of this bill. I'd like to explain again what this is about. Now communication or relations between the states and Ukrainian citizens are taking place virtually in paper form, this law gives the possibility that via mobile phones. If anyone wants to get either services, or wants to get the right, he can do it, it can be implemented literally within six months of the adoption of the law, provided we're going to move on to the Swedish experience of what's called Mobile ID. This is a bill on how to improve and ask people's relations and the state, citizens and states, citizens and businesses, business and business, and other things that bring us closer to the digital economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Alexander wants to comment on the committee's position. Please microphone to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MP Alexius Musak! This bill is very important, it's very professionally prepared. Once again, I want to thank all right-wing authors, all who worked in this group. And the debate that is currently taking place in Parliament is aimed at further improving this bill, because it is basically very nice. With regard to this amendment. Why did our committee reject this amendment? Because the legal status and authorization of a witness centre, as a subject of electronic trust services, should be governed by this, not by another law. I mean, if we go back to our debate yesterday about chaos, chaos is usually the top of the line, but the laws should be clearly stated, it's clear that there's no double interpretation, don't give God, in the courts, or anywhere else, if there's any problems. That's why I'm asking you not to support this, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u10	Thank you. Let's vote for this amendment, define the hall, and then move on to the law. Please, colleagues, identify yourself to support the amendment of 449 People's Deputies, Alexia Musaka, please. [[10:21:05]] For-96 Your amendment is not supported. 69 votes. The next amendment was rejected by 450, as well as by the national MP Musaka. I'm asking you to turn on his microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, as part of the preparation for this law, have held more, the order of ten round tables, several committee meetings, and this law has been extremely well worked out. At the same time, I would like to say that this law, first of all, on the integration or integration of the Ukrainian economy into European digital space, is aimed at this. This position was recently defined by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, in his letter to the Supreme Council. Ukrainian Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman also supports this story. The leadership of the Supreme Council, Mr. Parubai, Mrs. Heratchenko and Mrs. Siroid, and also confident that they will support the desire to integrate into the European digital market. Please support this amendment of mine, it's actually about detailing some of the points, namely electronic documents and electronic documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u12	I ask you to comment on the committee's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, this bill is fundamental to starting a digital economy in Ukraine. And it's very important that he regulates the new sphere, just like electronic trust services. But once again, I want to say that there was a lot of discussion, a lot of round tables, and very much we took down. I want to remind you that this bill, in fact, must be an integration into European legislation, so we must clearly comply with the European Union directives. So once again, I want the relationship in the area of electronic document processing and the use of electronic documents to be regulated by the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Documents and to be subject to appropriate changes in relation to the adoption of this law. Therefore, I find the acceptance of this amendment to be of no use. Please don't support me, the committee didn't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u14	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to make my decision with amendment number 450 of the Mushak People's Deputy. Our colleague Alexi is asking her to support her. Vote, please. [[10:23:42]] For-80 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Next amendment 541 of Danchenk People's Deputy. It is counted, but his colleague, Roman Semenich, demands words for this amendment. Please, Mr. Semenach's microphone, 451 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u15	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! I want to address everyone in the session room so that we can consolidate and support this bill. It's not an exaggeration of the revolutionary bill, because it's creating a new model for providing electronic digital signature services in Ukraine. It introduces new technologies such as BankID, Mobile ID, solves the issue of cross-border recognition of digital signatures for Ukrainian citizens of the business, in fact, greatly facilitates business for Ukrainian citizens in the European Union. Without exaggeration, this law can be called an electronic car no longer for Ukraine. This is the direct path of Ukraine's integration into digital European society. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u16	Thank you. Mr. Semimenach does not insist that we place this amendment on confirmation, he has allowed himself a replica. Colleagues, in about 10 minutes, we're about to have a vote because we have 10 amendments left. And I ask you to quietly return the deputies to the hall, or you can quickly return with us to determine what ten amendments are left. And then the amendment of the 452 People's Deputy Opanasenka. Do you take the floor, Mr. Opanasenko? Mr. Opanasenko's microphone, 452 repairs, please. Don't insist. I'm sorry, I'm sick of seeing your sector. 455. Next amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. 455th National Deputy Bondar. Bondar doesn't insist. Olu, you're coming with amendment 186 and we're leaving now 455. We will not go back to the amendments that have long been made. I'm sorry, of course, but then we'll never consider this bill. 457 revisions. It's an amendment to the Mushak People's Deputy. I'm asking him to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, sometimes we adopt laws that are essentially revolutionary there, but at the same time, people don't fully understand what it does. Let me give you a simple example of what that would do to an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. First of all, he can sign service contracts or receive utilities through his smartphone. Secondly, for example, if a Ukrainian student wants to go abroad, so he won't have to send documents by mail or DHL He can also testify that these documents are also made by his mobile phone, or by computer, or by tablet. Besides, it's business. In order for Ukrainian companies to participate in tenders abroad, they now have to send their documents in paper form. This law actually allows Ukrainian companies to participate in foreign tenders simply and simply confirm their digital and electronic signatures. So I'm asking you to back him up, and I'm doing 457 to support him as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u18	Thank you so much for explaining. Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee. Dear colleagues who are just entering the session room. We're not looking at ratification right now, we're looking at a bill on ratification. Read the agenda, it's about electronic trust services, not cybersecurity, the bill we're looking at, and we're going after the amendments we were working on yesterday. Please, Mr. Danchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u19	It is very important that in the new digital services that after the adoption of this bill, I very much hope that all the national MPs will vote it, these trust services will be really trusting, really authentic and work absolutely faithfully. Because something false, some information distorted, it undermines trust in such services. So it's very important that control is very serious. Therefore, I would like to say that, with regard to this amendment, the State Office for Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine sets up rather than meets the requirements for security and protection of information when providing and using electronic trust services. I mean, once again, she's setting it up, and everyone else on a trust basis has to do it. Thank you. So please, I find this amendment to be inappropriate, please don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor. So this is Amendment 457 of Alexia Musaka to the Law on Electronic Trust Services. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[10:28:57]] For-79 Mr. Alexia, unfortunately, had 79 votes. 458 amendment of the Mushak People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u21	Look, colleagues, I really think this bill should support the entire Supreme Council, including the National Security Committee headed by Mr. Pashinsky, and this committee is currently also working on the law on the reintegration of Donbas. And I think they're voting too, so maybe something caused this, well, that's why my activity and position are triggered. 458 amendments, which concern the implementation of State policy in electronic documents. And I'm offering to support her with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u22	Thank you. Please identify the room after amendment number 458 of the National MP Mushka. Now. [[10:30:10]] For-74. The 74 national deputies, unfortunately, did not support your amendment. Next amendment to Musak, 462th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, thank you for voting and supporting my amendments. Be assured that along with your colleagues, the team was presented. I was given more than a hundred rods, which, I'm not afraid of, thanks to the position, including the committee from a good document that brought the Cabinet of Ministers, made it revolutionary. Most of the rights, it's actually counted and most of the important rights are counted. But at the same time, I'd like to talk about 462 revisions that say that in paragraph 14 of paragraph 5 of section "Towards and transitional positions" the words "their separate registration points" should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u24	I'm asking you to give the floor to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u25	Indeed, after much work has been done on this bill, we have changed it considerably, improved it during the first and second readings. Regarding this amendment, I want to say that the content of a separate registration point is a separate structural unit or branch of a qualified provider of electronic trust services. The separate registration point shall meet all requirements for a qualified provider, supplier, provider of electronic trust services for the premises, qualified personnel of a comprehensive information protection system and others. And once again, innovation doesn't mean that everything is allowed and everyone is allowed. Innovations are innovations that are heavily controlled by the authenticity of information and services transmitted. So it's very important to create that this is really a trust service. Trustworthy service can be a trusting service when it is faithful and does not have distorted information when it works for trust between a citizen and a state. Thank you. That's why the committee isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, we are voting for amendment 462 to the law. The bill on electronic trust services. I'd like to make a statement. This is Musak's repair. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the hall. We have a very busy agenda today, and literally in a few minutes we have to vote in favour of this bill. Please. [[10:32:43]] Z-62 Next amendment to 460. Bondar. Don't insist. 461. Chekita. Don't insist. 463rd. Bondar. Don't insist. 464. Chekita. Don't insist. 465th. Alexeyev. Don't insist. Colleagues, we have two or three amendments left. The 467th Amendment, Semimenach, is only taken into account editorially. I see that Simeoniah insists that it be more widely counted. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of Simeonach. Please. Let's move on. It's only edited. 469, Muschak. Correction counted as editorial. He insists on a wider vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u27	Honorary colleagues, under this bill, 477 amendments were tabled in total and the committee certainly worked well. I'm addressing everyone again that after a while we're going to have a vote on this very important, I think, the most revolutionary, technical bill that the Council has voted on this year. I think it's important to support it. And my 469 amendment, which was taken into account editorially, sounds like this. In paragraph 8 of section "The End and Transitional Positions", replace the words and figures "July 1, 2017" with the words "January 1, 2018." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u28	The chairman of the committee would like to comment on your amendment. Please, amendment number 469, which has been taken into account partially, editorially. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u29	The question is, as we have already said, everything should be clearly prescribed. And the position of the committee, we stand for the fact that when it comes to providing electronic trust services, it's important to preserve the concept of trust service. And that's trust. So everything should be very clear, precise, and technically protected. When we say that electronic data with an electronic digital signature, which is confirmed by the use of an enhanced open key certificate, is determined after the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Service Trusts by electronic data and created by a qualified electronic signature, but not later than two years from the date of entry into force. Two years from the day the law came into force. This balances the positions of all sides, the old business that exists at the time of the adoption of this law, and the new one that can develop. Please don't support this because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u30	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in five minutes. We had two adjustments left. I ask you very much, and, first of all, the Head of the Supreme Council is asking you to return to the session room. We are now voting for amendment 469, which the editorial committee has taken into account, but Musak, our colleague, is asking her to vote on this amendment in full. Please identify yourself, Your Honor. Colleagues, please, let's go back to the session room. We have a five-minute vote. Important bill, we've been working for two days. By the rules, by procedure. [[10:36:21]] Z-71 Unfortunately, Mr. Alexia, you're not going through the correction. And there were two amendments to our colleague Musak. 473 revisions. Please, 473 amendments. Colleagues, back to the session room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, in fact, I would like to thank you for the great fruitful work and voting in the hall yesterday and today. We went through the procedure clearly, it's important, because we're still doing the law on trust services. This time. And the second. Once again I would like to say that this law brings Ukraine closer to the digital age, to the digital economy, creates new jobs and essentially how many things that have already been implemented in the Swedish, Scandinavian countries can be made available to Ukrainians in six months. Business is ready for this. In fact, the Supreme Council was left to do its work and to make legislative provision. Along with the committee, together with the great team of experts and lawyers, we've worked out this position, so I ask him to back it up again, and it's also about the Transitional Positions. And because if this bill were to be adopted in the 16th year, it would be there by the 17th year, by the 1st of January of the 17th year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u32	Thank you. This is about amendment 473. And I ask you to comment on the position of the committee head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u33	Amendment 473. Before commenting on this amendment, I very much ask the people's deputies to come to the hall, because very little time is left before the vote, and very important law that will open the digital page of Ukraine. This way. We understand that this bill has actually been in force for a year in the Supreme Council and should have entered into force earlier, but I want to say that it also takes time for all interested parties, even for citizens to learn to use such services. So the committee stands in the position that everything should be clear, in time and here it is necessary to hurry, but it is necessary to hurry slowly. So we still insist on a longer term, so we ask you not to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u34	Colleagues, therefore, did not consider Alexi Musak’s amendment. Our distinguished colleague, who has made every effort to work out this bill and improve it, Alexy Musak, is very much asking for our support for amendment 473. I'm asking you to vote for her right now. Please identify yourself. Dear colleagues, we are determined. And we're left with the last amendment, which means two minutes of the author's comment and the head of the committee. [[10:39:31]] For-83 83 votes. No correction supported. Colleagues, we ask everyone to return to the hall, two minutes to an important vote. 476 revisions. Partially counted. This is Alexia Musaka's repair. And please, Mr. Musak, you insist on a full vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u35	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you very much to all who have worked on this bill. Once again, the adoption of this bill will allow us to make extremely simple, secure and quality communications between a citizen and a state, between a citizen and a business, between business, among others, they will avoid the need to copy or flip these tons of papers and will be able to do how the whole world is in electronic form. The 476 amendment that's taken into account editorially, actually, it's made up of, there, on three pages, this is the last amendment that's taken into account editorially, there, 477, it's taken into account, it's an amendment to a committee that's completely accounted for. In principle, maybe I don't insist. Well, thank you all again, let's vote and let's give Ukraine a digital economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u36	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, do you? It's important. So, colleagues, in two minutes, the vote will take place. I am very much asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and all the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of people in the hall, is one of the fundamental laws. I ask you not to leave the hall, but, rather, to call everyone in the hall to us. And I'm giving the final word to the committee head, literally one minute or two, as necessary, and we're going to the vote. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the working group! All those who participated in the drafting of this bill! Thank you very much to Mr. Alexia Musak, my faction colleague, Roman Semensi, for preparing a very beautiful, powerful bill, Alona Shkrum, who has been taking part in this bill from Fatherland. I also want to say, before the vote, that I should read the technical amendments to the bill that Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel insisted on. Under the transcript of "In Part Two of Article 7 of the Bill, replace the words "with a special authority authorized by the central executive authority for the organization of special communications and the protection of information" with the words "within the limits of its competence according to this law." In the second part of article 8 of the bill, replace the words “in conjunction with the principal body in the system of central executive bodies that provides for the formation and implementation of State policy in the field of electronic trust services” with the words “in the limits of its competence under this law”. Dear National Deputies! Please support the digital market, please support those people who have worked very hard on this bill. Alona Skrum, Alexi Musak, the entire group, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, Natzbank. Thank you for your support from the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine. And once again, this is going to be a very important moment, a very important moment. We're starting today, we're starting a real digital economy in Ukraine, it's new jobs, it's new expenditures, it's the future. We are now really becoming part of the European community, part of the European Union. I'm asking you to support the new Ukraine, I'm asking you to support the digital future, digital technologies and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u38	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Have you finished? So let's go to the vote, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, very responsible voting, and I'm asking you to stop talking and get back to work. So I put to the vote the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services No. 4685 on the proposal of a committee in a second reading and in general with the rights that the head of the committee Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich has written under the transcript, with technical and legal work. So, colleagues, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, every vote, vote, please. [[10:45:00]] For 240 The law is passed. Welcome to both the authors, and welcome to the committee. Congratulations, Mr. Alexander, this is a great victory. But I have one request, colleagues, the committee head asks him to hold short consultations for the next cybersecurity issue. At the same time, we didn't consider two other ratifications yesterday, that's very short questions, but it's very important. I'd like to ask you to consider yesterday's questions now. No objections in the hall? It'll be very short, colleagues. So we're moving on to ratification. So we're moving on to ratification, we promised yesterday that we would look at them today. And the first is the draft Law on the Ratification of Protocols Nos. 15 and No. 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (No. 0159). And I invite you to a report by the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, as well as the head of the Committee's subcommittee on foreign affairs. Mrs. Irina, please go to the rostrum. I ask the hall to support the review of the abbreviated procedure 0159. Please vote, please support. Let's vote it short. [[10:46:50]] For 171 Decision taken. And please report to Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! For your consideration, the President's draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of Protocols Nos. 15 and No. 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is proposed. The aim of the 15th and 16th protocols is to reduce the total number of complaints submitted by citizens of the Convention to the European Court of Human Rights, to improve the effectiveness of the Court and to raise human rights standards at national level. For the purpose of achieving the stated objective, Protocol 15 proposes to include in the preamble to the Convention of Reinforcement. and references to the principles of subsidiarity and the doctrines of the limits of freedom of reason. In accordance with these principles, the parties to this Convention are obliged to bear the primary responsibility for ensuring the rights and freedoms of the citizen. Furthermore, Protocol 15 provides for the implementation of the following measures by amending the Convention: the exclusion of provisions that give parties the right to ensure against the transfer of a case to the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, the reduction of the terms of reference to the European Court of Justice from six to four months after the final national decision, the imposition of an age limit of 65 years for candidates to serve as judges of the ECHR. Protocol 16, proposes that the higher courts of the participating States be given the right to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights for an advisory opinion on the interpretation or application of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Convention or the Protocols thereto. Such conclusions of the European Court of Human Rights are not expected to be binding, but they will be of a purely advisory advisory nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u40	I'm asking for 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, these are our obligations that we signed a few years ago. Please support this law of the President as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u42	Thank you, Reverend Irina Stepanovna. Under our Rules, the draft Law on the Ratification of Protocols Nos. 15 and No. 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Petuhov, also had to be reported. If he shows up soon in the session room, we will join him in the discussion. And now I'm going to ask the factions to sign up for this bill. However, I would like to point out, fellow Members, that Protocols Nos. 15 and No. 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms were signed by Ukraine on 20 June 2014. It is important to ratify them, because in September 2017 it was exactly 20 years old from the date of entry into force of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And this is indeed an opportunity for us to reaffirm Ukraine’s commitment to international commitment and our commitment to the cause of human rights. Moreover, next week a large parliamentary delegation is working at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for the first time there will also be the President of Ukraine in several years. Taking into account these insinuations that some of our neighbours are trying to launch in the Council of Europe today, yes, for example, our language legislation, we are now, by voting on ratifications for these conventions, underlining our commitment to the protection of fundamental human rights, including the right to education. Mrs. Irina, we're asking you to take a seat in the workplace. There's no question in the Rules for you right now. And I'm asking the factions of everyone to sign up for discussion. Yes, Your Honor, please, Mr. Barna of the Peter Dust Block, please, your statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u43	I give the word to Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, as head of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I ask you very much to support this bill, because the ratification of the 15-16 protocols will show that Ukraine is making commitments to the Council of Europe. And given that there are now a number of forces that want to represent Ukraine in the Council of Europe as a destructive force, and there are certain movements that are being made quite actively in this direction, I think we need to confirm that Ukraine is a constructive state that protects freedoms that protects the values that are enshrined in the Statute of the Council of Europe. And this vote is going to be a very clear example of that. I am very much asking everyone in the hall to support the ratification of the 15-16 protocols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, let's move on, please. And the next one now, I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Mr. Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party. I'm sorry, Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party instead of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u46	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will certainly support the ratification of this convention. Moreover, we urge the entire Parliamentary Hall to unanimously support this ratification. But at the same time, in the context of this convention, I would like to ask the High Council of Justice: How long will it be for the prosecution of those who have passed judgments or decisions that have been annulled by the European Court of Human Rights? To what extent do these people, who have suffered damage to the State budget, receive huge wages and continue to administer justice? The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška insists that these judges should be released, and the costs and damages to Ukraine should be compensated. Nothing to feed on mantiacs that violate legislation is a moment. The second moment is extremely important: Ukraine, the Ukrainian delegation to Paris, should clearly defend the language standard in the Education Act. Every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian parliamentarian has to remember: one language, one nation, one Motherland is Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the next word, please, Sergey Vlasenko of Fatherland, gives him the word of Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, of course, the Fatherland faction supports the ratification of the 15 and 16 protocols to the European Convention on Human Rights of Fundamental Freedoms. But let's be honest, this certainly has nothing to do with the 20th anniversary of the convention, or with any of the mythical commitments that the reporter has come up with here. There is no obligation to ratify, but we must ratify because these are progressive standards that improve the work of the European Court of Human Rights. I realize that this ratification has been specially brought to Paris to make sure that Dusty is there to tell. Because he won't be able to answer questions about his corruption, that he's paying taxes on the Russian budget, and at the same time he's demanding that European businessmen do sanctions and get damages, I understand that, on the one hand. On the other hand, I don't understand how we're going to implement the 16th protocol after you've stressed the codes here. How will this Supreme Court, which has now created the Dusty for itself, under the help of its people, how will it address the European Court of Human Rights for clarification? How does he apply these explanations, again to the agreement of the active authorities? Once again, we're condescending these methods, I mean, good work -- ratification 15, 16 of the protocol, we're suspending our internal mechanisms of functioning of a completely dependent, completely controlled judicial system. This mentioned the Higher Council of Justice, which is actually a separate subject. It's a body totally dependent on Dusty, which today completely discredits the idea of change, of a qualitative change in the judiciary, leaving completely disadvantaged people, completely corrupt people, completely dependent people in the judicial system. And once again, the Supreme Court contest is absolutely a principle thing. A competition that was conducted after a completely incorrect, unclear one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u49	30 seconds, please. I'm the only one asking you to ratify the code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u50	I would like to emphasize again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u51	Sorry about the protocol ratification. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u52	Once again, the Supreme Court competition, which will address requests for the 16th Protocol, has been conducted in an entirely dependent manner. And I'm surprised that this is where the representative of the President reported that his husband was suffering from those people who went to this Supreme Court. This is totally wrong and unacceptable. And the Fatherland faction will support the ratification of the 16th and 15th protocols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u53	Colleagues, please tell us if they are willing to join other factions in the discussion. Yeah, I'm seeing factions now. factions all joined the discussion. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Lucenko has been mentioned, and she wants to take the floor from the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] And also the head of the profile. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout. I got you. Sergei, we've got all day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mrs. Lucenko. Mrs. Lucenka, I'm sorry. Now I give the floor to the head of the profiling committee in relation to. which we have dealt with in matters of justice, Mr. Knazevitch. Please, two minutes. Because it was about harmonising Ukrainian legislation with the ratification of these protocols. I would also like to point out that, in the absence of Mr. Petuhov's Deputy Justice, Mrs. Irina was introducing a bill. Oh, there it is. Great. So we'll give him our word. I beg you, Mr. Knazevitch, to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u54	Thank you very much, Irina Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, the point is that our committee is a professional committee to provide legislative security, including the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Ukrainian legislation and, accordingly, the rules of the convention that you mentioned. True, it is 1952, so now, frankly, we are just ahead of one extremely positive stage in the future implementations of this convention through special protocols as of 2013. That's what these protocols are all about. The fifteenth protocol is very simple. It reduces the age for applicants to serve as judges of the European Court of Human Rights and creates additional qualifications for them. I think it's right, it's okay. And we certainly need to confirm that. The sixteenth protocol is somewhat more complex, as it is possible for a higher court in Ukraine - the Supreme Court - to apply to the European Court of Human Rights under international human rights obligations to provide advisory opinions on the relevant category of cases. The problem is that once we adopt the procedural codes, if these protocols are implemented, there will be some kind of legislative failure. We will not have a legal mechanism in Ukrainian legislation in how to do this. With this in mind, in our committee, we are launching a working group that has to make complex legislative changes in order to properly implement them when these protocols are ratified. Therefore, protocols need to be ratified. But this is just the beginning of their work. We need to go much further and really make the most of the Ukrainian legislation in line with the Council of Europe standards that we have undertaken since 1995 to implement. Unfortunately, it has been more than 20 years, but we still have this legislative gap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u55	Thank you for your clarification. Thank you for explaining that a special group will be formed to improve legislation and regulations. Dear colleagues, Ms. Lucenko presented a bill in the absence of a deputy minister of justice. But she has yet to say the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, from which she would be a co-reporter. So, one more minute, two minutes, Mr. Vice Minister of Justice. Then Mrs. Irina. And let's go to the vote. Thank you very much. You can leave the room, please. Turn on Mr. Petuchov’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Indeed, these two protocols are part of the reform of the institutional European Court of Human Rights. And what's important is, unlike other protocols, they're not going to be valid for ratification by all Member States. 15 The Protocol has already been ratified by almost all, with 8 states left. Apparently, they've been signed long enough, but they haven't come into force yet. Those positions they predict are all aimed at reducing the burden on the court, speeding up its work with the absence of thousands of cases that have not been dealt with for many years. Another important position envisaged in the 15th Protocol is that now the review of the case from a separate chamber to a large chamber can take place without the consent of the State, which means that the most important matters will be dealt with more competently without the ability of States to block the process. This is a clear benefit, and so is the possibility of reaching an advisory conclusion for the highest judicial authorities in each state, because this will help to resolve a particular case without potentially violating European convention rules. We believe that it is in the interests of Ukraine that these protocols become valid for all Member States. This will make the work of the court more effective, and it will help the Supreme Court, which is being established in Ukraine, to draw a professional conclusion on the complex cases that will be before it. Please support the ratification of these two protocols. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u57	Thank you for your clarification. Irina Lucenko is from the Foreign Affairs Committee. Please, from the profile committee, she was to report it from the committee, but she was saving the situation while our deputy minister was away. Mrs. Irina, please. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on October 3, 2017, discussed a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of Protocols 15 and 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify Protocols 15 and 16 to the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The purpose of the bill is to ratify protocols 15 and 16 to the convention, which in turn will demonstrate Ukraine's adherence to the ideas and objectives of the Convention, respect for and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe, and will confirm Ukraine's intention to participate actively in the reform of the European Court of Justice with a view to enhancing its effectiveness. According to the explanatory note signed by Justice Minister Paul Petrenka, the implementation of the provisions of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Aid will not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion, citing a number of comments on the need to implement certain provisions of the above-mentioned international treaties into Ukrainian procedural legislation, supports the need for ratification. In view of this, legislative proposals for Ukrainian procedural legislation will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 October 2017, taking into account the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice and other legislative acts adopted on 3 October 2017. This bill will authorize the powers and consequences of bringing the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u60	on the provision of advisory opinions on fundamental issues. Taking this into account, please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify Protocols 15 and 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Mr. Head, please give me 30 seconds to reply to Sergey Vlasenko's remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u61	Well, let the reporter say so. Please, Irina Lucenko, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, Sir Sergey Vlasenko! Actually, it's because I'm the defender of Lucenka Yuri, who suffered, that I'm pleased to present these two protocols and ask you to press the green button personally. At a time when we showed in the Ukrainian Court that the European Court of Human Rights and its decision is part of our legislation and it should be taken into account that it was 18 articles and political persecution, which is why I ask you personally, in criticism, to press the green button. And I'm informing you that we already have.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. So, please come into the hall, take jobs. Please, not yet. So, colleagues, the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Please finish, Mrs. Irina. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, as we voted in favour of amendments to the codes, we have three options: a smaller, larger and more extensive change that we are proposing to this working group, which is already being broadcast by our colleague, Ruslan Knazević, and we are ready to join this working group. And, Mr. Sergio, I also ask you to join the working group after amending the codes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u65	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. It's a ratification, and I'm sure we're going to have a union of the hall, and it's important now to take jobs, to go into the hall, please, colleagues, to come in and take jobs. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of Protocols Nos. 15 and No. 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (No. 0159), on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. So, please support me, please vote in general. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[11:08:36]] For 265 The law is passed. Welcome to the authors. The next law. The next draft of the Ratification Act (0156) is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on the renewal of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Cooperation in Science and Technology. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:09:30.]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hopco Hanna. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u66	Dear Ukrainians, good afternoon! I would like to ask you to support the Committee's decision on foreign matters and ratify the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government on the renewal of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government on Cooperation in Science and Technology. The draft law has been drafted to restore the basic agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States on cooperation in science and technology since 4 December 2006, which will provide a legal basis for the continuation of bilateral cooperation in the science and technology sphere, and will contribute to the expansion of Ukraine's participation in international scientific and technical cooperation and the development of Ukraine's scientific and research capabilities. The Committee recommends the adoption and ratification of this draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. I would also like to say that this covenant will strengthen our bilateral relationship with the United States. And I would also like to celebrate and thank the United States Congress, as well as President Trump for the extremely strong Sanctum package, which includes the energy sphere, particularly the blockade of North Stream-2, and, for us, we also hope that the United States of America will develop a mutually beneficial cooperation in the area of security and defence. We will continue to have the opportunity to develop joint investment and to see the support of the United States on those international sites that are the UN and NATO, helping Ukraine in all our foreign political priorities. So please ratify. And I also wanted to say, use this rostrum, thank the Canadian Parliament for finally adopting the so-called act of Magnitude, and this is a big step to protect human rights and against those who violate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Dear colleagues, I have just received a text message from the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Council of Europe, the representative of our Dmitr Kuleba, thanking you for ratifying the relevant protocols. And now I'm handing over the word for the First Minister's report. First Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Volodymyr Kovtunz, to present the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Notes between the Government of Ukraine and the United States of America. Mr. Kovtunec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u68	Dear lady, head! Dear National Deputies! The agreement, which was in effect from 2006 until 2014, ceased its operation in 2014, starting in 2015 with the U.S. government and the U.S. government making a new agreement on the extension of the 2006 Agreement for a new term. This agreement is extremely important to Ukrainian scientists because it greatly simplifies mutual exchange procedures for professionals. It makes it easier to import important scientific and technological equipment into Ukraine. It should also be noted that the two annexes to this Agreement provide reliable mechanisms for the protection of intellectual property rights and mechanisms for the protection of national security interests in cases where scientific developments, scientific and technical developments relate to matters of national security and defence. So the government is asking for support and ratification of this Agreement, which will become effective from the moment the American side gets the appropriate reports of the validity of all ratification procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor. We've heard reports, and I'm asking the factions to sign up for a discussion on the ratification of this agreement. Is there no need to discuss? You don't? Vote? Yes. The Radical Party wants to add its voice to the discussion. Dear colleagues, please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Sadly, education, science, and culture rarely come into this room. They usually share money, share authority, and share authority. At this time, the NCREKP member will be extended to form tariffs and to own energy for the President’s agreement. Now they're going to adopt a special status extension for Donbas, a law that's been in force for two years. The occupation has not disappeared, but we are told, let us adopt the law, and sovereignty will be restored. Sovereignty over Donbas will be restored under one condition: when Ukraine is strong, when the army is strong, when the economy is strong. Education, science is the key to the development of the country. That's why we're asking the government to reinstate the budget next year for the financing of vocational and technical education institutions. How can we develop an economy when there is no State policy to prepare labour? Today, when Ukrainian miners go to neighboring Poland, where they pay $2,000, and in our coal mine they pay $17,000. When it's impossible to get in, a locksmith, a mechanic, mostly people work their retirement age. Regrettably, the government did not consider our proposal that the term of training in PTU should be included in the employment period that grants the right to receive a pension. State policy to stimulate employment is to train young people. Who goes to PTU, learns? They're mostly orphans, children from low-income families. Not everyone can be a teacher, a doctor, an economist, or a lawyer. Someone needs bricks to be laid, bricked, built a country. But the authorities are destroying the system of vocational and technical education with their policies and are actually taking away the country of the future. We demand the attention of our people, our country. Ukrainians have a job and a decent salary!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, as chairman, I must remind you that we are now considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement, not on the PTU Treaty within us, but on the exchange of notes between the governments of Ukraine and the United States. I thank you all for your commission, but I ask you to follow the rules and to speak on the matter that we are discussing. I'd like to invite you to the floor, please, Mr. Snotlout, this is the Peter Dust Block. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Gregory Splinter Block of Peter Dusty. I want to say what the deal is. The law. The bill on an agreement between the Ukrainian and American governments is extremely important today. Not so often, America and the government will offer us their new technologies, their help. Therefore, it must be used in an orderly manner and a treaty to be maintained. Because it's very important today that young scientists, postgraduates can exchange between countries, study their new technologies, study their educational levels and help equip laboratories, because we already know a lot. But look at our university labs: they're equipped with very noticeable equipment, and this is the deal that allows us to raise to a higher level and knowledge, and practical skills, and especially research work in higher education institutions, as well as young scientists and postgraduates. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u73	Thank you for your position. Please welcome Alexander Kugel, who will present a position on the ratification of the Fatherland faction. And I see that both the Opposition Block and Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin will then join the discussion in the same way. Please, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u74	Thank you very much. The Fatherland faction will support the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the United States in the field of science, which is very important. Because we can say that we've been working with Americans for a year in the space sector. But I would like, in addition to ratification, that the Ukrainian government, Ukrainian statesmen and Ukrainian parliaments, through the budget, will personally support our Ukrainian science, so that it is worthy to be a partner, not a younger brother, in the area of scientific development. I can tell you that I've had meetings with our scientists at the Academy of Sciences that go to China and sell the works that they've done for the state budget, but I'm sorry, no one's going back to Ukraine, it's becoming like private scientific developments. I think there's a lot of questions. And what I'm saying is that I'm 100% supportive that the country will have neither science nor the future if it doesn't have any vocational training. I'm paying attention to all the deputies. I addressed myself in the region where I am curator, Dnipropetrov region, and took data on the financing of vocational education by the end of this year -- amazing figures. I'm talking to the Ministry, up to 58 percent of the world's professionally provided, that is, the children of the autumn will freeze, take responsibility and fund the trade union, as voted in the 300-vote room, and the President vetoed it. And we will vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u75	Thank you for your position. Please, Dobrenkov, the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u76	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Now we're looking at a bill that's both technical and technical, and it's really very important for the country -- that's scientific and technical cooperation with a foreign country -- that's actually the exchange of basic scientific knowledge. But on the one hand, there are coalition representatives talking about the need to maintain scientific and technical cooperation with the United States, it's not a panacea, the United States, unlike us, is very careful about keeping their secrets, commercial secrets, technological secrets. Because it's a guarantee of leadership in the world. Unlike us. What do we do instead? And we're doing an educational reform that's actually going to give birth to very low-skilled specialists. We're actually destroying the missile industry, the aviation sector -- that's what we're destroying. And what we're talking about is that this cooperation is going to save us. Rescue is our hands, it's our business. We should not move what happened to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u77	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr. Volodymyr Litwin. But this is going to be a closing statement, and so I want to inform both the heads of factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council that we need to invite the deputies to the Hall, and in two minutes there will be a vote. Mr. Vladimir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Clearly, we need to ratify this agreement. But I think it's necessary to ask a question in another plane, because we have to figure it out first. The Supreme Council passed the Education Act. In the Education Act at the request of MPs. I emphasize that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been set up to pay three minimum salaries. At the same time, when the law was signed in the Final Positions, it was the norm: raise wages by 2023 and exit to four subsistence minimums. That's why I think it's necessary to say that this is a forgery and I ask you to consider this as an address to the Attorney General's Office, the NABU, so that they can come to terms with this. The decision of the Supreme Council cannot be reviewed by anyone, especially if the Chief Legal Authority has determined what would have been necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u80	consider this question, including 131 articles and bring about. the appropriateness. This is a preposterous falsification of Ukraine’s law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u81	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'll wait 30 seconds, please come into the hall. I would also like to report that we will now, after this ratification, consider a very important 100-year decree, holding parliamentary hearings up to the 100th anniversary of the First Criminal Court. So I ask everyone to be disciplined in the hall so that we can also support this issue and so that we can look at it effectively. So let's go to the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on the renewal of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Cooperation in Science and Technology (number 0156) on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. We're voting 0156 as a whole. Careful! Every voice matters. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:24:55]] For 246 Decision taken. The law is passed. And, colleagues, and now determination. A draft decree to hold a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court. It's a very important question, I'm sure it'll unite the hall. And I ask you first to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[11:25:38]] For a hundred and And I invite you to a report by a member of the Committee on the Rights of National Minorities and National Relations of Chubarov Refata. Please, Mr. Rephat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u82	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In December 2017, it is 100 years old since the first Criminal Court. The date is one of the most determined in the history of Crimea and Crimean Tatars. According to the work of the first Criminal Court, the Crimean People's Republic was declared, a government was formed, a new republic was approved by the Constitution and state symbols were approved. This is an extremely important event in the history of Ukraine that we should keep in mind. The measure will contribute to the consolidation of the historical consciousness of the Ukrainian people and to the preservation of the national memory for the future. It will be most fitting when such a solemn event is celebrated in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Based on the discussion of such an initiative, members of the committee proposed a draft Decision on the holding of the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court on December 6, 2017, at 3 p.m. in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Undoubtedly, the celebration of the High Council on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Crimscotatarian people's invitation to scientists, politicians, representatives of the Ukrainian and foreign diplomatic corps, representatives of the Ukrainian Crimean Tatar diaspora, will also be a powerful signal to the people of the temporarily occupied Crimea on the irreversibility of the depopulation of Crimea and the restoration of Ukraine's sovereignty over the peninsula. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Refate. Colleagues, we don't have a co-rapporteur on this bill, by decree, more loyally, I apologize, by decree. And I'm asking the factions to sign up for a discussion. There's a need. Need to talk, colleagues? There is no need to discuss. Colleagues, I have one technical simple question. We will then move on to the draft Order for Amendments to the Supreme Council Order on Commemoration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2017. I'm asking you to get ready. I ask everyone to return to the session room so that we now have the appropriate votes of all those deputies who support the holding of the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court. I ask you to return to the session room, and in 30 seconds there will be a vote. Wait a minute, okay. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room and take your seats with all the deputies who, I am sure, support the holding of a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine devoted to the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court. And we would like to thank one of the leaders of the Crimean Tatar people and Mustafa Jemiliev and Rephat Chubarov for this very important decision that they have made and are now offering to support. It is very important for us to keep the order of the Crimea, the question of the Crimea on a day-to-day basis and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and on all international and political sites. I'd like to ask my colleagues to take a seat in the session room, and we'll now proceed to the vote. Colleagues, we're very busy today, I'm asking you to come back to work. We put to the vote a draft decree to hold a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the first Criminal Court. Please support this motion for a ruling, we vote. We're voting on our colleagues, please. [[11:30:51]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of the order of the day's work of the Supreme Council, the organization of our work. Unfortunately, 220 votes. We'll be right back and we'll put him to the vote without a return. I'm just asking everyone to take up jobs and, Mr. Andrew, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u84	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm sure this question has the general support of the Hall and it's only about holding parliamentary hearings, and it's our respect and respect for Crimean Tatars. And so I ask, colleagues, to approach the vote in a disciplined manner. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting first on the proposal to go back to the draft Order for a 100th anniversary ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, colleagues, can we vote? We shouldn't go back, we can vote without a return. And I'm putting draft Decree 7141 on the ground and in general. Please vote and please support, vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We vote, every vote. [[11:32:29]] For 240 It's been decided. And, colleagues, we have the final ruling in our block, this is the draft Order for Amendments to the Ukraine Supreme Council Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees in 2017. Princely Nicholas emphasized the Conciliation Council, and we agreed that we could consider it quickly. And I'm asking you first to support the review of the reduced procedure, 6728 on a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:33:11]] For-198
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u85	Please speak to the head of the committee, please. 198 votes. It's a short-term procedure. Mr. Mikolo, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on 12 July 2017, Protocol No. 59, discussed the issue of the introduction to the Supreme Council of the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees in 2017. The draft decree on the most important events in the social and political life of Ukraine and the jubilee of eminent persons, which should be marked at the national level in 2017, complements a number of Jubilees, creates the appropriate legal basis for the organization of their marking. The project included proposals made by people’s deputies, public organizations, institutions. These are the following suggestions. As for historical events, Jubilee, institutions: 400 years since the first written mention of the city of Slavuta; 150 years since the founding of the Botanical Garden of the Odessa National University of Mečnikow; 100 years since the founding of the Union of Ukraine; 100 years since the founding of the Kharkiv National University of Art of Kotlarevski; 25 years since Ukraine’s participation in United Nations Peace Forces operations. Furthermore, on September 16, 70 years of age since the birth of Valery Marchenk, a lawyer, a political prisoner of the Soviet regime, a literary scholar, and a translator. On November 14, 90 years after the birth of Vasil Makuha, a fighter against the Communist totalitarian system of colonial status, who carried out an act of self - incineration in Khristec in Kiev. December 21st, 100 years from the birth of Vasil Czverkunov, film scientist, director of the film studio Duženko. 80 years since the mass shootings of Ukrainian intelligence at the Sandarmoch festivities. It's the day that the entire flower of Ukrainian intelligence was actually killed, actually in one day. The proposals correspond to the 25-year criterion for historical events and the jubilee of the organization, the 10-year criterion for prominent people according to the President's decree. Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, have made decisions in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the order of legislative initiative to be taken up by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u87	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u88	The draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees in 2017 recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. Also at the request of Ukraine’s National Deputies, Hanna Hopko and Boris Tarasjuka ask the Committee to complete the draft Decision with the following proposal. Section I of the appendix to the Supreme Council Order on the Determining of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2017 should be supplemented by a new paragraph in chronological order: "100 years from the date of the creation of the Secretary-General of International Affairs of the Ukrainian People's Republic on 22.12.1919". With such additions, the committee requests that the draft Decree be adopted by registration number 6228 on the basis and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor. According to the Rules, we have no co-reporters to the draft decree. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Mr. Mikolo, you can go to work and we can go now. The place, more faithfully, excuse me, to the workplace. And we're signing up for a draft ruling. Please, from the People's Front, the people's MP of the River.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u90	Our faction supports, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u91	It's very concise, it's clear and it's beautiful. Thank you. I'm happy to give the Radical Party a word. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u92	Igor Mosiyczuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Of course, our faction will support this decision. An important decision, especially in the part of the marking of the shootings of Ukrainian intelligence in the hostile Sandarms. Unfortunately, now the Ukrainian delegation is unable to attend this ceremony because it is located in the territory of the Russian Federation. In turn, I personally and our faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, insist that next plenary week Parliament consider the 100th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian surgeon Alexander Shalimov, which will take place in January next year. It's very important. Because we have to demonstrate to Ukrainian society, Ukrainian medicine, Ukrainian surgeons the respect and respect of the person who made such a huge contribution, whose name is one of the largest institutes of surgery and transplantology named Alexander Shalimov. Please take our request into account and put it to a vote for the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u93	Thank you for your position. Dear colleagues, the last speaker is from Mr. Barna's Peter Dusty Block. Please, Mr. Barney, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u94	Praise Jesus Christ! He who does not know the past will never have a future that does not honor his heroes will never become a nation. And ours. Our duty is to honor all those who have given their lives for independence throughout the time of the existence of Ukrainian statehood. In addition, I would like to draw attention to another major event that took place 27 years ago in Ukraine -- the student hunger at the Mayan of the Yellow Revolution, and now Majdan of Independence, the student hunger that has turned into a protest by a young Ukrainian youth against the totalitarian regime that has grown into student hunger, into a "student revolution" on the granite. And it was the youth of Ukraine that was the impetus to the rise of the independence of our state, and it was an example for the next revolutions -- the Orange Revolution, as well as the Mayan Revolution -- the Dignity Revolution. So, honourable deputies, we vote and we support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u95	So we're moving on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall, and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Ready to vote? So I'm voting on the draft Amendment Order in addition to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Commemoration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2017. Don't leave the hall, colleagues, come in. Number 6728 is a request to be accepted as a whole. Please vote. Please support me. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:42:03]] For 246 It's been decided. Hello! And, indeed, colleagues, it is the final decision. We have such an Inter-Parliamentary Union and it is important for Ukraine that we show our position in the boycott of this session, which will take place in St. Petersburg. Both the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs ask him to consider it quickly. Colleagues, I think the whole room is backing up. I give the word to Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the really next week, the Russian Federation and the Deputies of the State, who are trying to make every effort to get out of these political sanctions, are initiating, imagine in St. Petersburg the 137th meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, which, imagine, will be dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Yellow Revolution -- the revolution that brought blood and death to Ukraine. And so our colleagues from two committees, this is the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Integration, have worked out a bill, an appeal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the member states of the Inter-Parliamentary Union on boycott initiated by the Russian Federation and the Democratic Republic of Russia, the deputies of the State of Russia, this meeting. And we need to take it very quickly today because you realize that this meeting is happening next week. This bill. determination, this address is registered under number 7169. There's a positive conclusion from our colleagues in profile committees: foreign affairs, European integration. And I would now like to invite the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who will report to us. This is a short, concise but very timely reference, registered under Decree 7169. Only first do we vote on the shortened procedure. We ask very much for your support. [[11:44:24]] For 210 Anna Gopko would like to have a word with you. And by the way, I would like to thank all my colleagues from all the factions that are part of the delegation of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, who have done a titanic work to explain to our European partners the inadmissibility of participating in this action, which is trying to achieve the 100th anniversary of the revolution by the Russian Federation. Mrs. Hanna, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is truly very cynical that by the 100th anniversary of the revolution, Russia is trying to bring together representatives of various parliaments in St. Petersburg, members of the delegation of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, in order to strengthen their positions. And that's why we're going out. Today, the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the member states of the Inter-Parliamentary Union on the boycott initiated by Russian parliamentarians of the 137th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. And what I want to say right now is that the Supreme Council is convinced that Russian aggression, which is the fourth year. The Federation, which has been continuing military aggression against Ukraine for the fourth year, undermines Georgia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, the Republic of Moldova, by pursuing a systematic policy of destabilizing the internal political situation in Europe and interfering with the internal affairs of other countries, should not have the right to take international action under the auspices of international organizations, the statutory norms and principles of which it grossly violates. The Inter-Parliamentary Union is one of the oldest institutions in the world. And so this boycott is exactly what we call for, and we express our firm position that the Ukrainian delegation will not take part. And I would also like to thank all the members of our delegation of the Inter-Parliamentary Union for the fact that they, and the groups of friendships that have called on their colleagues to boycott the 137th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, and to thank, in particular, the parliamentarians of Georgia, Lithuania, who have been convinced that they have expressed a strong enough position and will not take part in the 137th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. So they're not going to St. Petersburg. And I think that this boycott once again calls on the international community not to support Russia and the hybrid aggressive actions of the Kremlin in relation to other states. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that among the authors of the decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the member states of the Inter-Parliamentary Union on the boycott initiated by the Russian parliamentarians 137 Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and representatives of all factions. This is also Mrs. Hopko's non-fractional, this is Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk of the Fatherland of the Honorable, this is Igor Gus of the Honorable People's Front, this is Svetlana Zaleschuk, Irina Lucenko, Vladimir Ariev of the Peter Prashenko Block, and this is Mr. Vuk of the Honourable Radical Party. In fact, it seems to us that this decree unites the hall, unites all factions. And we suggest you sign up for the discussion right now, please sign up for the discussion. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk is invited to the rostrum by the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u99	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party This address should demonstrate not only the position of the Ukrainian Parliament but the position of the Ukrainian nation in relation to the Bolshevik rebellion, the Bolshevik terror of those years of blood spilled by Bolsheviks in Ukraine and outside Ukraine. Of course, the October riot in Petersburg and its marking are demonstrating Putin's ideology, the imperial ideology, the Bolshevik ideology, the ideology that has killed and killed Ukrainians now, killed 17th year and killed to this day in the territory of occupied Donbas and Crimea, demonstrates the ideology of political persecution of Ukrainian political prisoners who are currently being held by Moscow in their territory. So this is an extremely important vote, an extremely important appeal that will demonstrate the world's position as a warring Ukraine in relation to the Bolsheviks of the past and the Bolsheviks of today. Not among the Moscow friends of Ukraine, and this is demonstrated by this marking that is planned in Petersburg. They're actually showing the gravity of the king's father and Lenin. This is unacceptable to Ukraine! Ukraine is above all else! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u100	Thank you for your comprehensive position. Please, from the Fatherland faction, Mrs. Olena Skrum. She'll come from the place. Please, Olena Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u101	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you for your word. My colleagues, first of all, I really want to say that the Inter-Parliamentary Union is the oldest inter-Parliamentary organization in the world. I had the honour of being a member of this delegation on the previous delegation. And I want to thank all the colleagues who then made an incredible effort to bring our position, including to all the groups, to all the nations of the world that are taking part in this great inter-parliamentary organization. But what I want to say is that our delegation had one position: we can't visit the Russian Federation, we can't participate in Petersburg in this totally incomprehensible meeting. We ask and urge other partners who support Ukraine and who understand what is currently going on in Ukraine, and what aggression has been going on here for the past four years, to block this meeting. We were then supported by Georgia and by delegations from other countries as well. However, I also want to point out that, colleagues, this is this delegation, unfortunately, which has not yet been formally formed and has no permanent and formal delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Union. And here I want to address, including Mr. Paris as Head of the Supreme Council, you are a member of this delegation. I'm asking you to give me a mandate to form a permanent delegation to strengthen our positions. Unfortunately, we had very few members of delegations the previous time and unfortunately we did not work systematically with this delegation. That's why we haven't been able to completely block the appointment of St. Petersburg for the next meeting of this delegation. I think we need to work systematically as we are now showing this in the hall, and we really have to unite all positions, there is no opposition, there is no coalition here, we work together and we have to work very hard to bring our positions to the countries of the African Union, to the countries of Latin America, to the countries of Asia, well with which, unfortunately, we did much less work than we needed. And here I am asking for your support and support at all for the leadership of the Supreme Council. Thank you. And that's what we're going to support, of course. Thank you, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, for carrying out the Titanic work on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u102	Likewise, thank you. Allow me a brief comment. The Presidium on the need for the immediate formation of a permanent delegation in the Inter-Parliamentary Union, which will be able to work systematically in this oldest Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. But it is very important to say that not Paris, as Head of the Supreme Council, forms a delegation. They have factions to submit their permanent representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs under the Rules has this delegation to approve. So we call on faction leaders to make such submissions immediately. And now we give the floor to Mr. Kishkar, who represents the position of the Peter Dusty Block. He's handing over Victoria the Bird. Mrs. Victoria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u103	Mrs. Victoria, I'm sorry. This is a closing statement. In two minutes, there will be a vote, and I ask everyone to come into the hall and take their seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Victoria Ptishnik, non-fractional national MP. I also want to urge all my colleagues to vote in favour of this extremely important appeal, you know, that the Inter-Parliamentary Union is the oldest organization that cares about democracy, which at its meetings constantly tells us that no one can be persecuted for any sign in any country of the world that condemns any aggressive behavior, any state. You know, the next meeting, unfortunately, the Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union will take place in the Russian city of St. Petersburg. I also had the privilege of participating in the previous delegation, along with Mr. Tarasyuk, with Alona Skrum, with Alexi Prashenko, where we would have four of us defend Ukrainian interests, where we would have worked against just many manipulative things that the Russian Federation tried to push into the resolution. Moreover, I want to tell you that, at the meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Union in Bangladesh, the Russian Federation used its very common propaganda actions, where they began to spread information that a manipulative resolution seemed to have been adopted by the General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union at a time when this resolution had not even been considered at the Assembly. Many countries then resented the spread of such unreliable information, in fact a falstart by the Russian Federation. That's why I want to thank all those countries that, at the previous meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, supported the position of Ukraine, which helped us to remove a bunch of manipulative things from the Inter-Parliamentary Union resolution and encourage all countries to refrain from visiting the next meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Union in St. Petersburg. And our parliamentarians, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u105	Thank you. We're done talking, colleagues, and we're moving to a vote, so please all take your seats. So I'm voting on a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the member states of the Inter-Parliamentary Union on boycott, initiated by the Russian parliamentarians of 137 Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union of St. Petersburg (number 7169). The Committee's conclusion is to support the draft decision. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[11:56:15.]] For 249 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you. I ask that we, the Ministry of Justice, for the Apparatus, assign our statement to all parliaments members of the Inter-Parliamentary Union to testify to the position of Ukraine. So, colleagues, we're done with cybersecurity, we'll be able to get to it. But before we go to cybersecurity, I ask now that we vote on the two issues that are in order of the day, just to get into the order of the day session. This is a coalition requirement for us today to vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, and after lunch we will consider. This will take two laws in one minute, one of them 7,163 and 7,163-1, is the draft law on the characteristics of state policy and the provision of state sovereignty to Ukraine in temporary-occupied areas in the Donetsk, Luhansk, the other 7,164 is the creation of necessary conditions for the peaceful settlement of the situation in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. There are alternatives, too, including an alternative. Tier two. 7163, 7163-1 and 7163-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u106	And 7164-1. So all that is. Colleagues, it's just getting into the agenda for the decision-making session. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. First, I put the inclusion in the agenda for decision 7163, 7163-1 and 7163-2. Please support the inclusion of the day session and the decision-making process. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:58:17]] For 213 Guys, me. Obviously not understood, this is the law that clearly calls Russia an aggressor. This is the law that gives us the prospect of our work and our activities with occupied territories, colleagues. It's a bill that was prepared in the PNB. I'm asking you, obviously you're not getting your bearings, and I'm asking you to mobilize and support yourself. And I'm once again putting to the vote the inclusion in the order of the session for adoption of decisions 7163, 7163-1 and 7163-2. I'm asking the Patriots to back me up, please vote. Do not leave the hall, colleagues, but come into the hall. Please vote, please support, this is a patriotic important bill. Please support me to vote. Please vote, please support me, colleagues! So we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we Please be supportive. [[11:59:21]] For 232 Decision taken. Next 7,164 and 7,164-1, right? 7164-1. Also putting the day session in order to make a decision, please vote. [[11:59:53]] For 253 Decision taken. And, colleagues, this way we can go to cybersecurity at 12:30. I ask the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich after a break at 12:30 a.m., we pass immediately, and we have until 2 p.m. I'm asking everyone, colleagues. So now it's 12 o'clock. I'm calling a break for 30 minutes, and at 12:30, we're going to continue our work with the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u107	So, colleagues, 12:30, and we can move on to the next issue of the agenda. The committee concluded the necessary consultations on the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine. You remember what a difficult discussion we had when he was looking at the second reading. We sent him to read again. The committee was able to do a very large, serious job in order to remove from the bill all the norms that were causing the discussion. And so we can go to the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine (number 2126a). I remind you, it's a second reading again. And I invite the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u108	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to thank the Speaker of Parliament, Vice Speaker of Parliament for supporting the Electronic Trust Act. I want to thank every MP, every author, every MP for supporting this bill. We discovered digital Ukraine today. Thank you all. As far as this bill is concerned. A bill on basic principles of cybersecurity in Ukraine proposes to determine the legal and organizational principles of state policy in the area of cybersecurity, its basic principles and the direction of security. In all, there were 193 proposals from 10 national deputies, including 20 proposals for re-reading. The proposed proposals were processed and prepared for a revised draft of the bill to be considered by the Supreme Council in a second reading. Most of the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority to the second reading are taken into account in the preparation of the draft in the second reading. 93 were counted, 39 were edited, 8 were partially counted, 53 were rejected. How important the issue of cybersecurity is, I think everyone understands now. We're fighting an enemy, with an aggressor, Russia, who. It's a hybrid war, one part of this war is cyberattacks. Today’s wars are no longer won by tanks. Enough cyber threats, enough not to be protected against cyberattacks both to the state and to the business, to the ordinary average person, and the state can be destroyed. In association with the US senators, with European parliamentarians, with the European Commission, with many European cybersecurity regulators, they all say of one thing: Ukraine is now the first and only country in the world that is taking part in a real cyberwave. Our cybervies are the first cyberarmy in the world to wage war with Russia as an aggressor. It is very important for us today to provide the legal framework for our special services, the bodies set out in the President's strategy on cyber-protection of the state, to give them legal powers to exercise the real cyber-protection of our state. The committee worked with many deputies, with our responsible authorities, government bodies, with European consultants, and prepared the bill for a second reading. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u109	Yes, give me a minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, today you and I have launched a digital future for Ukraine. But we have to. We should not forget that we need protection, protection from new threats, cyberattacks, cyberwaves. I'm asking you very much, just like the bill on electronic trust services, to gather together, to support this bill and to strengthen it, to greatly strengthen the security of our state. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. We're starting to move on to the repairs. Amendment No. 3 of the Bondar People's Deputy. Don't insist. Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputies of Gulyev. Don't insist. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Kiwalov. Don't insist. Amendment number 11, Walking. Don't insist. 13, Kiwalov. Don't insist. 14, Walking. Don't insist. 19, Walking. Don't insist. 20, Solvar. Don't insist. 23, Kiwalov. Don't insist. 29, Kiwalov. Don't insist. 31, Walking. Don't insist. 42, Solvar. Don't insist. 43, Kozir. Don't insist. 55, Bondar. Don't insist. 63, Mirni. Don't insist. 68, Kiwalov. Don't insist. 72, Bondar. Don't insist. 76, Semenha. Don't insist. 77, Lukyanchuk Don't insist. Salvar, '80s. Don't insist. 81st, Kozir. Don't insist. 86th, Bondar. Don't insist. 87th, Bondar. Don't insist. Peacekeeper, 91st, 92nd. Don't insist. 96th, Semenha. Don't insist. 97th, Bondar. Don't insist. 102nd, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 105th Semenha. She doesn't insist. 112, Semenha. Don't insist. 113th, I was walking. Don't insist. 116th, Solvar. Don't insist. 117th, Kozir. Don't insist. 126th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 128th, Lukyanchuk. Lukyanchuk! Don't insist. 130th, Solvar. Don't insist. You know how no one insists on amendment, I work unusually. Maybe someone did. The crumb goes, no one insists. Come on, somebody. You insist, hurrah! Lechenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we haven't gotten to her yet. I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, wait, I remembered, 159th, I was glad about that. Let's move on. 130th, Solvar. Don't insist. 131st, Bondar. Don't insist. 132nd, Kozir. Don't insist. 133rd, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. Let's move on. We're about to go to 159 and solemnly grant you the right to insist on this amendment. 154th, Bondar. Don't insist. 155th, Bondar. Don't insist. 158th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 159th. Lechchenko insists. Please, the microphone. Please, Levchenko, the microphone, I asked. Please. It's something with a system, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. In general, I would like to point out that after the draft, the bill is more positive than negative, it should be supported. But I'd like to point out this one. That's the moment I'd like to say right now. So the position of part one of article 9 is declarative, it's more of a strategy or concept, not a law as a regulatory act of a higher legal power, whose position is peremptory. So specifically, what the project emphasizes is, I quote, "the creation of a system of timely detection, prevention and neutralisation of cyberhazards, including the involvement of volunteer organizations." But it is unknown how, in which order the system is to be created, there is no responsibility for failure to fulfil the stated purpose. And this refers to other ways of state-private interaction in the area of cybersecurity. So I propose to add one literal sentence that the plan and order of state-private interaction in the area of cybersecurity define the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to be a specific legal definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u113	I see. Please comment from the committee head. This amendment was rejected by the committee, please explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Lewchenko, I support the ideology of what you're talking about, but I want to say that the committee has already considered the amendments carefully. Why did we reject this particular amendment? Because article 9 of the bill already defines ways of public-private interaction that will allow any cybersecurity subject to take appropriate measures. Article 9. The bill narrows the issue of state-private interaction only to a limited circle of subjects subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We have just returned from the European Union, where we have considered all of this, and the issue of public-private partnership is central to the introduction of cybersecurity in every country. No European country — whether France or Germany — owns it. State funds cannot build a system, so the public-private partnership on this issue should be as extended as possible. But to do that, I want to say that you have to have the right law on private-state partnership. That's the problem. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u115	Finish up, please. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u116	So in order to build a normal cyber-protection system, cyber-security requires a state-private partnership, and our task as a parliament is to make an active bill in this area. We're going to need to focus on that. I would also like to ask the national MPs that we are going very quickly on this bill and invite your colleagues to the hall. It's a very fine bill, and it's important that there are people in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u117	A wise observation is great. I ask you very much, my fellow Members, to concentrate now, not to speak to the rostrums and the beds, but to return to the workplace and to determine for Amendment No. 159 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment rejected by the committee is very much asking to be identified. Vote. [[12:43:57]] For-63 63 MPs supported the amendment, which means it's off-limits. And we're moving on. Dear colleagues, we're going to have a vote very soon. The 169th amendment is partially taken into account, and the Semimenach National MP insists that he be given his word and that his amendment be heard in full. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u118	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Vice Speaker, I would like to urge all factions to assemble and uphold this important law. In fact, for the fourth year of war, we are very quick to respond to the cyber threat that is part of today’s hybrid war. One of the important novelties of this bill is the creation of a necessary coordination centre at the National Security and Defence Council. In fact, many are already being done by our colleagues. But it is vital to create the necessary conditions, to empower them to act in the right direction. The other one. The bill defines critical infrastructure, empowers the Cyber Threats Centre to identify incidents. The most important thing is to interact between the private and public sectors of government. So I'm asking you to support me. It is just a basic, fundamental law, but which will allow us to gain certain powers and oppose today’s aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u119	Your explanation is understandable. Colleagues, I now give the floor to explain the position of the committee on amendment 169 to the committee's head. I would like to point out that this is an amendment by Mr. Semenha, who was only partially taken into account by the editorial committee. But we're asking for an explanation of the committee here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u120	It's very important. I thank the National MP for working so hard. But what I want to say here. That monitoring of the activities of cybersecurity in the security and defence sectors of other state bodies is carried out by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Next. An independent audit of the activities of key national cybersecurity entities, as defined in part two of article 8 of this Law, on the effectiveness of the State’s cybersecurity system is carried out annually in accordance with international standards. Reports on the results of an independent audit as defined in Part Two of Article 8 of this Act on the effectiveness of the State's cybersecurity system in the previous year are submitted to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers in the 45-day period following the end of the calendar year. I mean, I think that the committee's drafting is more accurate, more detailed, all of these points that, again, it's not for such innovative and technological laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u121	Let me finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u122	does not allow double interpretation and double any term that can be used in one way or another. This is unacceptable for such bills. That's why I'm asking the room not to back up. So we've taken everything into account in an editorial way, I'm asking the room to support the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I ask you to make up your mind. Mr. Semimenah is proposing to extend his amendment, and the committee says that he considered it editorially. Vote, please. And I appeal to colleagues who have not yet returned to the session room, we have literally 10 amendments left, and we are moving to the voting room, so go back to the hall. Now, please, let's vote on Amendment 169. [[12:47:59]] Z-71 71 National MP. They didn't support the amendment. Next, 170th People's Deputy Lukyanchuk. He insists. Please use the microphone of the People’s Deputy Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to highlight this amendment in view of the fact that independent audit is carried out by ensuring that the monitoring and monitoring function is carried out by independent bodies. So I strongly urge that this amendment be taken into account in view of the fact that independent auditing is independent. And I'm putting emphasis on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u125	Thank you for a thorough explanation of your correction. We would ask the committee to explain immediately what the room was governed by when the amendment was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u126	This amendment was rejected by the committee because it had already been settled, partly by other articles and by the adoption of other rights. Again, the adoption of such an amendment introduces duplication of some notions. Moreover, the issue of international auditing in general is determined in European countries at the time of certification of different hearts or centers. The committee therefore considers the adoption of such an amendment to be of no use. First of all, it's partially counted at other points. Secondly, it's all prescribed, such audits at the moment of certification. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u127	Your explanation is understandable. Dear colleagues, let us identify the number 170 of Lukyanchuk’s national deputy, who insists that it be included in the law. At the same time, the committee did not support her. I'm asking you to identify yourself in the hall. Let us be sure that we have heard all the appropriate explanations. I'm asking the deputies to return to the hall because we're going to have a vote in 10 minutes. [[12:50:06]] For-73 73 votes. This amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The national deputy Lukyanchuk insists on the next 171 amendments. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, well, of course it's good that independent auditing is already included. I would like to take further account of the international standards of this audit, because we are going to the European community and we need to have the interaction of European legislation with ours. So I am very insistent on keeping international auditing standards in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u129	Thank you for your clarification. Indeed, this amendment applies to international auditing standards and has been rejected by the committee for some reason. We'd like to ask for an explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u130	The adoption of European standards is an overriding issue. And, of course, we can't ignore such questions, so we're going to reject them. In this bill, we introduced the concept of technological neutrality, or standard neutrality. So we also recognize European standards, but we also leave Ukrainian standards for our Ukrainian work, our Ukrainian institutions. Very good for this is the Radical Party "For Ukrainian!".. And that's how we support Ukrainian development, all Ukrainian. And that's why we have to give Ukrainian standards, Ukrainian institutions the opportunity to work in Ukraine. That's why we rejected this amendment because we introduced the concept of standard neutrality, automatically recognizing European standards, but also allowing us to work with Ukrainian standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u131	Explain to us how much this harmonizes with the Association Agreement and our commitments regarding, including the harmonization of standards relating to the implementation of the Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u132	According to Directive 910 of 2014 it is stated that either cross-border or electronic trust services or cybersecurity supported standards and were mutually supported by both the local state and the European state. So in terms of standard neutrality, we're dealing with this in accordance with the 910th directive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, we have heard a thorough explanation. Our esteemed colleague Lukianchuk insists that international auditing standards be established in the body of the law. The committee rejected the amendment. I request a vote on amendment 171 of the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputy. Please. [[12:53:16]] For-93 93 votes supported the amendment on international auditing standards. Let's move on. And the national deputy Lukianchuk insists on 172 amendments. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress your attention regarding the fact that we live in the rule of law, and that is why all legislative acts should be governed by the Basic Law of our country, which is the Constitution of Ukraine. So I very much ask you to bring this amendment into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, which is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in part of the powers of the Supreme Council Committees. So I ask you very much to support this question, because we have to provide the legal basis of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u135	Thank you for your clarification. Please speak to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u136	We consulted on this issue, it is really important, but the Legal Office of the Supreme Council has given us an explanation that a specific committee, the name of the committee responsible, cannot be specified in the law. Because in the future, either the names of the committee may be changed, or the subject of this committee will be referred to another committee. Thus, it is legally prescribed that a committee whose objects of knowledge will be the subject of cybersecurity. Thus, the legal position was taken into account, and the committee considered it correct, and took into account the legal authorities ’ proposals. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u137	The explanation is clear. I request that the room be determined by a vote on the right hand side of Number 172 of the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputy. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[12:55:16]] For-73 73 deputies supported her, colleagues, and that's not enough. We're moving on. We have three amendments left, and then we still have a word for the amendment, four amendments, and the national deputy Eutuszek. So literally in five minutes, we're going to have a vote. Once again, I ask my colleagues to return to the session room. Now 180 amendments are made by the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputy. Please, Lukyanchuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to place on confirmation amendment number 58, and I'd like to pay attention to it. In view of the fact that issues relating to state secrets and communications of technology systems that are designed to process information are already regulated by valid legislation. And this amendment, it's over-resolved to settle this issue that doesn't have to be prescribed in this law anymore. Please place 58 amendments for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u139	Okay. Colleagues, look, I announced that Mr. Lukianczuk would now discuss 180 of his amendments with us. But he announced that he was asking for the confirmation of 58 amendments that the committee had taken into account, is an amendment, and I'll tell you now, the authorship of the National Deputy Kozer. It was taken into account by the committee, and it concerns social networks, private electronic information resources of the network and other block platforms. I ask the head of the profiling committee to explain the substance of the amendment and to give the logic of the decision of the committee that supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u140	Look, we're having a hybrid war right now. And those social networks, we're not talking about blocking, there, about filtering, we're talking about what we need to protect, and one of the main directions of these attacks is social networks. It says here that the ability to protect, to make technical demands, that's a very correct amendment, you can't vote against it. So I'm asking you to back it up, back it up. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u141	There is an explanation of the head of the committee who believes that the deletion of this amendment will balance the bill. Commissioner Lukyanchuk, do you insist on asking for confirmation? A national MP, this is his right as a national deputy, insists that amendment 58 of the national deputy Kozera be made for confirmation. The committee's asking her to support, vote in favour. Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus, support the amendment of the national deputy Kozer now. According to the committee head, the removal of this amendment is balanced by the bill. Vote, please. Let's vote yes. Please, colleagues. We're voting the amendment for confirmation number 58. [[12:58:40]] For 158. But this amendment only raises 158 votes. I'm going to ask you, head of the committee to record this, and then give you a sense of what we're doing next with the bill. National MP Lukyanchuk, do you insist on amendment 180? Please, microphone, national deputy Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I ask you to complete the position, "The End of Positions" to complete with the following changes to the laws: the principles of internal and external politics, the foundations of Ukraine's national security and the fight against terrorism. Please complete the data on End Positions with these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u143	Thank you, Your Honor. Please make a brief comment to the head of the profile committee, and please return to the hall, we have two amendments left. Please, Mr. Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u144	I want to say that on the principles of internal and foreign policy, on the basis of national security in Ukraine and the fight against terrorism, I'm sorry, this is regulated entirely by others. Completely different laws, and you don't need one. One law relates to a large number of others. There are clear regulations in other acts, there are clear regulations in other laws. We're talking about cybersecurity right now. There are recommendations from the European Union that laws should be short, condensed and at least linked to other laws. So please do not support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u145	We are determined, please, by amendment 180, which has been explained both by the author of the amendment and by the committee. Please be determined by the correction of Lukyanchuk. Colleagues, please return to the hall, we have three more amendments, so two more are asked to be confirmed. [[13:00:42]] For-78 No votes. 181, Semenha. Don't insist. Yes, the national deputy Eutusek insists on amendment 184. This is the correction of Lukyanczuk, which is counted, but he asks. 188th. Now, I heard everything. First, ma'am. First, Mrs. Cervakov insists on confirming 186 amendments made by Lukyanczuk. The 186 amendments were taken into account by the committee, but Mrs. Cervakova would like to make a request for confirmation. Cervakovy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing journalists. This is an amendment that sets up a total dictatorship and actually denies access to citizens' information, to any information that is of social interest, information about life, human health, about danger, about environmental issues, etc. So if this amendment goes through, the Public Information Act will be able to "set a cross." This amendment was passed as a separate law, and our committee rejected it on May 6, 2015. The position of our committee is that, in fact, information about critical infrastructure objects cannot be generally available. But if. In order to protect this information, it is necessary to amend the State Secret Act, not the Information Act. By making these changes to the Information Law, this will lead to dictatorship. Please fail this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u147	Please comment. Now! The author’s comment, and then Lukianczuk’s amendment, and then the head of the profile committee. Please explain your correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment does not refer to the content of the information itself. It refers to the set of electronic data, symbols and signals, or technological information that is generated in the language of machines and designed to control, manage automated machines. So this doesn't directly apply to information filling. It refers to the code and language of programs and commands. So I ask you very much to support this amendment because it deals with the issue of the protection of critical infrastructure, namely registers, databases and so on. That's why I'm asking you so much, but you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've seen, you've Access to registers is not authorized as the information was broken, as data were submitted. I think in the background of all of this, we need to take this amendment into account and protect the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u149	We don't have the concept of replication when we talk about amendments. It was your right, Mrs. Cervakova, to make a statement about it. bet on confirmation. You bugged her. Then we listened to the author of the amendment. Now we're going to listen to the head of the profile committee. Please. And then the hall will be identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, there is no way that the committee or this bill applies to public information or information about content, content, newspapers, the Internet in any way. Cybersecurity protects technology. It's clearly written here: technological information. The technological information is that, like the Petya virus that your accounting programs have leaked, it's how our cloud was turned off. The technological information, sorry, provided in the dictionaries, is contained in this bill. By cleaning up technological information, what are we going to protect? What will we protect? There's no attitude, there's no relationship, it's clearly defined here. Well, there's no other way to say it. Content, cyberprotection can't protect content, it can't touch content, it's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we have heard the author’s explanation for the amendment of the committee’s head. They are asked to vote in favour of the amendment approved by the committee. Mrs. Cervakova is asking for confirmation. I'm asking you to identify yourself. Please. [[13:05:34]] For 121 Don't yell at anyone, please. 121 votes. Olu, don't yell, come on. I'm already silent that you came here this morning to submit this amendment to a completely different bill. 121st, 121st National MP. Your amendment is not supported, Mr. Lukianchuk. I'm asking you to consider this committee head. The last word, please, is now after amendment 188, it's partially taken into account, it's Danchenk's amendment. But the national deputy Eutuszek wants to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u152	But, Mr. Sergei, before I give you my word, colleagues, I would like to stress that this is the last amendment. In two minutes, the vote will take place, so that we don't have to mobilize everyone in the room, I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to report that in two minutes there will be a vote. I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Sergei. Turn on the microphone. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u153	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to draw the attention of the entire room and all those who are looking at us right now and hearing that this is a basic bill that aims to create a focal point to deal with these issues. I'm going to remind everyone, my fellow citizens, and the national MPs, how you and I couldn't make it through any three of them, five of them, ten of them even a day to submit data to the electronic declaration. I think it was an attack, a cyber attack on these sites. So we need to fight things like cyberattack. What's more, I'm also going to mention the M.E.Dos reporting system, which I'm so sure from Russia, people from Russian aggressors came in through our reporting system and brought a lot of destruction. I'll also say it's a second reading again, and for the first time we haven't been able to vote, because it's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u154	Do you insist on voting? On the receipt? No, you don't. Will you comment, Mr. Alexander? Please comment. And come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Eutuszek, for your professional comments, for your support, for your professional understanding of the subject and for those. In general, Fatherland has made very professional proposals that have been taken into account, and the committee supports this position. Those are flaws or misunderstandings. The misunderstandings were in the hall right now, and I think we'll work them out. That's why I'm asking all the people's deputies. We're in a hybrid war, all of these viruses, the disconnection of energy systems, the problems in telecommunication networks -- that's a very big problem for us. The issue of protection of critical infrastructure is the protection of the entire state. The European Parliament, the European Union, the representatives of the United States insist: protect your critical infrastructure first. This bill clearly prescribes powers that can be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u156	Please give him a minute. And we go into the hall, we take our seats. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u157	There's a clear idea of what critical infrastructure is, what's important. I want to give you a sense of the importance of critical infrastructure. For example, in Estonia and Finland, ice - covered rivers and lakes have been placed in critical infrastructures. So this is very important to us too. Each country pays the utmost attention to such bills. I very much ask the Hall to support today's good start on the path to digital Ukraine or protection, protection, cyberprotection of our nation. I am very grateful to all the deputies who, with criticism and support, offered their proposals. And I would like to support this bill, the impeccable bill for our state. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u158	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. We've been discussing this bill for a long time, and he's been waiting for a decision. Finally, we make a decision. So I ask everyone to vote responsibly and carefully. It's a matter of national security. The issue of cybersecurity in the information and hybrid war waged against us by the Russian Federation is one of the key and major issues of national security. So I ask everyone to mobilize and take part in the vote. So I put to the vote the draft Law on Basic Principles for Security of Ukraine (number 2126a) on the proposal of the Committee to adopt in a second reading and in general, with the exception of 58 articles, an amendment which was made by Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and with technical and legal remedies. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, 2126a in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, folks. [[13:11:52]] For 257 The law is passed. This is an important step by the Ukrainian Parliament. Welcome to both the committee and all the developer participants. So, colleagues, the law is passed. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. Next we have two decisions, which were highlighted in particular by the Committee on Urban Affairs and Housing and the PEC Committee. This is a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities (No. 7166). And I'm asking you to support the review of this motion by means of a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[13:13:00]] For 185 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Andriyev Dmitry Josephovich. Mr. Dmitri, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, we accept. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u159	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to draw attention to the critical situation and the situation that has arisen in the work of a national regulator that regulates energy and housing services. In accordance with the Rotation Act, in accordance with the President's decree of 26 November, the National Controller will in fact lose the ability to make decisions in accordance with its competence. I want to point out right away that it's not just setting tariffs, it's approving and conducting investment programs, repairs, paying wages, distribution of funds. All of this can lead to very dangerous consequences, especially in electricity. Therefore, honourable colleagues, to implement article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for National Regulatory in the Field of Energy and Utilities, and in accordance with the Presidential Decree, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 4 October 2017 considered the candidates for a competitive commission proposed by the parliamentary groups and factions. They were proposed: Gavriluk Olena Volodymyr (Deputy faction of Self-Help Association), Kucherenko Aleksij Yuriovich (Deputy faction of the political party "University of the Fatherland Union"), and Jastrubinsky Vasil Ivanovich (Deputy faction of the Block of Petra Prashenko). As a result of the discussion and the conduct of the rating vote, the candidates obtained the following number of votes: Gabrieluk – 1 vote, Kucherenko – 2, Jastrubinsky – 7. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a candidate for the post of competitive commission of Jastrubinski Vasil Ivanovich, who received the greatest support. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u160	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. Pantyhose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u161	Please pass the word to Deputy Belkovi. Belkova Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u162	Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u163	Thank you. Thank you very much. I really want to support my colleague Andreyevsky and point out that the situation today is a critical one, well, with the rules of implementation of the Energy Regulator Act. Already in November, today's composition will actually be ineffective, no decision can be made — whether it's licensees, whether it's the total price of electricity, wholesale prices, or utilities. So today, unfortunately, we are all too late. Sadly, all three branches of authority did not appoint representatives. The Council has a unique opportunity right now to correct its own mistake and to appoint those who will start a very important process, namely the rotation of the current composition of the NCRECR. Which today, this regulator, in fact, has lost confidence from the market, from all the steakholders who are waiting for very important decisions. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u165	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I wanted to remind my colleagues that this is the third time we have voted in favour of the appointment of members of the nominee commission from the Supreme Council, with two previous votes in favour of the same candidates. I personally asked all my colleagues and coalitions, and not from the coalition not to submit the same ones that we have already voted for and voted negatively in the Supreme Council. Thank you to other factions who have listened and have actually sent other candidates to be nominated to the Nominee Commission. And I think this was the right step, and today's candidates are much better than before. At least there is greater faith and hope that they will be able to work independently and more objectively. So I urge all the colleagues of the Supreme Council today to vote and give green light to the creation of the Nomination Commission and the subsequent selection of the members of the regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u166	Thank you. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich. Passes the word Láško Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I request your attention to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Basic Law of our State. Article 106, "List of President of Ukraine's Powers." There is no President's mandate to form a nomination commission, as defined in article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which will then elect members of the NCRECR. To our listeners, to our viewers, to all Ukrainians who pay space tariffs. So when your payments come in, they come in, and the next heating season comes in, space payments with space money, you should know who to "thank"- the National Commission for the regulation of the utility market, the formation of which the President is involved. I have a question for the President and for those who are moving his candidates into this room. Why do you violate the Constitution? Who gave you the right to trample on the Constitution and assume powers that the Constitution does not give you? Why does the President appoint the NCREKP? Why does the President appoint the Nazi Commission on securities? Why does the President exercise other powers that are not in the Constitution? Because the President wants to usurp power and that's why he's doing it. But in order to usurp power, he still wants to usurp money, because in the energy market, in the living market, 300 billion dollars. Why haven't the Obelhas been taken to Firthash and Lewochkin? Because they have a deal with the government, and this deal is paid for by the Ukrainians, each of their own pockets. I therefore demand that Parliament do not support candidates who will set space tariffs. I demand not to violate the Constitution of Ukraine or to promote the usurpation of power by President Dustenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u168	So, colleagues, this is a closing statement, and so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, and in two minutes we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction believes that the creation of a so-called independent professional regulator will not take place in the presence of, perhaps, professionals from the energy market and utilities. Because, first of all, the humane impotence of power is already proven by the fact that we cannot appoint the heads of the ministry who are now in charge, we cannot assign the House of Auditors, we cannot rotate the Central Electoral Commission, we cannot even appoint, more specifically, the President, ambassadors to the most responsible countries. That is, the humane impotence of power, it is doubtless, and the rotation of the NCRECR will also not be a pleasant exception. There are three institutions that are responsible for this rotation under the current law, this is President of Ukraine Peter Poshenko, Mr. Igor Nasalik's Energy Minister, also an ex-member of the Petra Prashenka Block, is the Supreme Council, where most of them are here from the Peter Prashenka Block. So why are we translating the half-yearly dysfunctional nature of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Regulation into the Supreme Council? There is one person on whom the professionality of the work of the NCREKP depends at all, this is the person who is now appointed by the current member of the NCRECR, Mr. Wolfe, who worked in the company ROSHEN, and who is also created by the President of Ukraine. So the question is, who is to blame for not having the political will to do, in fact, a professional, independent regulator? When it was necessary to appoint Attorney General Yuri Lucenk, this was done by a blitzkrieg, all the relevant laws were changed. Laws on education requirements, published in the government courier newspaper, and people assigned to the job fit. From the NCREPT for six months this issue has been blocked, leading to two months of operation of the regulator being blocked. They can make any decision that can't be overturned. So independent of the people who are here, we don't believe that the regulator is going to work transparently and independently. And we will not support any of the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u170	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, come into the hall. Please, let's take up jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for the National Commission for Energy and Utilities (number 7166). The Committee's conclusion: support the draft decision. Please support the draft decision, please support our committee. The committee only defines the candidates, and the Supreme Council only supports them. So 7166, please support the draft decree. Vote, colleagues, vote, please support. [[13:23:35]] For 252 Decision taken. And, colleagues, this is actually an identical 7-1-67, this is a draft Order appointing a Supreme Council representative, but it's from the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security (7167). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[13:24:12]] For 223 Decision adopted, 223. I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic complex. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u171	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens! First of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for the preceding vote because successful voting solves the very important problem that my colleagues have just discussed. If we move away from political sentiments and political speculation, I would like us to realize and understand that the days before the heating season, which promises to be very complex, given the large amount of debt that is on the energy market in Ukraine, the absence of an effective regulator is a half-step to the catastrophe of the entire energy system. The whole country knows that I am not a supporter of the NCRE. And I think that we need a qualified, objective, unengaged regulator, and only a positive vote on the candidates that we are putting forward today gives us the opportunity to get that chance. On behalf of the Fuel and Energy Committee, I would like to inform you that the political factions have submitted three nominations for consideration by our committee, which were considered yesterday: the candidate for the People's Front, Mrs. Golicova, a candidate from the bloc. Alexia Kucherenko, from the political party "The Fatherland" and from "The Self-Help" by Andrey Herus. During the discussion, Andrew Herus withdrew his candidacy in favour of Mrs. Golicova. As a result of the vote of 10 members of the committee, Svetlana Golicov's candidature in Parliament was supported, and one member of the committee abstained. I want to say that Svetlana Golikov is one of the most professional, top professionals in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u172	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u173	and energy security and tariff policy problems and the development of Ukrainian energy. I very much ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the decisions of the Fuel and Energy Committee and to support Svetlana Golicov's nomination as nominee for the nomination to the Competition Commission for the selection of professional members of the NCRE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, we have heard of the almost unanimous position of the committee on this issue. Is there a need to discuss? There is a need to discuss. We're on our way to the Rules. Please sign up: two in, two in. The faction insists. I can't help but give you the right to talk. Please, Egor Sobolev of Self-Help. Yegor Sobolev, are you speaking? Leo Podlisecki, please, microphone. Leo Podlisecki, microphone, switch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u175	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I would like to refer to the rapporteurs who made the previous decision and say that the actual usurpation of power in the NCREKP is today, when the NCREKP is headed by Mr. Wolf, who is appointed directly by the President, when the other members of the NCREKP, who are left there, are literally three other than the Wolf, and they are all appointed by the President. In fact, we have in our hands the creation of a commission that will try to approach the next members objectively and that will ensure institutional independence. Of course, there's not a lot of chance, but nevertheless, I believe that these candidates will be able to show at least some position in this body, a position on choice, really professional and ensure transparency of procedures and acceptance, and the choice, in fact, of the members of the NCREKP. My colleague also stated that the NCREKP would no longer be valid and would not work for two months. And I'll tell you that if we don't vote today and create this one, we don't delegate two people, they will. It's not gonna be two months, it's gonna be three months at least. So let's not delay the process, let's give it a chance, and hopefully, and I'm actually talking to the candidates and to Mrs. Golicov, as I know long ago that you don't want to let us down and really show us a job that we won't be ashamed of. Thank you and I'd like everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u176	Thank you. Please, Mr. Yevlakhov from the Peter Prashenko Block is handing over to her colleague Mrs. Belkovi. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u177	Thank you very much. I'll start by saying that yesterday, really, 10 members of our committee unanimously supported Mrs. Svetlana. Why? Because Mrs. Svetlana, unlike some deputies, has been attending almost every meeting of our committee for many, many years. I don't always agree with Mrs. Svetlana, but I'm always convinced that Mrs. Svetlana knows the softest and smallest details of the things she's talking about. She had experience working on this committee. She criticized today’s commission. She was giving advice to the deputies. I don't know how she'll take advantage of her knowledge, but I know exactly what she has. Now, about my respects, Mr. Oleg Lazko. Mr. Oleg, the usurpation of power occurs when different branches of authority give up their authority. To this day, the Supreme Council has been authorized to appoint its candidates, and we are promoting the same idea. We want to appoint those who are worthy to oppose those who are appointed either president or Kabmin. At the same time, I hope that this committee will show the importance and professionality of the approach to those who will become commissioners in the future. They will decide the fate of Ukrainians, all consumers in all regions. I very much ask you and your faction to reconsider their decision and to take it for the benefit of Ukrainian consumers. Powerlessness is not necessary. There is a need for determination and a clear responsibility on which to make these decisions. I personally trust Mrs. Svetlana and invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u178	Thank you for your comprehensive position. Colleagues, there will be a vote in five minutes. There are still three factions who want to speak. I'm asking you not to break up, but to go back to the hall. It's from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u179	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. My distinguished colleague from the BP tells us that the Supreme Council decides to elect the members of the NCREKP Nomination Commission. It's not the Supreme Council that makes the decision. You, gentlemen of your fellow MPs, as buttonpads, sanctify the oligarchic decisions and the conspiracy between oligarchs and authorities. And the results of the previous vote testify to that. 252 people voted, 30 of them from the Opole. Have you long seen Opoblak make the decisions the country needs? Without the voice of the Cloud, there would be no decision. That's the answer to the question, and why the authorities still haven't taken the gas distribution networks from Firthash and Ljovczyn. Because they have conspired, and now they will usurp the influence on the NCREKP. Because they raise up their tenants, five of whom are members of the Nomination Commission, three of them. President Poshenko has influence. Then President Poroshenko calls to his office, and he communicates remotely with Firtash in Vienna. They set tariffs, draw billions out of Ukrainian pockets, and put them in their pockets. Here's all the results you've had. What do you do here? You're robbing people. It's a conspiracy of power. It's a conspiracy of oligarchs. You're saying there can't be without the NCREKP? Maybe. And give local authorities authority authority authority authority over the formation of tariffs. That's decentralization. And let them be responsible for the sewers, for the tariffs, for the counters and everything else, and not for you in Kiev, in the presidential office, who set the tariffs, and for corruption, for the conspiracies of power, for the oligarchs of Firthash, Ljovcín and the companies should pay each Ukrainian in his own pocket. I demand that President Prashenko, Prime Minister Groysman, return to the state property of gas distribution networks! Stop robbing Ukrainians along with the oligarchs!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u180	Thank you for your emotional performance. Guys, we've got a whole day's work to do. Let's feel sorry for each other and our ears. And we're moving on, dear colleagues. People's Front, this is National Deputy Velitchovich. Very loud, very loud. Bigwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u181	Mikola Velitchovich, People's Front. Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u182	Michael Bondar. Please, microphone to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. You know, on the committee yesterday, really, going back to the candidates, Mrs. Svetlana said that it was a little bit of a surprise to her. Because it actually had to be arranged for her to take part in the competition. I know that Mrs. Svetlana will be a worthy candidate and all of her experience, everything will be directed to make this independent regulator really, then the members who will be elected are, indeed, independent. So I urge you, colleagues, to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, this is Mr. Ryabchin's last speaker from Fatherland. Mr. Ryabchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u185	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I fully agree with Mr. Dombrowski, the respectable head of the Energy Committee, that the energy situation with the heating season is catastrophic. And that's because the Naftogazu war is going on with the government. Because the government is signing a gas price increase order two years ago that still has to go up 20 percent, but it doesn't, because it's already promised. And because of this crazy corruption that's in this sector. And what I'm trying to say is, look to the distinguished colleagues of Jastrubinsky and Golicov. I hope that you will not give your professional name and career to these people who may want to use your honest name for any tools, and you will not take advantage of the temptations they may offer. And if you see that there's going to be a critical situation, you're going to do the same thing in the past as the members of NCRE Gerus and Koval, who went because they didn't want to conduct Grigorishin transformers, just like the three independent directors of Naftogazu from Great Britain who didn't want to be members of these tools, like thousands of young professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u186	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u187	Like the thousands of young professionals who came after Maidan to work for the benefit of the state, but who received not a decent salary and opportunity to implement themselves, but corrupt orders to enrich their leaders, who went and disbelieved now in the Ukrainian state. I hope that you will be honest and that your professional career will not come under attack, and you will be worthy of choosing this Supreme Council independently of who voted for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u188	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs and go into the hall. The heads of the factions, I ask you to invite the deputies to the hall. So we're moving on to making a decision. I put to the vote the draft Decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for the National Commission for Energy and Utilities (No.7167). Please support the committee's conclusion: support the draft decision. Please vote, please support the draft ruling. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:38:05]] For 265 It's been decided. Both our decisions were made. Mr. Dombrowski, Mr. Andryewski, as agreed on the Conciliation Council, we made both decisions. Colleagues, we now have a short bill, but it's very important. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (for the improvement of certain provisions) (4646-d). And I'd like to invite you. It's a second reading, it doesn't need a separate procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna. Let's just take a quick look at it. Right a little, I see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, in fact, the amendments aren't much, I am. Colleagues, please do not leave the hall because this is also one of the most important draft laws related to the implementation of EU directives and the improvement of our national legislation. Your attention is on the proposal for amendments to the Accounting and Financial Reporting Act in Ukraine. 58 amendments were made to the second reading by entities of the law - enforcement initiative. It's suggested to count 19, take into account partially - 6, take into account editorially - 1, reject - 32. We can go after the repairs, but we can basically do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u190	My colleagues, let me count it quickly. If there is, someone asks if they want to vote, you say. But he's discussed, he's all in agreement. And I ask you not to leave the hall, my friends. I'm asking you to come into the hall, not go out. So 4a. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 31st. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. Colleagues, other adjustments are taken into account. Other amendments are taken into account, and we may proceed to the vote. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I want to point out that this bill is long-awaited by a committee that is consistent with all factions, and during the discussion, all proposals were taken into account. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. We have concluded our discussion and are moving on to making a decision. So please invite the deputies into the hall. Yes! So they're all in agreement? Vote, colleagues, right? Let's put it on. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (to improve certain provisions) (number 4646-d) on the proposal of a second-reading committee and in general on technical and legal rights. Yes, Nina Petrovna? Vote, colleagues, support. Please vote and please support, colleagues, vote, please support 4646d in second reading and in general with technical law. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:41:48]] For 253 The law is passed. And this is the result of the hard work of Nina Jujanina's committee. Welcome to the committee. So, colleagues, thank you, the law is passed. And we're moving on to the next draft law of the day, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine (as regards the organization and the conduct of catering in Ukraine with the participation of the citizens of the aggressor country) (number 6682). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:42:43]] For-154 And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Gastronal Measures in Ukraine" (as regards the characteristics of the organization and the conduct of catering in Ukraine with the participation of the citizens of the aggressor country). The law passed by deputies from the factions of the People's Front, the BPP, the Radical Party and Self-Help were joined by government experts. And I thank Viachelav Anatolyovich Kirilenko, Vice Prime Minister, who is here, who has also joined in drafting this law. Today, we are faced with a situation where the hybrid war instrument of the Kremlin against Ukraine is, so-called, popular Russian cultural actors and performers, who in a public position, demonstrate their active support for Russia's policy of the Putin regime. The presence of such persons in the information and public space of Ukraine significantly increases the real threats to national security and the territorial integrity of the country, the creation and continuous improvement of the legal mechanism to counter Russian humanitarian aggression is a critical task for Ukraine in hybrid warfare. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal mechanism for protecting Ukraine's national security in the humanitarian sphere, including through the introduction of legal mechanisms in the gastronal activities, countering the anti-Ukrainian influences, similar to those that work for television and radio, film and publishing. Please vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u192	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. No, I'm sorry. I'd like to invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princess Nikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u193	Thank you. The committee at its meeting considered the bill. I would like to remind you once again that the bill foresees such innovations as the fact that, in the course of the gastronomic measures, no calls for the promotion of secession, communist or national socialist, totalitarian regimes and their symbols are allowed to take action to promote or promote the aggressor State and the authorities, a gastro-scientist action that is a party to the list of persons who pose a threat to national security is prohibited. A person who shares in a public talk is understood as a participant in a gastronomic event. In general, the bill is aimed at strengthening the humanitarian security of Ukraine and is a logical continuation of legislative steps to protect national information cultural space. The committee recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis, including the initiative of the authors. But now the authors themselves are proposing to accept it as a whole, and I think it's going to be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u194	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, please, from the Radical Party, say the word to the national deputy Lášk. Please. I'm sorry. The word to the national deputy, Andrew Lozov. I'm sorry, colleagues, we're already used to inviting Easy. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u196	More often, invite. Andrew Lozova, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear compatriots, we all see that at the time of our true war for independence, the 23rd war Moscow is waging against Ukraine, because without Ukraine, without Kiev, "Russian peace" is impossible, this concept. We see, on the one hand, how great Ukrainians, how our artists spend their time, pay attention, give up their fees and go to support our fighters on the front, our border guards, our volunteers. They're artists like Anastasia Adjective, like Zlata Ogniewicz, like Kozak System Ivan Lenho, like "Antitila" Taras Topola. Let's give our patriot musicians a round of applause. And those, excuse me, cultural prostitutes who renounce their Ukrainian roots, who go to Moscow, like Taječka Povalajka, like Annie Lorak, like Loboda and all that other stuff, go to their necks. If they switched Ukrainian affairs, Ukrainian nationalities, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian history to a fee from a chicken factory somewhere in Volgograd, they should stay there, not Ukrainians. And I urge you, your honor, to support this draft decision absolutely stately. And to report on the violent situation that exists today in the Ministry of Culture, which is simply destroyed by the actions of Deputy Minister of Culture Tamara Mazur, a non-professional person. Which is unknown in honor of what is appointed by the professional military manager of the Lavra Reserve, who is looting the funds allocated in the Babin Jar Memorial budget, which is trying to privatise our legendary cinemas of the name of Longevka and Ukricinochronic, which is unknown for what merit she was named "Deserved Lawyer of Ukraine." Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u197	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u198	Today, in times of war, if we want to preserve Ukraine, if we want to raise the patriots of the coming generation, let's support Ukrainian culture and drive away traitors, renegades and those who are just trying to make money, at the cost that we, the Ukrainian Parliament, spend on supporting Ukrainian culture. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have a word with you from the Peter Prashenko faction, National Deputy Demczak? Passes it to Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u200	Kishkaru, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u201	I can see it, I can see it. Excuse me. Please, Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u202	Paul Kishkar, "The People's Movement of Ukraine." I'm drawing all my colleagues' attention to this bill, and I urge you to return to the Parliamentary Hall in order to support both on the basis and in general. The one who tells a lot about the struggle for Ukraine and Ukraine has now had to demonstrate for himself, supporting this bill, that it is the same opinion and that it stands for these values. I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u203	Thank you. From the People's Front, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, the People's Front calls for the initiative of MPs from various factions, the State's initiative to support the position of the Committee on Culture. And in order not to delay time, we are voting on this bill because it is necessary to protect our cultural environment. I'd like to pay attention to those opponents who want to push other buttons, that they don't forbid them from speaking to the aggressor country, but just register with the HQ and get help that they don't belong to separatists. Thank you. We're all in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u205	Thank you. And, colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, and then we're going to move on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. And I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. And now I give the floor to Sobolje Sergy of the Fatherland faction. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, but this is a bill that forces us once again to return to the question of the dual morals of those who continue to trade with the aggressor country, those who have enterprises in the aggressor country that pay in the budget of the Russian Federation the costs that go further to arm the teeth of gang-forming and to kill our people. What public activists have done to stop the "blood trade" that has made billions of dollars is to prove that the public should influence it. For our faction, exactly the same crime is the same as those who actually allow themselves in war conditions to pretend that nothing has happened, those people who demand international sanctions that require not to accept the same "transitions" from the Russian estration in the countries of the European Union, the United States, but at the same time continue to trade with the aggressor country and earn their billions on the mountain and the blood of the people. That's why we point out that when such bills are introduced, in no way will those who did the blood business be forgotten, that this should still be investigated and brought into line with the Ukrainian legislation and the sanctions that we have imposed as a state and other countries that support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u207	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. But I look around the hall, it's very important to invite deputies into the hall, we may not be enough. I ask the heads of factions to forcely invite deputies to the hall now. We'll just be a minute. And now there is Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please, one minute, and please come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u208	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this is one of the bills that supports Ukraine's humanitarian security. We've already approved a series of similar laws here with you in the hall. This is also developed jointly by government officials and deputies. Recently, there have been many instances of Russian gastrolers performing in the occupied Crimea, illegally crossing the border of Ukraine. A few days later, they perform in Odessa, Nicholas, Herson, and elsewhere, and they earn money here. This is because gastro-medical organizers have no responsibility for those whom they invite from Russia. So the law provides for a new article, among other things, when the organizer of a concert, a festival or anything else in 30 days reports to the Security Service, asks for information that he cannot perform a concert without Russian performers and invites them. The question is being studied, and when the Security Service does not see the grounds for its refusal to accept this artist in Ukraine, such action takes place. So we're going to take down the question of when law enforcement has to catch a post-factum Russian performers here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u209	30 seconds, complete. And come on in, take your jobs. Please, Mr. Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u210	This is an important law, because it will allow not to bring music, concerts or festivals into line, it is a law on the hybrid war of Russia against Ukraine, it is small, it is changed to four articles and a new special article is introduced. I ask you all to vote in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m0.u211	Thank you. So let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. An extremely important bill, and it is important for us to mobilize fully into the hall. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastroline Measures in Ukraine (as regards the organisation and the conduct of catering in Ukraine with the participation of the citizens of the aggressor country) (number 6682) in the first reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support, all patriotic forces. [[13:56:02]] For 206 I'll do it again. I'll be back. Please, colleagues, please take your seats and come into the hall. I'm asking you to mobilize, I see, not everyone has been there, please. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. And I'd like you to invite me to call those who might be there for you. I ask all patriotic factions to mobilize as much as possible. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 6682. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support and vote. This is the protection of our space because of the ban on gastrolas, and so I ask everyone to vote responsibly. Check, check the gastropods from the aggressor country. So, are you ready? Everybody in place? We vote in favour of the return to draft Law 6682. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please. Each voice has a weight. [[13:57:36]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 6682 on the ground and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful! Vote. This is an important decision for Ukraine, for our safety. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:58:06]] For 225 I see they haven't made it. Please vote carefully. I see. I see I'm betting on the return. I'm betting on the return of 6682. Please vote. And carefully, every voice, every voice, please vote for the return. Can I have your back, please? Please vote. [[13:58:40]] For 228 We're back. And I'm putting the Bill 6682 on the ground as a whole. Colleagues, I ask you to vote responsibly. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. We vote, every vote. [[13:59:07]] For 232 The law is passed. Colleagues, pay attention! We could take the motion picture now. There's almost no right here. How do you feel or not? You don't feel it, do you? All right, colleagues. The time for the morning session is exhausted. Although, I think we could try and get through. We've had a very productive day. I want to remind you that after lunch we will move on to the laws that were included in the agenda of the day session. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And at 4:00 p.m., I invite everyone into the session room to continue our work. Thank you.
