ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for recess is over. Please come into the hall and take your seats, prepare for the registration in the evening session. Colleagues, please prepare to register in the evening session. And, colleagues, I have a message for you. Now there's the Physical Culture and Sports Act, which has only one amendment. If I put it on right now, it'll be wrong. And with your permission, I'll put it when the mobilization is greater. Although I know my colleagues will tell me it's not quite right. I'll tell you. There's a simple one. But I'm going to say that there's no author in the room, and that's why we can't look at it. And so I suggest we move immediately to draft Law 2126 — cybersecurity, there's a lot of rights that we can go through. But before that, we have to register for the evening session. Please take up your jobs. And please prepare for registration. I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[16:05:04]] 363 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues! I would like to emphasize to you once again what I have already stressed. The draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine (2126a) has introduced remedies that may pose a threat to ProZorro. Earlier on a political level, we agreed that these adjustments would not be supported by the hall, and only then would we adopt this law. So I ask you to be careful about discussing this bill so that we do not miss important corrections. I ask both the head of the committee and the factions to be careful when considering the rights. It's a deal. So we're going to draft the basic principles of Ukrainian cybersecurity (No. 2126). And I invite the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich to report. Please, Alexander Ivanovich. And let's move on to the information block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies of the Deputies! On September 20, 2016, a bill with registration number 2126 was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. A bill on basic principles of cybersecurity in Ukraine proposes to determine the legal and organizational principles of state policy in the area of cybersecurity, its basic principles and the direction of security. This bill sets out concepts such as "critical infrastructure" that state authorities are responsible for performing cybersecurity tasks. We know that there is a hybrid war going on in Ukraine. One of the elements of this war is cyberattacks, which in the last month alone have been massed several times. Three weeks ago, our committee met with a delegation of the National Security Committee of the United States, where congressmen said that our cybervies were now the only ones in the world who were really opposed to the Cybervies of the Russian Federation. Hence, attention to cybersecurity is mutual. The adoption of this bill on basic principles of cybersecurity in Ukraine is a necessary step to start building a real cybersecurity system in the country. This bill is in line with the strategy adopted and approved in Ukraine. By adopting this bill, we will open the way to resist aggression to protect our national interests, to involve private infrastructure in protection. Because all of us remember very well how there were attacks on the surrounding area, which are private. But these attacks have caused our citizens to suffer. So it's very important to concentrate now, to adopt this bill, it's been done professionally, and to accept it in a second reading. I want to stress that, by agreement between all the factions, the changes will now be discussed, and I want to draw your attention to the issues: 50, 51, 69, 81, 82, 92, 142, 143, which need not be supported by the vote. In the event that these rights are not supported, we vote in favour of this bill. Once again, I am addressing all the national MPs, and I ask you to concentrate, because this is a matter of national security for the state. And it's very important to show that we can stand up to the aggression of Russia and give it to us cybervies and authorized authorities for real.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u4	All the legal principles so that we can do all the cybersecurity of the state. And this bill, which is very important, we're all talking about cybersecurity, but there are also elements of cybercrime that are overwhelming in this situation. So I ask everyone to concentrate and support this bill in their second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u5	Please prepare for the discussion. I'm going to call those adjustments that are rejected. So, 4-a, I was walking. Don't insist. 7th, Kiwalov. Don't insist. Eight o'clock, walking. Don't insist. 10th, Kiwalov. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. 17th, Solvar. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. 27th, Walking. Don't insist. 31st, Kozir. Don't insist. 43rd. Solvar. Don't insist. 44th, Solvar. Don't insist. 50th, Bondar. 50th, Bondar. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! This amendment, I ask it to be confirmed, actually refers to those rights that the reporter called and actually refers to torpedoing the successful reform of public procurement through the ProZorro system. Why? The amendment contains a definition of what is considered to be an authorized electronic course, and the amendment deliberately introduces legal uncertainty into the legislation, since neither the amendment itself nor the text of the bill defines an authority that will be authorized by the authorization of electronic sites. Thus, if we adopt such an amendment, we can create the possibility of having electronic sites that have not been authorized in the Mine Economic Development and that will not be able to ensure that procurement procedures are conducted in accordance with the rules and principles set out in the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement. So we need to make this right, and I'm asking her not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u7	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u8	The committee supports the proposal of a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u9	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirming the amendment of the 50th National Deputy Bondar. This is one of the amendments that I mentioned before we went to the vote. So whoever supports the 50th amendment, please vote. [[16:12:32]] For-22. The decision is not made. 52nd, Kozir. 51st. For confirmation. So 51 amendments I'm betting on confirmation. Who supports the 51 amendment and its confirmation, please vote. [[16:13:08]] For-16 The decision is not made. 52nd, Kozir. Don't insist. 55th. Kozir. Don't insist. 60th. Quiet. Don't insist. 65th. Kiwalov. Don't insist. 69th. Semeneh 69, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, number 69 relies on electronic sites for additional information protection requirements, which do not take into account the technical features of today's electronic sites and which will not be easily implemented within the public procurement system. Thus, we believe that in this way this change can make it more difficult for the purchase process itself to become another administrative barrier and a new source of error in possible abuses. So I suggest you put her on the stand, and I ask you not to support the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u11	So I'm voting on Amendment 69. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:14:33]] For -14 The decision is not made. 73rd. Semenha. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, my right is to prevent a legal conflict between the law and article 14 of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act. What causes such a conflict? Part two of article 5 of the bill provides for the creation of a National Security and Defence Council working body for the National Cyber Security Coordination Centre and is determined by competence. At the same time, the Constitution does not give the authority to create such structures. I'd very much like you to support this amendment so that we don't interfere with the Supreme Council's existing legislation and create new centres for the PNDP, because today the PNDP can also create such centres in their legal mandates. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u13	Thank you. And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 73 people's deputies of Semimenah. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:15:49]] For-43 43. The decision is not made. 74th, Lukyanchuk or insists? Don't insist. 77th, Solvar. Don't insist. 78th, Kozir. Don't insist. 81st, please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u14	Edit 81 defines the electronic site as the subject of cybersecurity measures. As a result of this change, ProZorro’s sites are automatically absorbed by the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection in Ukraine. This service, according to its mandate, coordinates the activities of cybersecurity agents in relation to cybersecurity. This, in turn, will allow for the discretion to change the rules and requirements for the operation of electronic sites, which are part of electronic purchases, to determine the requirements for their work, the technology of access to information on public spending. Please place on confirmation and call on the session room not to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u15	Thank you. And I'm asking you to confirm Amendment 81, which supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:17:12]] For-23 23-yes. The decision is not made. 82nd Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, the bill gives the electronic rangers the right to decide for themselves whether or not a tender is needed. Attention, decide for yourself whether or not a tender is needed. While a valid Procurement Act allows the purchaser solely to set requirements for the type of security that the bidders have to meet their contractual obligations to purchase. This amendment proposes to settle this issue only through insurance contracts, i.e. an electronic course will be able to require the bidder to insure his liability under a contract of purchase if he wants to participate in the trade. Obviously, this change creates a living environment for non-artificial contracts of liability insurance for public procurement contracts, where end-users, actually at the expense of customers and bidders, will be insurance companies. Please place on confirmation, I urge the session room not to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u17	Thank you. I'm betting on vote 81.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u18	Two, two.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u19	I'll bet you the approval number 82. Anyone supporting Amendment 82, please vote. [[16:18:52]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 86th, Mirni. Don't insist. 87th. Don't insist. 91st Semenha, 91st. Don't insist. And the 92nd Semenach insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u20	Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u21	Ask for confirmation of 92 changes. And I'm betting on confirmation of 92. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:19:37]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 97th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 100th, Semenha. Don't insist. 105th. Don't insist. 106, it doesn't. 109th. Don't insist. 110th, Kozir. Don't insist. 120th. Quiet. Don't insist. 121st, Solvar. Don't insist. 122nd Semenha. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u22	The other one?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u23	122nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u24	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u25	You insist, you just don't know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u26	No, 122nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u27	No, it's okay with 122, right? Marked as questionable as I am. It's already been rejected, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u28	She's already here. She's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u29	All of it. Okay. 123rd, Kozir. Don't insist. 124th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 142nd. He insists. Please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u30	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Head, I would also like to place on confirmation the amendment number 142, 143 and 173. We're dealing with the fact that when the drafters of the bill wrote a good document, a legal and regulatory act that was actually called upon to fight cybercrime, because we see cyberattacks going on, including by electronic declaration, that it's not just that that's happening. And this amendment includes things that are completely incompatible with the life or perception of this bill, which is very normal. So I'm going to ask you to make these adjustments: 142, 143 and 173. I'm sorry, 173 for confirmation. And I call on them not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u31	Thank you. I'll do it now. Mikhailo Bondar. Please turn on the microphone. And, colleagues, I'm sorry, in a few minutes we're going to go to the last right. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. I ask the heads of factions to mobilize MPs. This is an important law, a matter of national security and defence. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And turn on the Bondar microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, these are the amendments that have just been named in the table that we were given: the Bondar family, and my initials, Mikhailo Leontijovich. So I want to say that I didn't make any of these amendments, and that I started calling, and it discredited me. I want to report that these amendments are not my own, but my colleague, who has the same family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u33	Thank you. Indeed, these are the revisions of Viktor Vasilovich, and I would like to point that out under the transcript. And now I'm betting on confirmation in stages. First, I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 142. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:23:07]] For -14 14-in. The decision is not made. 143rd. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:23:27]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. And amendment 173. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:23:47]] For-16 The decision is not made. Colleagues named Bondar Viktor Vasilovich. Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, many nonsense and filth have been told in the last few weeks about the rights to this legislation that I have introduced and given. It's about what we've been proposing that all government sites, databases and so forth be fully equipped with a comprehensive information protection system. This was put into effect by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on cybercrime, it was about fighting cybercrime, it was. Corrections have been made in connection with the vast number of cyberattacks that have affected many information resources, databases, and dozens of nations in the world today. If someone's pretending to want to shut down ProZorro or stop it, it's absolute nonsense, I can honestly say that. You could put a comma and write even "except for ProZorro" if there are so many risks. But all state databases have to be protected because they're property registers, they're registers of property rights, they're stockholder registers, they're real estate registers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u35	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u36	These are registers of real estate owned by humans. And we would suggest that the State Department of Special Liaison would support these amendments, and the committee would support all state resources to be protected. But if someone thinks that their corruption risks far outweigh the desire to protect state resources, let's, let's skip, let's move on, but in fact we're going to come back to that question someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u37	Thank you. And, colleagues, we're down to 147, Lewchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u38	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The position of part one of article 9 is declarative, which is more of a strategy or concept, rather than a law as a regulatory act of a higher legal power, whose position should be of an imperative nature. For example, the project proclaims, quote, "the creation of a system of timely detection, prevention and neutralization of cyberhazards, including the involvement of volunteer organizations." But you don't know how, which organs, where the system is to be set up; you don't have to assume any responsibility for failing to do the stated purpose. And that's true of other ways of public-private interaction in the area of cybersecurity, which is just regulated by part one of Article 9, state-private interaction in the area of cybersecurity. So I would like to add to this part of the article, add one small paragraph to the end: the plan and order of state-private interaction in the area of cybersecurity is defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In order for a specific requirement to adopt an appropriate normative instrument that would clearly regulate all of these issues, rather than simply being such a declaratory norm on anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u39	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u40	I propose to support this proposal by the national MP Lewchenk, because it is right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u41	Thank you. Thus, the committee head asks for the approval of the national deputy Lechchenk. Please vote, please support 147 revisions. Please vote. [[16:27:27]] For 106 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, there are three adjustments left. I strongly request that all deputies be invited to the hall. We'll move on to the decision-making process in a few minutes. 165th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 166th, Semenha. Don't insist. 171, Lukyanchuk Don't insist. And so, colleagues, we have concluded a discussion of the dual Law on Basic Principles of Cybersecurity in Ukraine. In a hybrid war against Ukraine, the issue of cybersecurity is one of the key, for on this front are some of the most violent and dangerous attacks on Ukraine. So I ask everyone to take a responsible vote, go into the hall, take jobs, and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, may we vote? Please take up jobs. I'll wait another ten seconds. Please, we're taking up jobs. All of them. Colleagues, I ask everyone to take a responsible approach to this vote. As Mr. Victor Bondar rightly pointed out, the issue of national security is issue number one for the Ukrainian State. And here we have to show our consolidated position. We got it. Copy that, Oksana. Got it, yeah. We got it. All the questionable amendments were not confirmed, colleagues. There is no danger. We worked very professionally on this issue. All we have to do now is vote in a consolidated manner. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, I urge and support and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Basic Principles for Security of Ukraine (No. 2126a) in second reading and in general with technical law. All questionable standards have been removed. It is now important to vote positively. We will support cybersecurity and cybersecurity in Ukraine, we will support Ukraine's national security! Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:31:29]] For 186 I'm surprised, colleagues. We'll wait for the deputies. We'll wait for the deputies. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please show by factions. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 56, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party Laska – 12, "Fathership" – 10, "Will of the People" – 2, "Party Rebirth" – 3. In fact, almost all but one factions supported the law. Maybe not all of them were. Again, all the amendments that led to the discussion were rejected during the discussion. We've come up with a completely compromised final version of the law. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues! As long as the MPs go in to make sure that all the questionable corrections are removed that apply to ProZorro. I give the floor to the representative of the government, Maxim Nephrodov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, on my part, I ask you to support the cybersecurity bill. In this editorial, we don't see any threats that could affect ProZorro's function. At the same time, I would like to point out that this bill is extremely important; it is not debated; it is non-fractional; it is superfractional; it has to unite all with regard to the sole purpose of protecting the interests of the State, regarding the creation of greater opportunities for our services, which are extremely important during the period of hybrid aggression. So I would like to ask everyone to support this bill, it meets European standards. In fact, every country in the world has a cybercenter that works with an organ such as the PNB. And in that format, I think it would be a powerful step to protect and support our defenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u43	Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. Please prepare for the vote. Please be supportive. Well, in order to secure the votes, I give the floor to Victor Bondarou. Please give us a chance. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, first of all, considering how much the economics chief has spilled dirt in the last week, I think he should apologize first to the MPs, which is so unfairly acting. Because in order to water the dirt, we first need to talk to the author and talk about the motivation. The other one. If he's so concerned about the ProZorro system, I'm also concerned that it works properly and that it exists in the state, that it saves public funds, that you can talk to the committee about putting a coma on, and write, for example, "except the ProZorro system," if he's already so concerned. And the third. The comprehensive information protection system, which is to be implemented in any state institution, would allow any government authorities to see who, when conducting tenders, knows the results of tenders in advance and sees in the ProZorro database system who was in there, who was watching and who was touching the information with their fingers before the tender was conducted. But if that's the question, we can bypass the ProZorro system and not touch it if there are so many observations. But there are corruption risks on the side, including Mr. Nephrodov. I don't want to continue to comment, let it be their question, we support complex information protection systems and we support any fight against cybercrime, because the whole world is suffering from these situations. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u45	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u46	And I think that all state databases, websites, information systems have to be protected by a complex information protection system, that's how security services work around the world, and that's how it's supposed to be in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u47	Do you support me? Yeah, it's a rebirth team. We can go to the vote and I'm putting the vote back on the motion to vote on the draft Law (2126a) on the basic principles of cybersecurity in Ukraine. Colleagues, the issue of national security and defence, please vote and ask everyone to support, take up jobs, every vote matters, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please support the return. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the return. [[16:37:34]] For 205 I'm going to set an unlimited number of times under the Rules that I can put on return, I've only once put on return, colleagues. Block of Peter Poshenko – 86, National Front – 58, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party Ljashka – 13, Fatherskina – 10, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 2. Mr. Victor, you promised to give the votes more. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. Mr. Victor, we agreed that you would give the votes, just two votes to come back. Please add more votes, please, it was our human arrangement. Please, colleagues, let's remobilize. Please take over every job. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal, going back to 2126a. Colleagues, please support the cybersecurity of Ukraine, please support this law and please vote, each vote has a weight and has a meaning. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to support, we vote, colleagues, please support, please vote, please support. [[16:39:19]] For 196 Colleagues, if you reread the second reading? Could there be another? Colleagues, let's do it. Andrew, please, mate, nine, it's a matter of cybersecurity, we can't go out on it, friends. We're humiliating the whole country right now, you only put it to a vote once. Please come into the hall. One more minute, head of the committee, please. Come into the hall. Danchenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, all talk a lot about war, everyone's willing to protect, help. Everyone knows that the Cyber Security Act is being considered today. Three years of war, and we still don't have any legislation to say anything about cybersecurity. Everyone's here. A lot of people came from business, everybody had some business, some structural business. The concept of critical infrastructure is not only an issue, if you think there's virtual cybersecurity out there, but it's the cybersecurity of every infrastructure. Energy, financial, telecommunications, every infrastructure, every person. I am very much asking you to call, invite your fellow Members of Parliament to the Hall and vote on this bill in a second reading, as a whole. In order not to move it to second reading again, it's too much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u49	I'm going to put it again, and I'm going to tell you, by the way, it's not a fact that we're going to pick up the second reading. So let's just maximize right now. Mr. Victor, Bondar Victor. Wait a minute, I'll give you my word for Maxim Nephedov's speech. Please come into the hall, not come out, friends, but come in. Please come into the hall. Please, Maxim Nepheodov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, for my part, I greatly appreciate working with Parliament, and I would like to say that if my words have offended someone or have been taken improperly, that is certainly not what I meant. We often have quite a heated argument with many of you, just as they are among all the factions. Above all, we should always remember that we are working together, not on the process. So I encourage everyone, and I will also try to do everything on my part to make sure that we have a common position that we are not ashamed of, first of all, in front of our state, even when it comes to hard work and sometimes hot discussions. We all have emotions, but in this case I am absolutely convinced that emotion cannot stand on. A barrier to the country's security. So I urge all to unite in this regard and, on my part, also to work actively in this direction. Thank you. Yes, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u51	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u52	And again. And again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u53	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u54	And once again, of course, I apologize if I have offended someone or if my words have been taken improperly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u55	So, colleagues, I hope the discussion is over on this and we're going to vote. Please, colleagues, take up your jobs. Victor, are you okay? Don't you vote? Colleagues, I'm putting the vote back to the 2126a vote. Please vote, please support. Please vote return. Please vote. [[16:45:23]] For 204 Are you backing up again, colleagues? Is everyone backing up again? Victor, can you back me up again? It's a committee to work on. Let's, colleagues, mobilize around the next proposal, which sounds like, "On re-second reading," "Go to the committee for second reading again." Please, let's mobilize around this proposal. And I call for a vote in favour of returning to the committee for a second reading of the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine (number 2126a). Colleagues, please mobilize, vote and support. Vote. 2126a is rereading the second reading. Please support me. [[16:46:29]] For 212 How good it is on the air to talk about cybersecurity, and how hard it is to get to the workplace and work, colleagues! You know, it's really got to be published in the press by everyone who's missing that day. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm going to put the proposal back on the committee again. Please mobilize, invite MPs. It's irresponsible! It's mean to those guys who are on the front line today, and to all those who are feeling attacks and cyber attacks by a Russian aggressor, a colleague. It's a second reading again, it's a compromise proposal. I ask you to take part in the vote and I ask you to vote. Once again, I put a motion to the committee to re-read the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine (2126a). Please vote. Please be supportive. We vote, every voice matters. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[16:47:58]] For 217 Again. Don't leave the hall. Don't leave the hall. Please enter the hall, take your seats. A few votes are not enough. Please, I'll put you to the vote now, take your seats. I'm re-voting the proposal to return to 2126a. Colleagues, I'm making an offer. It's the second time again, it's not a decision. Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to return to proposal 2126a. Please vote. Please be supportive. Return to 2126a. Please support the return. Please vote. Every vote matters, please vote. I vote for the return. Please be supportive. [[16:49:19]] For 223 Three votes! I see we're not there yet. I'll put it in. Three votes. Please take up jobs. Come into the hall, take it. I see, Andrew. I can see it's not working. I'm going to do it again. Please approach the workplace. I would like to re-vote the proposal to return to draft Law 2126a. Please be supportive. Please vote. Careful, every voice. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote, colleagues. Please support and vote back to 2126a. Please be supportive. Keep it up, fellows. [[16:50:14]] For 223 Not yet, 223. Don't leave the hall. Please, three votes. Invite the deputies to the hall. I'll do it again now. One came up, one more. Now, ten seconds, and we put the vote again. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, I see it's at least three deputies, please take your jobs. I repeat my offer to return to the 2126a vote. Colleagues, I ask everyone to take part in the vote now, and I ask you to support the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine, 2126a. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support, let's vote, colleagues. Every voice matters, we vote, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[16:52:02]] For 222 Please. What's going on in the hall, colleagues? I suggest you take the second one again. Olya, wait, I'll do it again. Colleagues, I'll put it back on, please. I'll put it again, I'll put it again. It's just a way to keep the law. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. I'll bet. It's all right, isn't it? Should we take it as a basis or not? Okay, I'm putting the vote back to 2126a, providing for Ukrainian cybersecurity. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Come back. Yeah, I'll be right back, colleagues. Yeah, there'll be another one. Please support the return. "Rebirth" will vote. Please vote for the return. Every voice. Please support me. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support the return to 2126a. And I'll put it on return. I'll re-read it. [[16:53:19]] For 219 They weren't. I am. Look, we'll come back, and then I'll put the second one back. Please vote. Colleagues! I'm going to put the vote back on the table, and then I'm going to put it on the committee for work. I'm not going to lay a foundation. I'll put you on the committee for work. There's just got to be two votes. I promise, that's my word. I'm asking you to back me up. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine (2126a). Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:54:20]] For 222 Well, four votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Well, how are there no people? I see there's a lot of people sitting in the Opposition Block, enough to make decisions. Colleagues! Four votes. Please come into the hall, I'll put it to the vote again. Please. Guys, what's the break? Pause is not possible. We're missing four votes. My colleagues, please take your jobs. I'll put them back up. I see people's deputies are in. And I'll bet again. You guys are a lot more than that. I put to the vote, once again, a return to the draft Cyber Security Act of Ukraine (2126a), please return. And I'm going to put you back on the committee for work. Please vote for the return. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:55:57]] For 226 We're back. Colleagues, as I promised, I'm putting the second one back on the committee for work. I ask everyone to mobilize, vote everyone. I'm voting on a draft bill on basic principles for ensuring Ukraine's cybersecurity (2126a) to send to the committee for a second reading. I ask everyone to vote, to support everyone. I ask you to vote and support 2126a to the committee for a second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. It's a matter of national security. I ask everyone to vote. Voting, voting. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. [[16:56:54]] For 236 Decision taken. Colleagues, but it was unpleasant for me as the Head of Parliament and for every national MP. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! We're staying where we are. I want to tell you, attention! Now I'm going to give you a break. Colleagues, pay attention! Now there's the next bill on electronic trust services, and it has 500 amendments. I don't want to get into the process if there's no way to accept it. I have the right to put the ratings vote on the regulation to study the willingness to adopt this bill. I have that right. I don't make the law, I don't make the law. I place a rating vote on the willingness of factions. We'll go all the way if we're ready to look at it in the hall. I'm voting on the proposal to study the willingness to take part in this issue. Is that understood or not? If there's no votes, we just can't get in. We're just not going to get into it, colleagues. I have decrees to reject the votes that are in the georgean tapes, according to the law of Savechenko, and we must pass them, too. If there are no votes, we will move on to regulations that do not need to be included in the agenda of the session. I bet the rating vote is ready to go to the next draft of Law 4685. Who thinks we're ready to go in there, please vote. Please, 4685, about electronic trust services. Please vote on the matter. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Please vote. Please participate in the rating vote. Please. [[16:58:58]] For 214 Colleagues, I would like to inform you that under the Rules I have the right, I do not have the right, I am obliged to put to the vote draft decrees repealing the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are a number of such decrees. And now I'm going to put them outside the Rules to a vote, not a vote, to a discussion. But before that, I'm announcing a break from two factions, they're willing to replace it with a performance, it's from the Self-Help factions and the Radical Party. And they're willing to replace it with a performance, and I invite you to say Jehora Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u56	I think it's not just in the country, but there are people in this room who are asking themselves, how much tax payers did yesterday's helicopter operation cost? I think that there are people in this room who remember that back in 2015, more than two years ago, there were about 10 bills that allowed this problem to be settled when the courts put in charge of corrupts, much less money than they stole. When today the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the other top-masters are complaining to the judges, I have questions to them and to those colleagues in parliament who support them: and what is the problem, let's put this law to a vote and approve it. Not enough votes? Self-help will do as well as for any good decision, along with you, we are ready to vote on this law immediately. The other one. People who sit in court are the result of people who sit in Parliament and in the President's Administration. If the Higher Council of Justice still has a man named Greek, even though Yuri Lucenko has published, as usual, a picture of the dollars packaged in Facebook with which the Greeks were detained, and he continues to pick up judges, then what are the judges to complain about. I was told by an experienced parliamentarian, who is a member of the police, at the beginning of this call: their main grief in the investigation is not to go out on my own. It seems to me that this is a key problem that stops all anti-corruption investigations in this country by the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. Stop fooling people at their expense, and such shows are expensive to tax payers, both to the state, and to the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u57	My colleagues, I remind you that, under the Rules, I am obliged to put to the vote drafts of the Order repealing the decisions of the Supreme Council, as they will come from the Regulatory Committee. I received from the Regulatory Committee a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 May 2017 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Act supplementing the Code of Administrative Offences, banning the production and promotion of george tapes. It is not possible to sign our Law on George Tapes until we revoke this decree. So we're going to look at it. And I'm putting the first vote on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support the reduced procedure, please support. Please support the reduced procedure, please. You have to, you have to, they say you need a shorter one. Please vote, the summary procedure of 2987 on the repeal of the Law on George Tapes. Please, 150 votes, please back up, please back up so we can quickly, effectively reject it, please back up, vote. [[17:04:06]] For-160. Thank you for understanding. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shenchev Dmitry Alexiyovich. I invite you to report to the deputy chairman of the Committee of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u58	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! I considered the ruling committee (registration number 2987-P) under the authority of the National Deputies of Shenchev Dmitry Aleksiowicz and Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, submitted by the People's Deputies, the authors of this draft regulation, in the order of article 48 of the Rules for the Abolition of the Decision of the Supreme Council on the Adoption of the whole draft Act supplementing the Code of Administrative Offences on the Prohibition of the Production and Propagation of the George Tape. I've set up a committee next. The authors of the decree insist that there has been a violation of the Rules, since it was put to the vote in general for comments to the Bill. After reviewing the transcript of the plenary session, the committee concluded that the authors had expressed their views during the plenary session on specific provisions of the draft law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, no claims of violation of the Rules have been made. As decided by the committee, I request that the Plenary Hall be determined by way of a vote on this draft order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, two in, two in. Let's have a very concise discussion. The lube, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u60	Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, Major Electoral District 60, Donetsk Region. The Peter Prashenko faction won't support the ruling, please let the entire room vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u61	Radical Party, Wolf. He's handing over Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u62	Dear Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. The attitude toward the Georgen tape, in the same way, is demonstrated by the authors of this decree, who did not even come to the hall for consideration. They need it exclusively for one purpose to undermine Ukraine in order to continue General Vlasov’s work. To continue to cover the immortal poles under the banners of the Interu, which are led by the choirs here in Kiev, the Battles, the Lions and other Kremlin agencies. Of course, this decision will not support the majority of those present in this room. But at the same time, if you don't support this decision, if you support the ban on the George tape, stop going to the Inter Channel, stop supporting those who plant this tape in the country. [[Applause]] I'm calling the Ukrainian Security Service again. Please check the work of the cable producer Hanny the Freeman, who is, in fact, the main organizer of these immortal-death regiments led here by the Kremlin Agency. And finally, colleagues, next parliamentary week, let's support the proposal of the Radical Party and create a temporary investigation commission that will study how Moscow is funded by this Kremlin, not only by the tape, but also by the Inter to ban, nationalize. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u63	From the Opposition Block of Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we certainly know that this hall will not support this decision, we are aware of it. But this decision was not only made in relation to the fact that a bill was voted on, but we would like to draw the attention of the public, the international community, perhaps some deputies who will listen to the content of this decree, that this room is in very systematic violation of the requirements of the Rules. A violation of the Rules is a norm, no one is paying attention to it. Sometimes when some people are represented. coalitions whose rights are being violated are appealing to the Rules and, as for opposition, the Rules remain silent. This is the norm when the Rules are broken when the law is broken. Everyone here is saying that Ukraine is a rule of law that needs to be followed by law, especially by those who have problems with the law. This is a very interesting situation. But whoever it is, whoever this law is, it is one for all: for both the Head and the ordinary national deputy. We have seen the law being passed here today: the seventh or the eighth time we return. In the Head of the Supreme Council, his own interpretation: The Rules do not prohibit the number of returns. It's absurd, it's never been like this before. There have never been any amendments to the Rules. And so to interpret it, I find it wrong and unreasonable to be a lawyer. And as for the Vlasov army, the faction of the Opposition Block is preparing a bill that prohibits symbolism, both Vlasov and other Nazi textbooks. This is something that has been forgotten in the relevant Law on the Condemnation of Totalitarian Regimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u65	Yuri Bereza, one minute. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u66	I want to remind the Opposition Block, or the Party of Regions, that a little bit forgot how Chechetov was in this room commanding and violating the Rules. That's the first one. The other one. Back to the George tape, returning to the symbols of the Soviets will never be in this room. The Ukrainians in the east won't let you. And stop, however, the fifth column, continuing to play and to dance on the bones not only of those who died during World War II but of our warriors who gave their lives to the east in the war you fought in the war in which you invited the invader to your land. And you need to pray, pray, and pray to the Ukrainian people so that you do not have to witness in The Hague. And that's what's waiting for you in front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u67	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that this is a draft decree calling off our decision on george tapes. The law cannot be signed until this decree is repealed. So anyone who advocates for the law to be signed should vote against this decree. Whoever advocates that the law not be signed votes in favour. Understand? So I'm voting on the draft Decree 2987-P. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[17:13:20]] For-19 The decree is rejected. Next. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 May 2017 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the Draft Law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (for the rules on the imposition of sentences and the counting of terms of prior imprisonment) (5534-P). According to the Rules, articles 48, paragraph 9, of the annulment decrees are considered automatically for a reduced procedure. There's no need to vote. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the National MP, Shiph Andrija Fedorovich. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u68	Dear Head, dear colleagues, very briefly. The author of the decree proposes that the Supreme Council should be abolished because he felt that there was little place for him to vote in private. The Committee has repeatedly expressed its position that the issue of non-personal voting is resolved and that the 47th article of the Rules is fully exhausted. And these motions of annulment in the 48th non-personal vote do not apply. My conclusion was confirmed. Let us be determined by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a brief discussion of factions: two in favour, two in favour. And I know that from non-fractional authors of the law, he wants to have a word. We'll give you a non-fractional word. Please sign up. Please, Michael Kucher is transmitting from Peter Dusty's Block. Mr. Kutcher.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u70	I give up my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u71	I'll take the floor, if I may, from Peter Dustenk's Block. I'll talk out of place, because I can't go out to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I will not repeat the figures that are known to everyone as to what is happening to those people who have been punished and have been released under this law and committed a crime. We can agree that we need to humanize the penitentiary system. And as a European state, we are obliged to do so. And it seems to me that we need to strengthen parliamentary control in the format that the Ministry of Justice is now reforming, the penitentiary system is reforming, and obviously the prisons should be reformed. Even those who have committed a crime have the right to be held in dignity and not to sit for years waiting for a sentence, it is obvious. But I also want to say that the subject I'm dealing with is the release of hostages, along with the Minsk Group, along with other colleagues, our diplomats, and others, I want to say that we face the consequences of this law every day. Ukraine, as a state of law, is implementing this law. And imagine, every week two, three people under this law, who have been convicted of articles about secession, terrorism, are released. While Ukrainian hostages have been held in occupied areas for years, they are not allowed either by the Red Cross or by humanitarian missions. In Minsk this time, even the Human Rights Commissioner, Mrs. Lutkowska, was denied a visit to prisons in occupied areas to see what conditions there are for those who, by the way, simply serve sentences for crimes committed against the State of Ukraine and for which sentences were handed down by 2014, but key, and hostages. And in fact, today we are faced with an absurd situation, in general, where representatives of the ORDO and the ORLO require Ukraine to go to houses and verify the unwillingness to move to occupied areas of those people who have already been released under this law and who are free to go with passports and who can go anywhere. We actually see the absurdity of what's going on. And I want to agree with the authors that we need to protect human rights, even the criminal who is in prison. We have to take care of this together. But the consequences of this law need to be corrected together now, and we must not allow criminals to repeat their crimes. Thank you. And I give the floor to Mr. Curvy of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u72	Gennady Krivoshea, please pass the word to Anton Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u73	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! We didn't cancel this "Savchenko law," which killed 56 people at the hands of those who had left their term earlier. We did not adopt this law to abolish it after thousands of thefts were committed by those who had come out earlier. This law, I believe, was generally a very successful development of Russian intelligence services, which, through Mrs. Nadia Savchenko, passed this law to the Supreme Council Hall. And unfortunately, we went for it. As a result, crime has increased dramatically. As a result, including in the streets of our cities. That's why we, the People's Front faction, are not going to support the decision to revoke the vote against the Savachenko Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u75	Please, from Self-Help is the national MP of Semimenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u76	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u77	Please, Mr. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! There have been many high references to human rights and the need to level that injustice. But I would like to remind you that with the exact same drink, we have recently been adamant to vote for the law of Savechenko so-called. And we also criticized the law to some extent and talked about the consequences it might have. But when it is absolutely true that there is a terrible criminogenic situation with those who are released from places of imprisonment, this is not about this law, and this is because our penitentiary system is not about correcting people, not about getting them on the path of correction, but about turning them into even greater criminals. So in this case, whether this law will be repealed or left behind, it doesn't solve two major problems, it's a reform of the penitentiary system, and it's bringing to European standards the maximum duration of keeping people in custody. So in this case, I would very much like to urge the entire room and the entire Ukrainian politician to realize that in no way are we correcting the disgraceful situation that we have in connection with the relapses that have to do with those people who are going out and getting out of jail, and in no way are we solving the problem of the penitentiary system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u79	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mr. Melniczuk of the will of the people. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u80	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. First of all, this decision is registered for the fact that there were buttons, people who weren't there, someone voted for them. Like the faction I once voted in, I was not even in the country in January 15th. It's a disgrace. But now it's the essence of the law. I said in my previous speech under this law that people who don't have a conviction yet, they're just accused, and that doesn't mean that in every case there's going to be a verdict and it's there or that these people aren't potential criminals yet. We have to do everything we can to make sure that even in those cases, if a person returns to normal life, he behaves normally, not angry with society, we have to do everything we can to improve the situation in the penitentiary institutions, and this law only makes the situation worse. What has been said before is that crimes have been committed. Yeah, there's increased crime, but let them say what percentage of total crime is in the country, if 10 percent, that's very good. Why crime is growing, let it be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, I think it'll be fair. Yeah, from factions and then from non-fractionals. Please, National Deputy Homutinnik and National. Excuse me, People's Department, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And then he's a German national deputy. And then there's Hope Savchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I'd like to specify what we're talking about right now. If there are 226 votes now, we will have the system that is in place today, that is, the day of the previous imprisonment, in two days of imprisonment. If it's not 226, the old system will come back day after day. What are we talking about? Unfortunately, the author of the bill is not on leave, but he asked to say that the non-personal vote had been recorded, that the relevant statements had been made, six statements of non-personal vote. There was also a video showing how MPs vote for others. In general, there were 22 non-personal ballots, as I know, based on this check. The point is, therefore, that there has been a technically nonpersonal vote and a violation of the Rules. Parliament must therefore determine whether it is acting under the Rules and Law or whether it is closing it because of its political powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Pisarenko. Please, National Deputy Germany of the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I have spoken last time, and once again I wish to draw your attention, we, as legislators, must follow the Constitution clearly. Read article 58, we can't just, no matter how much we don't want to understand, that 50 people, 56 people died because they came out repeatists, whether they were raised or not, that's not the question of what's going on. Now, what about whether we can solve the question in this way? This is the case of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, those initiators of the law on the abolition of the previous one must turn to the Constitutional Court and recognize it as unconstitutional and then we will say that we are acting within the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u85	Thank you, colleague. Please, Hope Savchenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u86	Colleagues, today is the anniversary of my will, and first of all, I want to thank you, as well as all the Ukrainians, and you, including you, for fighting for me at the time, wanted to do it, but you helped the man who was sitting without guilt in prison to get out. You've been with me all these years of torture. Yeah, we have a lot of guys still sitting there, and maybe not every one of you, colleagues, went this way, I mean the way of imprisonment, to understand what the law was about. But I also thank you for having adopted a law that you called "the law of Saucenco," by adopting it without me, you've allowed two years to work for it, and you've enabled people who have been sitting for ten years who haven't been proven guilty because there was no guilt. You've allowed these people to get their will just as much as I do. You've actually done a very good thing, you've given many innocent people the will -- maybe the best thing you've ever done in your life. And you'd probably appreciate it if you'd ever been taken away from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u87	One minute, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u88	Of course, the law was not simple and needed balance in order to enter the system, and more specifically it needed refinement and a full court order to make it fair. Well, there wasn't enough time, or there was no opportunity to do that, although there were three, respectively, alternative bills that could be adopted on the basis and worked out, there was a lack of political will, unfortunately. You have now made a decision that really violates the Constitution. And I'm pointing out that you've been talking about criminals who go out and repeat crimes, you're now committing a crime after violating the Constitution of article 22, you're narrowing down human rights. I would not recommend setting such an example and setting an example for all criminals who could be reinstated. I would like to invite everyone to join this bill, to work together, which will really provide a good basis for further development of the judicial system, which is very large.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u89	Thank you. 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u90	which we have a complaint about the system itself, we could work on. Just show us right now that we can not abuse or violate the Constitution. We cannot frustrate this decree if we can confirm the law that it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u91	Thank you, dear colleague. And thank you, thank you for the presentation and welcome you with your anniversary on the loose. And now we're going to vote on that. That's the determination. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to take a look at me now. Look, we've just received a statement from our colleagues who were very respectful, who listened in the previous decree, and they voted with a green button, even though they were against it. And I want to point out that the national MPs: Horvath, Melnik, Chubarov, Berezenko and., and Ishchenko, they voted, they meant that they were against the fact that the georgean band could function in Ukraine, and they wanted to press the button. So I'm asking you very much that we don't have any misunderstandings right now. Anyone who opposes us returning to the Ukrainian legislative field of this law is voting with a red button now. Who's in favour of this decision to return is voting in favour. Understand? What about George?Oh, my God! Also, the National MP, Georges, asks that he say that he made a mistake during the previous vote. Please be careful, everyone, please be careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u92	Colleagues, so let's get to the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 May 2017 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the right to impose sentences and to count the term of prior imprisonment (number 5534-P (Decision). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Vote. [[17:30:46.]] For-31 The decree is rejected. And the next two decisions. This is a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 May 17 on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Audiovisual (Electronic) Media (5313 and Alternative – 5313-P1). And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. This refers to the TV quota law that we passed on Tuesday. Please, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u93	Thank you. I want to explain to you what the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has done. In fact, another violation of the Rules and the violation is now being made, because the decree registered under number 5313-P1 has not been and has not been considered by the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. it cannot now be considered in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is clearly, clearly and clearly stated by the Rules. If this is not understandable to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a third part, article 48, – let the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus show the rules of the Supreme Council. Regarding the bill that I registered. Now, I'm not talking about the essence of this bill, but I'm just talking about breaking the Rules again. Thus, on May 23, 2017, the bill was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for second reading. And there was no comparative table; it only appeared the day the bill was considered. If we look at the rule of the Rules, it clearly and clearly states that the table for second reading is given by the Ukrainian National Deputy 10 days before this project is considered in the session hall. That is, an absolute violation of the Rules. And second, another money made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a clear norm of 116 articles that clearly and clearly state that in the second reading only those articles that were in the body of the law on the first reading may not be taken, as was the case with 140 and 141 amendments, to make changes to articles that were not discussed in the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u94	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u95	That's why I'm telling you again. We have no legal right today to consider as an alternative, because it was, it is not an alternative, it is a separate decision, the author is the national deputy of Jacob Besbach, because the decree, this bill, was not considered on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of the Rules. Thank you. And this bill I ask for support from those who support compliance with the Supreme Council Rules, because it is the law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u96	Thank you. There was a call for me, I'll answer that. This is not about the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. It's the Ukrainian Language Protection Act. And there's an effort just to do everything possible to block his signing. I would like to inform you that the draft decision 5313 was submitted for consideration by the committee. Then it was given almost identical, it goes as an alternative to it. And they go together, one as a base, one as an alternative. And with the rest, only the hall can determine how to vote. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. And I don't think we're going to be able to delay signing the Ukrainian Language Protection Act on television. Moreover, the President said he would sign it immediately. Please, Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u97	Colleagues, about the Project Order 5313 with the "P" badge of 23.05. 17 for the authorship of the National Deputies, Pavlovka and Papiev. As the previous rapporteur explained, the author of the bill referred to the presiding officer during the session for a violation of the two-point rule. It's a violation of 116, in preparation for second reading and breaking periods of familiarity with materials, with a comparative table of your own for second reading. The committee’s conclusions are reflected in the relevant information. Please determine whether to support or not to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u98	Thank you. Please record. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bezbach Yakovovich, is also invited to speak. And I'm offering to talk, to sign up: two in, two in, against, please. Burbak, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u99	Victoria Sumar, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, when I listen to colleagues who are very hurt by the Rules, I want to tell you that you don't do the Rules, because we agreed to the Bill, re-registered it, worked on the reconciliation of each position, worked with all Ukrainians, but I emphasize, Ukrainian television channels, not Russian agents here with mass propaganda. And they agreed to this bill with all the pro-Ukrainian political forces here in Parliament. You're actually a pain in the ass here for Russian propaganda, and you know it. You're not worried about the rules of the Rules right now, but you're worried about continuing to be shown cream concerts with Kremlin actors on the Internet. Well, let's be honest, this is what we're talking about. You want to cancel this so that further Russian soap, which, in the form of humanitarian ideological assistance to the pro-Russian channels, is directed here, then fed to the Ukrainians, you want to do that. You don't just care about Ukrainian language, you don't care about Ukrainian culture, you don't care about Ukrainian ideology, you don't care about your own state, really. Because it's important for you to keep moving here, these Russian ideological clichés are written and sounded in Russian, and they're actually taken out in Russia, shown in Russia. And it's still being broadcast by one of the national channels. But the Supreme Council and she proved it by voting on Tuesday, it's not some branch of the owners of the Inter Channel, it's the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u101	Thank you. Victoria said very well, it's not a regulatory struggle, it's a struggle for Russian interests in the Ukrainian Parliament. I don't think we're gonna let that happen. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u102	A few days ago, the State Migration Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs took a very important action, banned the entry into Ukraine of Russian Feesbecian agent, polytechnologist, ideologist of the Separatist channel "Inter" Igor Shuvalov. The Migration Service and the IMF did what they were supposed to do a few years ago. Because after the Dignity Revolution, this person continued to work in Ukraine, had an official work permit in Ukraine, and this official permit was given by the Ukrainian authorities instead of giving jobs to Ukrainians, we allow open, legal work in Ukraine by the Russian agency. Igor Shuvalov, who was banned by Arsen Avakov and the Migration Service for five years from entering Ukraine, author of the three - grade division of Ukraine, is an ideologist for the division of Ukraine by language. I'm talking to the deputies and so-called opposition, and actually the Trojan Moscow bloc: stop dividing Ukraine by language. There is no case in Ukraine of people being persecuted for speaking Russian. My wife speaks Russian, and she and I have been together for 20 years, and I have never once given her any claim. But give us, Ukrainians, people born on this earth, people who love Ukrainian, who speak Ukrainian, give us the opportunity to watch television in their own language, listen to radio broadcasters, give us the opportunity to speak Ukrainian in their own country, and not to be persecuted or asked where you came from, hohol, as was 20 years ago in Kiev when I spoke Ukrainian. So let us work and pay people, not invent artificial problems as language.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u103	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich of the "Will of the People" Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u104	I want to go to the Opposition Block, enough to start animosity based on language. When we were on the front, we didn't have any language questions. Even in my own time, I went over and thought in Russian, and I ate in Russian. But when I returned to speak more in Ukrainian, I returned again, so we calmly allowed our mentality to speak any language. But I want to say to you, "Don't be bad as long as it's quiet," and especially in Mariupol, where 68 Russian schools, 20 Ukrainian schools, and you're shutting down Ukrainian schools, 23 schools. Note this, or wake up. And you'll be in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u105	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u106	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it is clear that this determination should be rejected and that it may have been a short but painful question for all. I thank everyone who spoke to me and I think they said the right things. The situation is very simple: we should explain to people the pragmatic role of language. I repeat this on all airs from this rostrum. We all love our fellow Ukrainian word, and we are lucky that it is the most beautiful in the world, and it is thought to be beautiful after Italian. But we need to explain to people why they need to speak this language pragmatically. Why Israel, why Poland, why France, why Germany, why everyone is protecting their languages? Each person becomes either Japanese, or French, or Chinese, or Ukrainian, on the basis of four factors. The first is parenting, the second is culture, the environment that surrounds a person, the third is blood, genetics, the fourth is the energy of the earth, the Egregre who thinks so. No system knows what a mix they're in, what a person says: I'm French, I'm Ukrainian, I'm Italian. But the first two are thought to be fundamental: parental education, national culture. Language is the basis of any national culture. National culture is the basis of the desire to have a state that protects this culture, which creates this space in which you want to live comfortably. When a person's speech wears off, he becomes a cosmopolitan, and he's the same as where he lives. Ecology, income, security, a good school for children -- these are the criteria for choosing a place to live. Or it becomes the bearer of another culture and, as a result, the buyer of another state. And that's why Russia invested so many millions of dollars in Russian culture, Russian language in Ukraine. Not because they love her so much, but because it's a mechanism to form a loyal society that will then order that state. So he invested $10 million in Russian in Crimea -- he got 100 billion of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u107	Ten seconds, finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u108	That's why they put crazy money into culture. Remember when Churchill was told that when he was brought in during the war, when there was nothing to eat, London was bombed, there was a budget where there was no funding for culture. He said, "Well, how come there's no funding for culture? Then why are we funding the army? What are we protecting?" So I urge everyone to vote in red, and the law to work. We were already afraid that the Ukrainian Language Act would not work on the radio, telling everyone that it was not a quota, and it was a living space for our language, for our culture. We're just expanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u109	Colleagues, it's just a minute. And I want to warn you, I've been approached by a committee. Since we will not be able to consider a great bill, the committee asked us to consider a draft decree on changes in the administrative system of the Donetsk Region, a change in the boundaries of the Slovenian region of the Donetsk Region (6,105). If there's room will, we'll move it and vote. And let's get this ruling over with. Please, one minute, Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko. And one minute of Self-Help Simeonich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, this bill is extremely important, socially resonant, it has been adopted with a grave violation of the Rules, and I think it is to a large extent a violation of the Ukrainian language. Moreover, there are norms in the bill that violate Ukraine’s international obligations. That's why the Opposition Block calls on the Head of the Supreme Council to direct this language quota bill to an expert evaluation by the Council of Europe, to the Venice Commission. In our view, experts need to determine whether the approved law meets international law and standards, as well as the commitments made by Ukraine. For its part, the Opposition Block is ready to provide the necessary legal assistance to implement this procedure. I also ask the room to support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u111	One minute, Self-Help, and we'll move on to decision-making. Yes, more Fatherland, Eutuszek. Please, Semenha. Turn on the microphone, Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u112	Self-help supports this ruling as soon as possible in order to allow it to unlock the signing of the language quota bill. The law is clearly not perfect, but it certainly takes a step forward to protect our linguistic state border. But it has to be understood that it's not a language law, it's actually a law about depopulation, it's a law about decolonization from the Russian yoke, and that's how it's to be accepted. At the same time, colleagues, we can solve issues with radio quotas, on television, but let's face it, it is this Supreme Council that is historically called upon to adopt a comprehensive Ukrainian Language Act that will protect us. No other parliament in the world will protect our national language, for language must be protected both in the public and in the public sphere. I call upon the Head of the Supreme Council to move to the session room as soon as possible and to consider a comprehensive law that will protect our national language. This will never happen in any memorandum with the IMF or any other Western partner. Only its own national parliament will protect its own national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u113	Now I'm going to give it to Sergei. Just checking in. Colleagues, you have a habit, you often say that you are the most protective of the Rules, the habit of addressing me in laws that do not have a committee decision. You know there's a working group working on the committee. The head of the Supreme Council has no right to do so. Work in the task force. I support this idea. And I want to remind you that in that room, Parobya Andry was defending Ukrainian language and everyone knows how he defended it. When the bandits who speak today about protecting the Rules brought here the fighters they brought to Parliament, not for legislative activity, but for the purpose of maiming the Ukrainian forces. And they here in Parliament have mutilated deputies from the various factions that are here, and now they're telling us about Europe and the Rules. It's a double standard. It's not just mean, it shows that they don't have anything Ukrainian. And I, colleagues, am no one more than a great supporter of this House's adoption of the law. So, Sergey Eutuszek, please, from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u114	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to say that this draft decree is registered as well as the previous two or three registered for one purpose, so that it may still delay time and not allow you to sign this document, Mr. Head, and send the document to the President for signature. The language refers to what sacred signs, sacred to our nation, sacred to Ukraine, such as the coat of arms, which are the flag, are such a sign of sacred speech and language! And actually, if I were, I'd like to talk to those fighters who speak Russian. Please respond with understanding. Would there be such a process when, on an annexed, more faithful, on the occupied Donbassa, our people who are behind the passport of Ukraine, but in fact, they call to other values, to the values of Russia and the aggressor, to the values of the imperial various demands, can they really be the ones who love their country without language?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u115	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u116	I'm talking to these fighters. The language is the foundation of what the nation will live on, of what will flourish all of our signs of statehood, which have been initiated by other Cossacks, so please put it to a quick vote, break this decree and sign it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m1.u117	Thank you. So we can move on to making a decision. For there to be no questions, I will put each of those decisions to a separate vote. You all remember the logic: Who, in order for the law to be signed, votes with a red button; who, for it to be blocked, votes with a green button. And I'm going to vote first. draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 May 17 on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Audiovisual (Electronic) Media. First, 5313-P. The author of Papiev, who supports this decision, please vote. Anyone who does not support, vote against it. Please, colleagues. [[17:51:40]] For -14 The decree is rejected. The second draft was passed by 5313-P1 of the people's deputy Besbah Yakova Yaković. Those who support this decision vote in green, who vote in red for the law to be signed. Please vote 5313-P1. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:52:12]] For the 15th. The decree is rejected. So this opens up the possibility for me to sign the Ukrainian Television Space Protection Act on quotas for 75 percent of Ukrainian television, which I welcome throughout the hall, but today, without delay, I will sign this law. Colleagues, I have been asked to invite the deputies to the Hall right now, and there was a request for us to consider today's urgent draft of the Order on Changes in the Administrative System of the Donetsk Region, Change and Establish the Borders of the Slovenian Region of the Donetsk Region. The committee's calling and I'll put it on the transfer. There will be votes -- votes, votes, no votes. I'm promised that this will be the overall support of the entire hall and we can get through. Let's try, if we don't take it over now, we won't look at it, if we don't move it, we'll look at it quickly. If you would like the heads of factions to invite the deputies into the hall, I'll wait 30 seconds. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. We still have five minutes, three, five minutes. And if there's really a common support of the hall, we can look at it quickly, effectively. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So the law that stands next, it has 500 rights, we can't get to it, and that's why there's a proposal to transpose the law, which is in order of the day, so that we can look at it now. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft decree on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Donetsk Region, changing and establishing the boundaries of the Slovenian region of the Donetsk Region, which is in the order of the day, we moved forward and considered now (6105). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. It's a short decision, we'll be able to look at it now if there's general support. [[17:54:14]] For 177 Apparently, there's no room support. My colleagues, today was not a simple, difficult day. We passed important laws to protect the cultural environment and national sports in Ukraine. I'm sure that Law 4666, which was very systemic, which we've been looking at for almost two hours, that our decision to send him back for second reading will give us an opportunity to rework it, allow for a project that will be supported and adopted in the hall. And, dear colleagues, at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you, good-bye, tomorrow.
