ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues ready to register? Please take up jobs and please register, colleagues. Please register. [[10:04:51]] 322 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, I would like to welcome together the positive decision of the Lower House of the Netherlands Parliament (Palade of Representatives) on the ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. 89 of the 150 deputies voted in favour of the ratification of the agreement. Thank you to the parliamentary majority for your position and support of Ukraine. By supporting Ukraine, you are investing in the future, maintaining stability and peace in Europe, cementing the anti-putin coalition. This is another sure step towards our goal, an association with the European Union. This vote is not the final step of ratification, we await the Senate's decision. However, I am confident that the Senate will also support the ratification of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. I held several meetings with the Speaker of the Senate during her visit to Kiev and during my visit to Strasbourg, and I am convinced that most of the Senate members support Ukraine. We thank our Dutch colleagues, and we are confident that we will soon have a final decision on the EU-Ukraine Agreement. Colleagues! Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the government. [[Applause]] And in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, we spend "hours of questions to the government" on Friday. And, as always, I remind you that first we give a speech to two ministers. Today, Igor Stepanovich Nasalik, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, as well as Justice Minister Pavel Dmitrovitch Petrenko and Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko will speak before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then half an hour of questions to the government, colleagues. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Igor Stepanovich Nasalik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u2	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Members of the government! And Henry Ford said in his own time, "Give me a powerful commercial, and I'll sell the bolts as a painkiller." So a distorted information space, which is in today's information space, of course, will create a distorted social opinion, a distorted social opinion will lead to action, and actions will always have the same consequences. Today, I want to stop at myths that consciously or unconsciously but persist in imposing on Ukrainian society. And myth number one. The Ministry of Energy and Power have done nothing to diversify the supply of anthracite coal from uncontrolled territory. You're offered four projects. These four projects are a scientific, technical, financial solution for our energy sources to diversify the supply of anthracite coal to Ukraine. Two of these decisions are implemented. Two are in the project for 2017. First, it is the transfer of two blocks, second and fifth, of the Dragon’s TES into a gas group of coals. Why these blocks? First of all, because they need minimum financial security. Second, there are already projects and state expertise, and the economy under this project is one million tons of coal. Project two, please. The second project refers to the Zaporozka AES line, the Kahovska AES. In just three months of project introduction, and the project will be introduced in September, the economy is 750,000 tons of coal. Third, please, project. The third project being implemented is the Ravenska AES, substation Kyivska PS 750. This project, which is active in Ukraine, has already enabled the diversification of 1 million 440,000 tons of anthracite coal. And I'm asking for a fourth project. The fourth project introduced this summer is block number 3, which is planned to complete block number 4 of the building on Dnistrovsky GAES. The economy of these two projects, the one that works, which will be introduced, is in order of 700,000 tons of coal. So in general, projects that have been introduced and introduced this year are able to save 3.5 million tons of anthracite coal, or 1.3 tons of supply coming from an uncontrolled zone. Myth number two. The ministry and government did not prepare for the heating season. In short, I have to say, 30 days goes by. The very method of preparing heat-generation stores provides for their stocks for a 30-day term. That is, there must be a religious disconnect in Ukraine today. What did the Ministry do? We haven't had one season, guys, we've had two hot seasons. And if you see the stress on the heat system in December, January and February, and the load from May to August, it was 10 to 15 percent higher as of winter. What was the explanation? It was primarily explained by (the next slide, please), that we came in May, and you see, the yellow ingredient in May, compared to the last year with the nine blocks of nuclear power plants, we had six blocks in repairs and emergency repairs. Thus, the heat station covered a base to be produced by the nuclear industry. But we have managed to unlock the agricultural part of the work of NAEC "Energot" and bring it into the mode that is necessary today. Please continue. You see the warehouses as they were changing, and you see the failed warehouses in the May months when you had to use the heat generation. Then, if these warehouses were to be filled. So we were able to get to the indicator and you see January - January 01, 2017 - by 2.2 million. So in the winter period, not only did we not operate a gas group of coal, but we filled the warehouse. And in January months, when an anthracite group was supposed to work, we didn't do it, but we did it the other way around. Change, please. Myth number three. The extraordinary measures in Ukraine have been put in place to disengage the faith. The introduction of extraordinary measures has to do with stabilizing the operation of a unified energy system and minimizing the vortex of disconnection. If you see it in the production structure, and the second graph shows it, then the main task of the emergency is to reduce the generation that works on the anthracite group. We've managed to reduce the generation from 36,000 tons of anthracite coal to 12 that are working today. And the contribution of the nuclear industry to the projected March balance is 59 percent. We couldn't contain it if we didn't have it developed and put it into a state-of-the-art operation of an atom. Myth number five. I don't want to discuss it, please trade it. It's called Rotterdam Plus. She needs much discussion. But you see on the graph, the lower graph, this is the price that the heat generation worked on. And I want to emphasize, this is the price that the tariff was calculated from. Up there is a graph called IP2 or Rotterdam Plus. If you look at these four months, you've produced 10 million tons of coal, or the amount that distinguishes between it and IP2 is 15 billion dollars. And to the end. Time is a very good arbitrator, and it puts everything in its place. On the other hand, time forgets pain and erases memories. I want to remind them. You see pictures, it's not Lviv and it's not Kiev. This is Donbas. Donetsk in March 2014, when hundreds of thousands of people came up with the idea that Ukraine was the only one. And it depends on our decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and how we look these people in the eye. Because I have no doubt that Ukraine will be restored, that borders will be restored, that we will be a great nation. But we'll do it for them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u3	Thank you. Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. The minister’s national MPs blocked the passage. Mr. Paul, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Today I have the honour to inform you of the previous achievements made by the Ministry of Justice last year in the field of human rights protection. Justice is justice, and justice must be for everyone. Unfortunately, for the past 25 years, the Ukrainian State has only declared protection and justice for everyone, especially for a weak person who has no opportunity to hire a lawyer and defend his rights. Since 2014, the Ministry of Justice has launched a new program. This was the National Project to build a system of free legal aid, legal aid for people who had no opportunity and no hope of protection. I'm talking about a particular person -- a young guy from Lviv County who was arrested in 2013 for petty theft. In a strange coincidence, after communicating with the investigators, he confessed something to a manslaughter. When our lawyers began to represent him in court and communicated with this boy, he confessed that he had been beaten and tortured in order to take on the actual crime of another person. This story ended well for this man because the Ukrainian court fully justified him. But there are many stories that end badly when the law enforcement system actually converts a person into a screw that is a statistic to confirm the illegal actions of an investigator or prosecutor. During the past year alone, our lawyers and lawyers have achieved six hundred convictions in criminal matters, 600 Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian fates that have not been broken. We've presented interests and helped 400,000 Ukrainians, these are pensioners, these are ATOs, these are invalids, these are orphans, these are people who don't have the money and the ability to hire a lawyer. The Justice Department team decided to abandon the Soviet justice system. We've eliminated 500 district administrations of justice, that's what was the base of every minister and the support of his seemingly conditional authority. Because as a minister, you had many subordinates in every area. When I asked the common people, "You know where the district justice offices are," no one at the reception could remember where these administrations of justice are. This means that these bureaucrats who worked there did not benefit the Ukrainians. So we eliminated the Soviet administrations of justice, transferred these funds to the Legal Aid Office. And last year an additional 500 law offices were opened. I want to thank the people's deputies in this room, the factions of the coalition, for their own thanks to the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, who, without being in the coalition, systematically supports our initiatives in the free legal aid system. For Ukrainians, it is now a reality that there is a lawyer and a lawyer in a small town, a village, and a village that protects everyone. Since the end of last year, every month 80,000 Ukrainians have turned to our legal aid office. At the end of last year, thanks to the position of the people’s deputies who supported our initiative, we expanded around those who have the right to help. These are members of the ATO, these are families of the dead, these are displaced persons and internally displaced persons, these are people who have a monthly income of less than two living minimums. In fact, the free legal aid system now covers several million Ukrainians. And these are the real steps, the real help of every Ukrainian who had never had a hope of protection or justice before. I believe that knowing about your right and protecting your right is a weapon that is stronger sometimes than a weapon of fire. Our task as Justice Department teams is to move to a new level, to inform and arm Ukrainians with knowledge of their right to communicate with an official, to talk to a judge, to talk to a prosecutor. So this year, we're initiating a national project called "I have the right," which is going to be doing educational work among Ukrainians on the rights guaranteed by law, on the Constitution that they are guaranteed from birth. And I appeal to all the national MPs: join this initiative together with the Ministry of Justice. We are actually supported by all civil society representatives, supported by our international partners. I want this project to be a national project, so that every Ukrainian has a very strong weapon -- knowledge of his right and the possibility of realizing that right. We, as the Ministry of Justice, will continue to speak with Ukrainian lawyers in communication with all government bodies, and we will protect every Ukrainian who has the right to such protection. There is also sad statistics. The 400,000 Ukrainians who got help from us are the people who couldn't get the truth in the Reich administrations, in the courts, in the prosecutors, in the police, in other government agencies. We appealed to our colleagues to eliminate such violations and to ensure that the state did not spend any money protecting the Ukrainian from its own public authorities. I want to thank in this direction the Ukrainian National Police, who went with us (the first, in fact, from the state authorities) and wrote a memorandum on the exchange of information on all the offences committed by the investigators concerning the Ukrainians who are being detained. This is a major step forward in order for Ukraine to become a disgraceful past of torture in the law enforcement agencies during the detention of Ukrainians. So, in summary, I would like to quote the words of the great President of the United States of the United States of the United States, who in 1961 said that "we're starting such a big deal not because they're easy, but because they're extremely difficult, but they're proud of the American nation." I want to rephrase that the Ukrainian government, the Ministry of Justice, the Ukrainian Parliament have started an extremely complex case -- that is, the restoration of affairs and justice among Ukrainian citizens, this is the development of a system of free legal aid that will protect every Ukrainian. This is a very difficult matter, but we started it because in the last 25 years the Ukrainians had neither hope nor the right nor the ability to defend themselves. So I am sure that we will be successful in this matter, because it will bring exactly the benefits and pride of the Ukrainian people. The second block, which is equally important, is, of course, the reform of the courts. Because it is in the courts that the Ukrainian can get justice. And in this part, I also appeal to the National Deputies to ensure that you exercise careful control over those new procedures that are currently under way, and we have every chance to get the new Supreme Court of Ukraine created soon under the new principles of publicity and transparency. Likewise, we all have every chance of getting a completely new set of appeals courts and local courts. I am addressing Ukrainian lawyers and lawyers from this rostrum. Don't stand back, don't think anyone will reform you and change this country. It's easier to be a wonderful expert than anything else, to advise and criticize as easily as possible. The country is in a situation where the actions of each, the responsible position of each expert, every citizen matters. That's why I'm asking you and calling you. Come to the contests, become judges, change the face of the judicial system, and ensure that a civilized face appears in the judicial system, not the lawlessness that has been in place for the past 25 years. For my part, I can testify once again that the Ministry of Justice will continue to work on the system of human rights protection, simplifying the lives of Ukrainians, communicating with government authorities, and returning to the wall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u5	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u6	And to return to the walls of state institutions of law, law and justice. Without this, the Ukrainian State will never be strong. And this is our joint task with you, my friends. All those who have been elected, all those who are now in executive power, have the task of creating a strong state where every Ukrainian will be protected. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u7	Heroic glory. Thank you, Pavel Dmitrovich. And the last statement from the government, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko. Viačeslav Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Andriu Parubai, Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government! A few words about the state of preparation for the Eurobating. On June 1, last year, the government issued an order to form an organ committee to hold a European song competition. On August 11th, an appropriate basic agreement was signed between the organizer language, then the NTCU and the European language community. On October 11th, the government adopted Decree No. 740, "Plan of measures to prepare for the implementation of the Eurowave." By the way, all measures are being taken, and most of the time, the deadlines are being followed. In this sense, the government is operating on a planned basis. On December 9, the Kyiv authorities issued an order to prepare for the European Song Competition. On December 10, 2016, the Act on Public Procurement, adopted by you, on the changes to Chapter XI, "The Final and Transitional Positions", on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to ensure the conduct of the Euro-Energy. On December 21, the government adopted a decree to enforce this law. We are constantly working with foreign experts. The preparation of the European Community provides for reconciliation of virtually all key issues with the European language community. So there are several leading foreign experts here on a permanent basis who are working with the National Social Broadcasting Team to prepare a Eurowave. Especially Stuart Barlow, producer show, and Ola Melzig, technical producer. We look forward to arriving in Ukraine as soon as possible in the coming days of other key members of the international Eurowave team. On January 30-31, Kiev held a meeting of the Supervisory Board of the European Language Society, which addressed all the key issues related to Ukraine's preparation of the European Song Competition, in particular the presentation of the design of the stage, the proposed candidates for the show, and presented for consideration of creative ideas, the concept of the show. On January 30, the Supervisory Board of the European Language Association approved an official logo based on the traditional Ukrainian necklace and slogan "Celebrate Diversity", which means "Celebrate Variety". On January 31, there was a transfer of symbolic keys from Stockholm to the city of Kiev. And these keys have practically marked, this ceremony marked the start of the public process of Ukraine's Eurocation 2017, which has finally become irreversible. On February 6, this year, the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Affairs approved the planned cost of preparing and conducting the Europending 2017 song competition. You know, honourable colleagues, that the government budget for 455 million dollars for the Eurovignette. 200 million dollars is provided by the city budget of Kiev. The European Language Association also joins, which allocates an order of 4.5 million euros. There are also substantial receipts from ticket sales, as well as the participation of sponsors in the various Euromaking measures. In any case, the policy of the government org committee, and the government org committee, under the authority of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groissman, the policy of the organ committee is to ensure that the policy of maximum costing of all jobs, services and goods is maintained during all procurement procedures. That's where the work is going to be. Also, on February 14, official ticket sales began. The first ticket, by the way, was bought by the winner of the 2004 Europravity, our world-renowned Russian. At 9 o’clock 30 minutes today, 14,000,951 tickets were sold for 52 countries worldwide, not just Europe. By contrast, 52 percent of tickets were purchased in Ukraine, i.e. by Ukrainian citizens, 48 percent of tickets were purchased abroad in these 52 countries. We expect a large number of foreign guests to arrive. Already, a large number of tickets have been purchased in Britain, Germany, Russia, by the way, and in other countries of Europe mainly. All aspects of the location and stay of Europlacing fans are given great attention, special attention is being given to security measures, and a special inter-agency task force is working on a planned approach at all planned Europlacing sites, and several of them are checking all safety regimes according to the highest world standards. I would like to point out that all of this is happening in close collaboration with experts from the European Language Society, both on security issues and on all other issues related to the organisation and the holding of the Euro-Employment Song Competition. Last night, the executive director of the Eurovision Song Competition, Jon Ola Sand, who is in Ukraine every week, has constructive production meetings at both national and social radio companies, and the State Television and Broadcasting Committee, as well as regular meetings at the government level to address any organizational or other issues that may arise in the process of preparing a song competition. I want to say that the preparations for the song competition are happening simultaneously with several other structurally important processes. And the first is that our formerly national television company in Ukraine is now transforming into a national social radio station. And at the same time, with the European Song Contest, all the necessary transformation processes are being carried out that are being maintained according to the timetable and the plan, and that is a matter of principle for both the government and our European partners. The government has approved the statute of NHRI, and the government has made all necessary changes to clearly identify the responsibility of the NHRI manager. This is now Hanna Ivanovna Bichk, on whom all the responsibilities are placed, including the provision of preparations for the Eurobending 2017 song competition. But also with regard to the activities of the television company during this transitional period. You know, there's been a show for the head of public broadcasting, and it's happening in parallel with the preparation for the European Song Contest. Our European partners understand this and celebrate the great and effective efforts of the public, the government, the government to provide both of these things with quality and the necessary time. I would also like to point out once again that all the issues of interaction with the European language community and with the managers of the European language community have been resolved, a final European team has been formed, its Ukrainian part. According to all the basic contracts, there is now recruitment of both foreign and Ukrainian professionals who will be working in the Directorate of Preparing and Performing the Euro2017 Song Competition, and this process is already over, and there are no complaints on this subject. A week ago, the Prime Minister of Ukraine had a conversation with the head of the European Language Society, Ingrid Deltenre, during which all the questions raised were discussed, which related to the ongoing preparations for the Euro-2017 event in Ukraine, and all the issues that could have been resolved by the European Language Society. I repeat, contact with our European friends takes place in a planned manner, and the plan of action, according to a government decree, is being implemented. And all of our liabilities between a language organizer, which is NTU and the European language community, are also maintained and fulfilled. In view of all of this, as well as all the necessary funds, for all government decisions to be taken, as well as all the necessary decisions at the level of Kiev, I would like to assure you, the honourable national deputies, and our European friends, that Ukraine will conduct the European Europe at a high organizational and meaningful level. And just like in 2005, when Ukraine first conducted Eurobating, in 2017 we will do the same Eurobating, which will be the best-trained competition in many decades of European language history and Eurobending. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u9	Heroic glory! Thank you, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the questions of the people's deputies to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to remind you, it's not the factions, it's the national MPs, and I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. One minute is given for questions and two minutes for answers. So, colleagues, please record a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please. Please turn on the microphone, Denisova Ludmila Leontievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u10	The word is rendered Teteruku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u11	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! This year we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the creation of the National Space Agency of Ukraine. According to Ukrainian legislation, we should assign managers there and businesses to the contest. According to the decrees taken by Kabmin, there are now responsibilities in office. I would like you to appreciate the work of performing duties, or are you satisfied with the implementation of the space programs approved by law? And what are we going to do with this shameful situation in the space field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u12	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u13	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Your Majesty, Mr. Andrey! Dear fellow national MPs! We have plans to evaluate the work of the National Space Agency, we've talked to you about this a number of times. We've been looking at this issue for the past week with the participation of the First Deputy Prime Minister, who's been assigned to listen to all the leaders in the field in the coming weeks, and I've listened to them before the new year, you know that. But what I want to stress is that the situation there is complex and, in our view, requires a sufficiently systematic approach. So the question of the space agency is in the government's field of activity, and we're going to make organizational conclusions as soon as we get the summation of work after 2016. That's what you'll be informed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u14	Please complete your answer, yes. Next question, Irina Miroslavovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u15	My question will be addressed to Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I represent Volin, 23 constituency, and I want to ask you. Do you know about the lack of funding for the health sector in Volina? And that your good intentions to carry out important and progressive reforms are unfortunately being distorted. And the local authorities are turning these reforms into a banal reduction in medical institutions. And the second. I'm going to ask you very much that if you come on a visit to Volin, and I know what this is going to be like, please come and look, not at the pomocín villages that offer administration, but the real objects, the real state of affairs that is on Volin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u16	Thank you very much, madame national deputy of Ukraine. You call me one of the Potomkin villages I'm in. which I visited during my work trips to the regions of Ukraine. The health system is very important and key; it is a challenging reform that will always have both adherents and people who will categorically deny it. There is no goal of reforming the reduction of the number of hospitals. The priority and purpose of the reform is that Ukrainian citizens should live 7 years longer than they live today. And that must be the basis and purpose of our reform. In fact, the creation of hospital districts is a matter of local authority that they have to decide, including the specifics of a particular region. I am convinced that the reform should result in the creation of a single network of medical facilities where Ukrainian citizens will receive high-quality medical care. If we're talking about the need for a level two hospital in each resort, it's unlikely that this hospital will be professionally quality. We need to get a person to a hospital or an emergency hospital, or a planned one, and to receive high - quality second - level assistance. You know, in the third level regions in the district hospitals, not everyone does. For example, operational interventions, because some of them are made in Kiev, in specialized institutions, and make them of the right quality. And a person is forced, for example, to go to the institute from Volina to go to Kiev in order to be operated on. As far as the primary chain of medicine is concerned, it needs to be as close to the human body as possible, disease prevention, timely disease detection is an important element of the primary chain of medicine. In addition, the government is taking measures and other measures. Like the deregulation of medicines prices to make them more accessible, and in March we report this work. Since April 1, we've been running real reimbursing -- cost-free compensation. compensation for the cost of medicines for chronically ill people, such as cardio, for hypertensive disease. This will mean that Ukrainians who are chronically ill will receive free medication according to the doctor’s prescription. In addition, at a previous meeting of the government, we have decided to create more than a dozen centres of cardiovascular surgery with appropriate agriographic equipment to stop the absolutely negative phenomenon when Ukrainians die today, and the leadership in these diseases, which lead to death, takes on cardiovascular disease. This will give us an opportunity, and we believe that 3,000 people will reduce mortality in Ukraine, save the lives of 3,000 Ukrainians every year. And we take care of it and we deal with it. We will also propose a change in the health funding system. You know, we've taken the first step towards raising the wages of Ukrainian doctors. This is a whole set of steps that should lead us together, in cooperation with local authorities, to a quality health system. We will certainly go out with legislative initiatives where we need parliamentary support, consult with you, and listen to the opinions of most of the Ukrainian Parliament. But I would like our goal in this reform to be to create a quality health system, not a populism that over the decades has destroyed the health care that has been created over many, many decades. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u17	Please ask me a question from the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I have a question directly to the Minister of Finance, Alexander Alexandrovich Danieluk, because yesterday there was not a very clear situation in the Supreme Council Hall. Because of your personal position, Bill No. 9 of Law No. 0940 was broken. It deals with the resolution of the financing of local budgets. All amounts of overpayments of local taxes are subject to reimbursement from local budgets. The tax collectors are now turning to the courts and receiving a positive ruling from the courts and making these decisions. This relates to the land tax, which relates to the real estate tax. Amendment No.9, which was put to the vote here by some factions and your positions that did not support this amendment, there is a situation that has not changed. The draft proposed that overpayments should not be recovered from local budgets. You're like the Minister of Finance, who. have not supported this amendment, comment. Have you provided sufficient financial resources for the local budget of Donetsk and Lugansk to recover the overpayments to be made by taxpayers since 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u19	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Yesterday you came to me with the same question, and I already gave you the answer. Now I want to make it public. My position was about 10 revisions, not 9ths, and you know that very well. The 9th amendment was put to the vote by the Supreme Council and was not supported. My position: 9 revisions had to be supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] We need to settle this right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was talking about 10 revisions exclusively. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nina Petrovna, it's very bad to hear you. Maybe the microphone's on right now. That's it. I think it's necessary now. I understand the necessity. The position of the Ministry of Finance needs to be addressed. [[B in m in s a l in]] If a similar bill is needed, we will submit it soon. I just need to be a little more careful with the paperwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u21	Please ask the following question from the People’s Deputy Shippe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u22	Good afternoon. I have a question for Mr. Linchevsky's deputy minister. You know that by order of the Ministry of Health, when the list of rare orphan diseases is approved, the MOH is obliged to provide an annual review of this list. If necessary, make changes. According to the information I have received, this committee did not gather for a year and a half, but the new rare orphan diseases, discovered in 2015-16, were not introduced. For example, Kodana’s syndrome takes 300,000 dollars a month to stop the progression of this disease. Please explain to the Ukrainians why the commission did not meet, why did the Orphan Diseases not be examined, and when the Ukrainians will receive treatment guaranteed by the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u23	Thank you. In fact, there is a problem of rare diseases, rare diseases, without specific treatment, these patients have no chance of life. A list of rare orphan diseases, orthodontics, are called orthodontics, because they are disease without a doctor, disease without proper care, these patients who are unknown to the general public, who are not known by doctors who are essentially left alone. Ukraine has a list of orthodontic diseases and is being examined. Today, the Ministry has set up a group of experts to list, there is really already an introduction to the list of orthodontic diseases not only of the pathology you are talking about, but also of tuberculosis sclerosis and other diseases, of various musculoskeletal disorders. This year, we're talking about almost 100 percent provision of essential medicines to patients with orthodontic diseases through purchases by international organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, next question from Irina Friz. Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u25	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u26	Please turn the microphone on for Maxime Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, tax police. Vladimir Borisovich, the situation requires your special attention and personal intervention. In December, the Ukrainian Parliament voted in favour of the cessation of tax police activities since the formation of a new body, the Financial Investigation Service. The technical error of Minfin led to a technical malfunction in numerology during the drafting of the bill. This gave some of the characters reason for manipulating the subject. Parliament tried to help Minfin fix this situation, but yesterday's position as finance minister shocked many in this room. The point is, the minister would have to know that law, coercion and finance are the main instruments of government, and he is in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u28	Give me 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u30	And he's actually proposing to remove the body that's forcing law enforcement and budgeting. At least it's not competent, I'm not even afraid to think about it. The fact is that such statements by the finance minister actually encourage the shadow economy. Honorable colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, may not even have imagined how much criminal authority would pay for the elimination of a criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u31	Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u32	No matter how much you pay for breaking the law for eliminating the criminal investigation. And here the inventors, the corrupters, the profiteers and the robbers of the budget, the country can sleep peacefully for twenty - five years. The principle of public authorities should not be violated. One principle of government is continuity. This threatens the national interests of Ukraine. Volodymyr Borisovich, I very much ask you to intervene in this situation and not allow ministers to use Parliament to make their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u33	Thank you, thank you, dear fellow national MP. I know there was a discussion here yesterday that was hot enough, but I think that the inadmissibility must be sustained from the point of view of government members, to take a more tolerant position. And here I have no doubt about the Ukrainian Parliament. We are accountable and accountable to the Ukrainian Parliament, and every minister has to understand that. As far as the subject is concerned. As far as the subject is concerned. You know, what happened happened happened, and it's clear that we need to correct that question. There are two ways that we need to fix this: maybe we can restore the work of the tax police and leave everything, in principle, as it was before. But I think it's possible to take a more progressive step: to form a single service, the Financial Investigation Service of Ukraine, which will be a civilised service of quality. And here I want to go to the real sector of the economy and the business. Friends, I get tens and hundreds of complaints from the tax police, the letters from the Ukrainian Security Service and the K Department, the letter from the IMF Economics Service, from some other monitoring bodies. So I want to tell you that on the first approximation of 80 percent, I can view this as a real pressure on the real sector and the business. And we have to fight with you to ensure the economic growth of our country. And what we have achieved with you, thanks to our fruitful interaction, thanks to the full coordination of our efforts by Parliament, President and Government, we have resumed our economic growth in 2016. Clearly, and here I want to give due and due to the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, many unpopular things have been done that have led to a halt in the fall, and we have already taken this estaphet to economic growth. So our task is not just to create an economic and investment climate, but to create tools where business is protected. They're turning these controllers into racketeers. And I think that's the main question that we have to answer with you in the Ukrainian Parliament. So I would very much ask you to come together for the next non-plenary week and determine what we're doing and what's the deadline. If the restoration is to be made, the restoration is to be made. It can't be infinite -- a system of pressure on business from any control body. And I think our task with you is to make this system absolutely transparent, qualitative and effective. Corruptionrs, money launderers, those who make conversion centers, must be put in prison. And 99 percent of the Ukrainian business that works honestly, we have to carry them on our hands. And I'm asking for your support in this. Thank you, fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u34	Thank you. Skork gives the word for the question to Igor Shurma. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u35	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a personal question for you. Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. Although you have not studied in medical school, you have no medical education, but you have mastered medical problems so well, where there has been no minister for nine months now, you would have come out of a good answering minister. Think about the possibility, maybe you could take the lead, I think everyone would be happy. Now the question is essentially what you don't know. At the last meeting of the Health Committee, the Ministry’s work was found to be unsatisfactory in part of international procurement. I want to tell you the truth, and that's behind the signature. To date, only 8 percent of the 4 billion dollars in 2016 have gone to the hospital. There's no medicine. But the minister said that all the money went abroad, they were in banks, and they accounted for interest. People go to the hospital and because they don't have drugs, they die, and they make a percentage. Do you know what banks our money is in abroad and what percentages they make when they're not in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. I worked as a city mayor before I came to work, and I know what a medical facility is, and I know what a tough reform was in 2011-2013. For us, it is important that the reform we are carrying out be quality. And it doesn't have to be over-politicized today, it's always politics. But there are functions of Parliament, there are functions of the Ministry of Health, and there is simply a need to unite them. So you're legislatively defining the rules, we have to do them, but together, we have to find a common understanding of how to form a regulatory framework. And we're going to prepare an international purchase report for you, and in these international purchases, you're going to see everything that's already been purchased, everything that's been purchased. There's a lot of information that contradicts each other. But there are actually very clear figures, which are figures that we can assume have already been able to provide, what else has to be compensated? But we plan to start buying drugs in March, April 2017. You're talking about inefficiency, buying international organizations. I want to tell you that, so far, when there were no international organizations, it was a totally corrupt, shut-down dining room and fought for the Ministry of Health, not to make changes in the health system, but to take control of public procurement. So what I'm saying is that it's probably better to hand over these purchases to international organizations that are recognized by the whole world so that there's no human being in our country trying somehow to take hundreds of millions, and sometimes billions, of money that's been spent on drugs. Medicinal products should be purchased at good quality, competitive prices, and should serve the health of Ukrainian citizens rather than be the breadwinner of Ukrainian corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u37	Thank you. Welcome to Dmitry Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u38	Dmitri Dobrodomov, National Control political party. Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! As far as medical matters go, I want to say that you said very correctly that corruption had gone from Ukraine, but it had nothing to do with it. Thanks to these international purchases, it has moved abroad, and now these corrupts, who were deputy ministers, have led an international pharmaceutical mafia, and this corruption is happening internationally. But I have a question for the First Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Coal Industry and Energy. You know, in my constituency, it's a mining area, two investment projects that can't be implemented for two years at the top of the Cabinet of Ministers. The first investment project is the Lovelska Coal Mine, a coking coal that is not being shipped anywhere in Ukraine and imported from occupied areas. Absolutely proved, all international audits have been carried out. Why there is no government decision to date on the construction and construction of the Ljubljana Mine, which will give us five.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u40	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u41	Five thousand jobs. Another investment project for these six mines that work in my district, for the construction of an oil refinery, and for the processing of coal for Ukrainian technology supported by the Academy of Sciences. Is this project under consideration, and when will it be considered? Please, two investment projects for almost 10,000 jobs ready, why is the government delaying with them?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. The love mine you're talking about, it didn't start there, it just started projects, it's just the amount of work on this mine, it's 2.5 billion dollars to run it in general. In the case of active mines, it should be said that the government has allocated a billion dollars this year to provide technical restocking of mines. The first 300 million even have been distributed, but under the supervision of public organizations and the ProZorro tender. There's already been an allocation of funds for Lumber Coal. And the first two lavas virtually after a month-and-a-half will be put into operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u43	Please give us the next question from Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u45	Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Maxim Burbak, People's Front, 204 constituency. Of course, everyone has seen the success of the decentralization reform, and I remind you that it started, and we're with you from the budgetary decentralization in the government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk. And we know that it's the second year that local budgets are overturned. All of us remember the opposition that the local princes were doing in places, and now the second one is coming. The next step is to create a hospital district. A rally is called, people are fed by numerous fairies, and sometimes by outright lying. Volodymyr Borisovich, please tell me clearly whether the district hospitals will be closed. One. And will there be increased funding for the hospital centers this year? Because I want to remind you, the town of Chernivci is the only district center that doesn't have one. An angiographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u47	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. In fact, we started the process of decentralization with you, working in the first government, after the Dignity Revolution. And now it's going to be April 1st three years, as we adopted the concept. A strategy for developing local self-government, decentralization of power in Ukraine. Please remember, my friends, in 2015 we adopted legislation on financial decentralization with you for the first time. For the first three months, we were furious and personally criticized and destroyed in the fact that we had broken the financial system, and the local budgets would now be on the verge of survival. Three months later, we began implementing and renovating local budgets, and local budgets began to grow, and in 2015 and 2016 we began to grow. This means that in 2016 alone local budgets increased by 50 billion dollars. As of 2017, esteemed colleagues, local budgets will grow by another 25 percent. This means that this is a completely professional and qualitative reform. We began to lay the foundation with you so that the weak communities could unite and become strong. And there's almost 400 of these communities. These communities increased their budgets three, five, and seven times. We've delegated authority to places, and that means that there are enough responsibilities on the ground today that will allow for the development of communities. Roads, hospitals, gardens, urban and public space, culture, sport -- everything can be covered by quality work and quality services. Now with regard to health care. In fact, we need to form strong health institutions. People have to get quality, especially secondary, medical services. Well, people can't die of unskilled actions, like the surgeon in the hospital where the surgeon came to operate, and he's operating, he doesn't practice all the time. The surgeon has as much as the pilot, has to have the corresponding number of operations that he performed in order to do his job in a quality manner, and a person gets a quick recovery. We need to concentrate on the best equipment in these hospitals. We have to ensure, including a change in the funding system, that the patient chooses where he goes and where he gets quality services, and the state pays. It's a big set of questions, but it takes a Ukrainian citizen to win. I emphasize that injustice is huge when Ukrainian citizens live 7 years less than our neighbours who live in the European Union. We still haven't found the depth of the technology penetration that is already in Europe in almost every community, yet we don't have it in the district centers. Now, you've just mentioned the angiographer and those cities, including the Chernovians, where there's no such equipment, this year they're going to get this equipment, they're going to treat people, they're going to save lives, and everything is going to be perfectly normal, and Ternopil gets, and no cities. It's only about having us with you, with the local authorities to form such medical districts to be effective, that the result will be exactly the same as decentralization. You'll see, a doctor who gets a decent salary, you'll see the quality of the operating rooms, the quality of the rooms, the quality of the living conditions, there'll be people. You will see a rapid recovery and the hospital period will be very small to provide quality services. And you will see that we will reduce both mortality and disability and increase life expectancy, life expectancy for Ukrainian citizens. This is the goal of reform, and I would very much like it not to be held hostage to political games in pain and on the lives of people. So we're going to provide leadership on this issue, we're going to listen to Ukrainian citizens in order to bring them closer to quality medical care. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u48	Colleagues, therefore, last question. We have one minute left. He gives the word Doubenko to Anatoly Matvienko. And please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u49	I have a question for the Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy. Vladimir Borisovich, we support you in finding the right solutions and correcting policies, and the desire to live, not as you once did, but to change the situation. But I want to ask you something else. We have investment policies that build not one year, but we have annual budgets for one year. December of the month, we always have 30-40 billion refueling of the economy, and that's an increase in inflation. We need, and we support the transition to indicative planning for 3 years, and we need to put in place the principle of transitional budgets if there are force majeure conditions for one or the other objects. Otherwise we just bury the money in the sand. And a question to Mineneergetics. We're interested in your personnel policy, Mr. Minister. Youth is good, but is there experience in those whom you appoint? And there's a lot of talk today about Boyko Natalka's next assignment. Chi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u50	Thank you for asking, Anatoly Sergeiovich. Obviously, any explanation I give right now would be unobjective. And so, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like, on this point, to appoint Deputy Natalia Boyko, Deputy for Eurointegration, to respond to Alexander Ryabchin, a national deputy working in a fuel-energy complex. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u51	Hello, colleagues. It's an hour of questions to the government. What ministry do you represent? Give him his word? Vladimir Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u52	Thank you. I wanted to answer the very right question that Anatoly Sergiyovich asked about midterm planning. There are a few important things I'd like to inform the people's deputies. First of all, we've recently adopted a medium-term public finance strategy in the government. Moreover, we are now drafting a budget resolution that will provide for three-year budget planning. The only thing we would ask in this case is for us to change the terms of this. Resolutions because it needs serious fundamental work. The resolution for one year is, of course, the terms provided for in the Budget Code. For three years, it's a fundamental work that we're going to present to you together. I think it's going to be much more useful for the state and to understand where we're going. In addition, your honorary colleagues, the government is about to complete its work today, and we've discussed it for the part of the profile committees, including the midterm plan of action by the 20th year of the government for the development of Ukraine. And we would also ask you very carefully to work with this document, because we will be going out soon for its approval. We're discussing today with the public and the expert environment, but your position here is very important. We have the position of some parliamentary committees, but the position of deputies is also important to us. So today we are working very hard to make predictions and to understand where we're going with you and what results we're going to get. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Final question. FROLOW MIKOLLA ALEXANDROVICH. It wasn't your last name. [[B in m in s a l in]] Another name was given. I've made it clear. So Froll's Mikola Alexanderovich. And that's where we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I have a letter from the inhabitants of Zaporozhye. We ask you very much to set up an appropriate commission to consider the issue of permanent opposition between the inhabitants of Zaporozhye and the cover, a local cover-up. It's like crossing every border. During the winter, residents of the apartment buildings Hortický, Austenowski, Zadniewski, Dniprovsky, and other areas of the town of Zaporozhye have been shut down. People in the fire near the houses are preparing food. Local authorities have moved away from this issue or appear to be interfering. I think we need to deal with this lie, look at the form of its property, or see if it's legal, look at the existing legal framework. Because the question about the numerators is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u55	Colleagues, 30 seconds, Rybchin. 30 seconds. And, colleagues, we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u56	Mr. Secretary, I understand that you have addressed me as a constructive pro-European position on your own appointment. Here people have come, asked how you can appoint your people to your ministry. But I can say that Mrs. Natalie I know as a member of the positive side committee, especially of the things that I'm busy with energy efficiency, energy conservation. Most of this candidature would point to the problem of sexism, which is in our parliament, in our government and here, and to my colleague Shkrum, and to Julia Timoshenko, and to Kugel, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u57	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u58	The same is true of the young reformers who are being appointed. I really want Mrs. Natalie Boyko not to be attached to any corruption that is in the government, she was solving problems that will solve people's problems, not tariff problems, not the Rotterdam Plus problem, not the other problems that are in this government. So I can only wish her success.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u60	Thank you. Honourable Alexei Rybchin called himself a European opposition. I always say that the European opposition should be telling the truth, and here we are being accused of what we are not guilty of. What kind of sexism in the Ukrainian government? Who has seen such acts in the Ukrainian government, please say? We have to look at how beautiful the government is, and you're talking about sexism. That's unacceptable. So please, if you're called an opposition, tell the truth, or we'll get so used to you accusing us of anything that doesn't fit the reality. Dear friends, dear fellow national MPs, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, the government would like to thank you for our fruitful engagement and to say the following in Zaporozhye. As far as Zaporozhye is concerned, I'm going to give a task to the Prime Minister today. And together with you, we're going to think about who to include in this committee, and we're going to do everything we can to put order into this. I don't know the nuances of this case, but what you're saying is that people don't have gas, it's totally unacceptable. Therefore, we always stand in the interests of others and find the right solutions. Dear friends, once again let me thank you on behalf of the government for your constructive cooperation, for your questions. And we're always ready for a constructive interaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u61	Vladimir Borisovich, one more minute. My colleagues, I would also like to respond to yesterday’s situation. And what I'm saying is, one of the prerequisites for our success was that a structured dialogue at the bottom horizontal level is that ministers work with committees. And the interaction between government and parliament must be at a high level. And I think that the discussions that are going on are supposed to take place on the committees during professional meetings, not right here in the hall, when the question is put into the order of the day session. And I hope, on my part, I will do the maximum work to make it happen, a committee-level discussion. And I hope you'll talk to the ministers so that the debates will take place on the committees, and we'll go into the room with the only agreed position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council. We will especially consider your comments in our work today. But I'm always as Prime Minister and I'm setting up ministers to work with people's deputies on committees before even taking legislative initiatives so that we can work together on a decision. And I would also like to say that the government sent a 2016 report to Parliament in time. We sent him over, we want to discuss him with all the committees of the Ukrainian Parliament, with the people's deputies. We want your comments and your recommendations. So I would like to invite you once again to work together on the 2016 government activity report. Thank you and wish you success.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u63	Thank you. We thank all members of the government for participating in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Colleagues, we have now received a statement from two factions: the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block for a recess. But they're ready to replace the break with a speech. And I invite you to Mr. Krivenk's address. Please, three minutes from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u64	Dear Ukrainians, I invite you to join the presentation with the active and former members of the Ukrainian People's Movement, many more of them in the audience. Unfortunately, not everyone is in the hall today who has been able to join. More than 300 national deputies were signed under a request from the Attorney General to investigate the murder of Chernobyl. Three years ago, after the victory of the Dignity Revolution, the Court of Appeal reversed the closure of a case that seemed to have been written as suicide. No one responsible for the length of time, no one is punished, and for 3 years nothing is investigated. The absence of punishment for the murder of Cranwall also led to Gongadze’s case, leading to the impunity of the executioners and the murder of the heroes of Heaven’s Hundreds. There are only five criminal conducts in the files that are not investigated, experts who have signed the findings of an expert and testify that they have not even seen the body. Nothing's being investigated. The material clearly shows how caste was obtained. These materials aren't joined or investigated by the court, you can see how the pillow was pulled out in the new Toyota, in the new car. It's not being investigated either. Unpunished evil regenerates itself. And our distinguished Attorney General quotes this in his book "On both sides of the barbed wire," which is what Lena Kostenko said. We demand the punishment, as a minimum, of the perpetrators and of these false experts and the recognition of this fact of the murder of Hero of the Ukraine of Chernobyl, not of an accidental accident. I want to thank everyone without exception to the factions of Parliament, there is no faction to sign this statement, to all groups of parliament, to non-fractional MPs, because it is the will of the Ukrainian people. For the first time, as I was informed in the Apparatus, a constitutional majority, more than 300 votes, were collected on request from the Attorney General. I want to thank all the motorists who are now present and present in various ways for helping to collect these signatures. Thank the Head of Parliament, Mr. Paris, the First Vice-Speaker, the leaders of all, the leaders of the four factions that have signed, and all, more than 300 people's deputies. And we ask the Attorney General to take this matter under personal control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u65	Thank you, colleagues. According to the Rules, we now have time to make inquiries. The number of requests that came into the Presidency is quite high - 245. And I invite you to read out the parliamentary questions of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Andrey, for this. Dear colleagues, we have 245 parliamentary requests, registered, to be announced in accordance with the Rules. And there are several parliamentary requests to the address of the President of Ukraine that need to be voted on by name. So the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies. Sergei Eutuska to the President of Ukraine on the need to implement articles 94 and 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution. I'm asking for your support, now for your vote. Please be supportive. [[11:21:35]] For-54 54 national deputies, and it takes 150, support, so they didn't make it, so they didn't make it, 100 deputies didn't make it. A group of national deputies (Sustlow, Tvacuk and others, only 6) to the President of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of a prisoner of Ukraine, Chikosz Edward Pavlovich, and his transfer to Ukraine. I'm asking you, I'm putting this vote to support. Please vote. [[11:22:12]] For-66 66 national deputies, others have failed, so these questions are not supported today. I'm still going to read our colleagues' questions to other authorities. So Victor. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for operational treatment abroad in the city of Zitomir Sohalska Galina. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government for the provision of material assistance for the operations on the back of the village of Velika Kozar Romanovsky district, Bondarchuku Alexandre. Groups of National Deputies (Czekiti, Šinkovič and others, only 9) to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the repayment of creditors' debt for the reconstruction of the water management system and the treatment of the economic and household wastes of the city of Bijejka Odeska. Titany Ritchkowa to the Attorney General, head of the Security Service, head of the U.S.S.S. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of debt for the payment of a single social contribution by individual coal enterprises in the Volin region. Igor Goose to Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, on the question of the organization of burial in the Motherland of prominent Ukrainians buried abroad. Natalia Wessellova to the Prime Minister on the failure to implement the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Act and the need for an urgent establishment of a working group at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Julius Timoshenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on providing information on the quantification and personal composition of the coalition of the European Ukraine factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Groups of National Deputies (Jorinec, Lopushansky, others) to the head of the State Awards and Heraldics Commission on Support for the Candidate Wednesday of Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Victoria Ptašnik is in charge of the head of the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine, the Head of the State Television Committee and the Ukrainian Radio Broadcasting Committee for the conduct of the Euro-Magazine Song Competition. Alexander Dudenkova to the Cabinet of Ministers for information on the state of protection of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of internally displaced persons. Sergey Eutuska to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kirilenka, Minister of Education and Science on the disagreement between teaching staff of the Plains and the government's proposed changes in salaries. Natalia Wesselova, head of the State Fiscal Service, to provide information on the payment of taxes by enterprises located in the temporarily uncontrollable Ukraine of the Donetské and Lugansk regions. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of debts on wages in the city of Kharkiv and Kharkiv district - employees of enterprises that are part of the Ucroborprom State Concert. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State support for the construction sector of Ukraine and protection of the constitutional right of citizens to housing. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2017 for the construction of a housing building in the city of Trostyanec Sumska District for the purpose of providing housing for participants in the ATO and their families. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the State Budget for 2017 for the immediate capital repair or construction of a new bridge across the Vorskla River in the village of Klimentovo Ohtyr district of the Sumi district. Groups of National Deputies (Lopusian, Dobrodomov, only four) to the Prime Minister on changing the conditions of pay for work in the institutions and organizations of the settlements in the areas to which mountain status is granted. John Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure for the provision of disabled persons with reduced physical capacity (in wheelchairs) with special equipment for transportation. John Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Pension Fund, the General Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Vinnitsky region for the realization of the right of citizens to adequate pensions. Alexander Kirsza to the minister of ecology and natural resources for illegal logging in Kharkiv in the village of the village of Petihatka. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the functioning of the Kurné School of Public Education in the Pulín district of Žitomir Region. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the immediate capital repair of the road bridge. Jury Solovya to the Minister of Education and Science, head of the Johno-Frankow District State Administration, for providing information on the creation of resilient schools and the planned amount of funding to secure their material and technical base. Yuri Solova to the Minister of Agriculture and Food for the Promotion of Animal Development in Mountain Settlements on the basis of the budget programme “State Support for the Animal Sector. ” Oksana Jurinec to the Prime Minister, head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on ensuring the rule of law in the state and non-admission on the part of the authorities of the state. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the legal and regulatory mechanism for defining the boundaries and number of hospital districts. Savchenko's hopes for the Minister of Defense, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for providing information on the number and total amounts spent on the repair of firearms, ammunition and the production of the FORT Casino Science and Production Unit. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister for the development of draft legal acts in the field of water of natural mineral and the order in which water is determined by natural mineral food. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister for the establishment of reasonable tariffs for housing and utility services and for the accounting of subsidies that take account of consumer property. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on changes to certain legislative acts developed by the National Police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including the Ukrainian National Police Act. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the changes developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to the National Police Act. Natalia Wesselova, head of the State Fiscal Service, to provide information on the number of enterprises operating in the temporarily uncontrollable Ukraine of the Donetské and Lugansk regions and to pay taxes. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the mass layoffs of health workers that took place as a result of the adoption, in violation of the Rules, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order on the approval of the standard of hospital bed security for the population of 10,000" No. 1024 of 25 November 2015. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inactivity of the Ministry of Health after the adoption and approval of the National Cancer Programme for 2017-2021. Michael Bondar to the head of the State Security Service of Ukraine for the absence of a general bus route for the general use of Ternopil Brody. Michael Bondar to the head of the Kamyanka-Buzka District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Brodov District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Radehov District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Bus District Council of the Lviv Region for details of the work carried out in the areas of discussion and establishment of the hospital districts. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, First Deputy Chief of Roads Service in Kiev for the use of measures to finance the repair of the R-04 road (Pastów bypass), R-19 (Fastovec), Fastov Kožanka road and roads in the village of Malopolovetske Fastovice district of Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Director of the Independent Department of the National Energy Inspectorate of the NEC "Ukrenergo", Head of State Energy Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Public Shareholder Society of Kyivoblanergo, on the implementation of transparent policy measures for the provision of electricity services. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in social standards for the use of residential services for which the State grants subsidies. Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the illegal removal of trash from the city of Lviv to the garbage dumps of other cities. Alexander Guerrega to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKH of Ukraine, for the transfer of tax buildings of the Colossus Society in residence in the Charvechsky Rural Council of the Hmelnick district of Hmeljna Region. Alexander Guerrega to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the State-owned Occupational Career in the village of the occupied Chemerovetsk district of the Hmeljna district, concerning the transfer to the lease of the entire property complex of the enterprise to other persons. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Hmelnick district government administration, head of the Hmelnicka District Council for the provision of insulin for diabetics and glucometers in the Polonian, Shepetov and Slavutski regions of the Hmelnicka region. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to cover the budget deficit on salary for health care workers in the Shepetov district of Hmelnick. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the support of investment projects and programmes in the territory of Biloczerkowsk, Voddarski, Skirski, Tetijev region of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of a sanitary car for the increased passage of the Tetian District Center of Primary Health Care. Irina Konstankevich to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for shortening at Kolkow Hospital in Volinsk Region. Irina Konstankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the pay of non-pedagogical staff in colleges, vocational and technical institutions. Olesia Long to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the stability of the banking system and the restoration of lending to the economy. Olesia Long to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on improving Ukraine's social and economic development planning. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to meet the requirements of legislation for the protection of children in the war zone and children who have suffered as a result of armed conflict. Valery Davidenka to the head of the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations, head of the Montenegrin District Administration on the need to ensure the fire safety of some of Montenegro’s populated areas by equipping them with fire trucks. Alons Skrum to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financial performance reported in the progress report and the results of the programme of activities of the Ukrainian Cabinet in 2016. Michael Doubenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 98 of February 2, 2011. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunding of medical and educational subsidies from the State Budget in full. Maxim Burbak to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in terms of the purpose of increasing the night-to-night tariff for street lighting. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for ensuring the proper implementation by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 476 of 31 May 2012. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the establishment of a territorial service centre to provide services to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the city of Ovruki Žitomirsk. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for the improper execution of works from the capital repair of sports halls in the capital’s general educational institutions. Alexander Suprunenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation by the Attorney General of crimes committed against members of the Dignity Revolution. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of the legitimate business. Ruslana Knazević is headed by the Kyiv City State Administration to ensure the well-being and purposeful location of the suburban buses near the Akademistczko Metro Station of the Holy District of Kiev. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the head of the National Police Department in the Lviv region for the restoration of the work of the Vinnikov City Police Department. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District Council, head of the Lviv District Administration for the allocation of funds for the continuation of renovation and restoration work in the Pomorian Castle, located in the village of Pomorjana, Zoločov district of Lviv district. Alexander Nechayeva to the Sumskie City Head on improper control of the executive organs and officials of the Suma City Council for compliance with standards, standards, norms, regulations and regulations in the area of housing and utilities. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the financing of the reconstruction of the premises of the Nižinský Záš II-II district, was number 14 of the Chernigiv region with the aim of opening a preschool facility in the system of the educational complex of the general education school. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister to finance the completion of the reconstruction of the educational corps of the detached division of the National University of Bioresources and the use of Ukraine's Ninja Institute of Agricultural Engineering. Ruslana Demchak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Decision "On the List of Institutions and Institutions of Education, Health and Social Protection and the Offices at which Employment Grants the Right to Retirement for Years" No. 909 from 4 November 1993 and Instructions on how to calculate the salaries of educational workers. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of the mountain sports and health complex for students of children's youth sports school in the city of Dubrovic of the Plains region. Andrija Vadaturski to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on the need to stimulate the shipbuilding industry of Ukraine, develop the economic potential of river carriers under the flag of Ukraine, and accelerate the expansion of the institution of independent supervisory boards in all spheres of the economy. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil Regional Public Administration, acting as Head of the Director-General of the Open Shareholders Association of Ternopilloblanergo for the reconstruction of electricity networks. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Justice, on the verification of the circumstances of the raiding of the "Golden Potiecheke" PP in the Ternopil region and the involvement of guilty persons in criminal responsibility. Vassil Janicko to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, Miljach village head of the Dubrovnik Region, the first deputy head of the Dubrovnik District State Administration, the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Earlyoblanergo" to solve the issue of electrification in the village of Budiml Dubrovick district of the Plain region. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funds from the State budget for the Rokitni district of the Plain region. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for the financing of repairs and construction works of the Ust-Road-Patila-Jablunica District of Czernovets region. Mr. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Chernobyl Roads Service, on the allocation of funds for the development of project and cost-benefit documentation for the current mid-term repair of road T-26-01 Chernivci - Vashkovci - Putila - CAT "Rusca". Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for receiving funds for the payment of utilities and electricity to the Zacarpathian machine building technology. Dmitry Linka to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev for the protection of children's rights and freedoms under conditions of education in school and against the illegal activities of the principal of the secondary education school number 162 of Kiev. John Krulke is the director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Natural Persons on the need to protect the property rights of fraudulent investors at the PAT Bank of Krystátík. Sergia Alekseyev and Vasil Janicka to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, President of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat to resolve the issue of the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Varash Land. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Attorney General for ensuring a full, comprehensive and objective trial of the death of military officer Oleg Pohnczuk within a reasonable time frame. (To the Secretary of Defense) Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the payment of money to military service personnel under contract. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of Ukraine's energy system and on the warning of power cuts. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the approval of the mechanism for the provision of sanitary and veterinary care by veterans. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the Threat of the Humanitarian Disaster as a result of the possible closure of the National Institute of Phtysiatrics and Pulmonology of Janowski’s name. Alexander Brigintz to Prime Minister, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the threat of the closure of the Ukrainian Cultural Center in Simferopol. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kiev City Administration, head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Urban Construction, Architecture and Land Use to make changes to the project of the Detailed Area Plan within Perov Boulevard, the streets of Suleiman Staleski, Peter Vershigora, the prospectus of General Vatutin in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders' association "Ukrainian Railway" for the purpose of connecting Kharkiv-Odes through the stations of Sumi, Konotop, Kiev, Balta, Vradyivka, Pervomaysk. Stanislava Bereskin is the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Natural Persons on the illegal way of modifying the payment mechanism established by law to insolvent investors within the guaranteed amount by introducing a "temporary limitation". Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the use of measures to prevent the implementation of the project "Restructuring and Expansion of the National Cancer Institute". Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the National Agency for State Service, Head of the Government Pension Fund of Ukraine for the recalculation of previously appointed pensions to government officials. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the corruption of Poltava City Head Alexander Mamay in granting permission to place temporary facilities for the conduct of entrepreneurial activities in the central security zone within the historic and cultural protected territory of Poltava. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improvement of the military and patriotic upbringing of soldiers and young people based on Ukrainian traditions, the experience and customs of military formations that elected Ukraine's independence centuries ago and protected its territorial integrity in the war zone. Andrija Šinkovica to the head of the Hmelnick district government on the need for an immediate settlement of the housing issues of temporarily displaced citizens from the ATO. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the recalculation of pensions for former government officials. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of social finance in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Jacob Besbah to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the violation of the order of notarial action. Savchenko's hopes for the Director-General of the Ucroborprom State Concert for providing information on the number, total amounts, assortmental positions on contracts between Ukrainian companies - participants in the Ucroborprom DK and businesses and end-users of the Russian Federation in 2014-2016. Groups of National Deputies (Levika, Tvacuka and others) Total 3) to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the personal control of pretrial investigation of the removal of the effects of the Quarantine Mall accident and the violation of new criminal conduct on the abuse of a position of duty with a view to obtaining an unfair advantage. John Sporish is head of the Vinnick district government regarding the inclusion in the list of objects that will be offered by the district competition commission for funding at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund in 2017, the project "Reconstruction of the maternity ward of the Chargord Central District Hospital" of the Winnicki Region. John Sporish to the director of the Vynnické oblovtodore subsidiary regarding the setting up of bus stops near the village of Lipiuk and Jarisovka Tomaspilé district of Vinnitsky district. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health, to prevent the reduction of health standards in rural areas. Ostapa One to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the result of the project "Modernization of the Social Support System of the People of Ukraine". Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the current repair in 2017 of the R-28 "Zitomir-Ijdowovich" road. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return to the budget of the Main Village Council of illegally derecognised land taxes. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the Kharkiv District State Administration, on the issue of social adaptation and employment of ATO participants. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister for the involvement of additional investors for the construction of housing for military personnel. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the consideration of the proposals of the Dolin City Council of the Kirovograd Region regarding the settlement of the settlement of the settlement of accounts for central water supply services and the water supply of the city of Dolinska. Oleg Osuhovski to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for receiving and using the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine funds from the State Budget in 2014. Groups of National Deputies (Leshchenka, Musak and others, only 15, only 15) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible blocking of Ukrainian Security Service imports of compressed gas by Ukrainian importing companies. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the non-payment of debts from earnings by Kharkiv State Aviation Production Company. Alexander Villkull to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre for information on what the name of the city of Dnipro (Dnipropetrovsk) means in the State Register of Geographical Names and in connection with the failure to answer this question to MPs. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need to increase funding for education and science in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017 and to provide information on the number of persons who received a scholarship in 2016 and those who will receive a scholarship in the current year 2017. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for the restoration of financing for the construction of a residential building on the street of Gritsevits, 14 in the city of Kharkiv. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Finance for the adoption of the order for the monitoring of the purchase of government financial controls. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for changes to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of April 5, 2002, No. 321. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to increase social standards for housing subsidies. Alons Shkrum to head the National Service of Ukraine on the annual report of the National Agency of Ukraine on public service issues for 2016. Helen Sotnik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for non-recognition of documents issued by the DNR, LNR, so-called, in Ukraine and abroad. Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of death (death), the disability of militia personnel who have died or died has been disabled as a result of direct participation in the implementation of the ATO by March 12, 2015. Michael Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the protection of the violated rights of former WAT employees, Kremzvent. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food, for the transfer of the Ternopil Training and Training Union to the municipal property of the city of Kremenec of Ternopil. Igora Lapina to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, on the calculation of subsidies for the population. Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the presentation to the award of Neumivakin Dmitr Alexanderovich by the Order "For Courage" of Stage III (Death). Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Vinnick district government, head of the Vinnick district council for the establishment of hospital districts in the Vinnitsk region. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities in order to address the situation surrounding the process of pricing for electricity, which is used for the external lighting of populated areas. Mikoli Veliczovich to the Prime Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry for the Environmentally Safe Functioning of Petroleum Objects. Ljubomir Zubak to the head of the Lviv District Public Administration regarding the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual areas in the Lviv region. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for bringing the membership of the PAT Supervisory Board "PrivacyBank" into line with the requirements of effective legislation, one hundred percent of which is owned by the state. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Kyiv region, the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Kyiv region, the Chief State Inspector for Environmental Protection of the Kyiv region, on the use of measures to respond to complaints from residents of the village of Shevchenkov Brovarsky district, the Kyiv region on unauthorized waste management and other violations of Ukrainian waste legislation. Igora Artushenko to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the examination of the results of the briefing of the managers of the BSS and the GPA. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to a significant increase in passenger transport tariffs in urban, suburban and intercity transport in January-February 2017. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister on taking urgent action to preserve the unique archaeological monuments of tropical culture in the region of Cherkas, which are of global importance. Jury Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure that the parliamentary hearings are properly considered by the regional prosecutors. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of garbage disposal and the construction of a plant for the processing of solid household waste in the Mikolai district of Lviv district without the permission of the local community. Groups of National Deputies (Bathenka, Shevchenka, and others) In total, seven) to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the debt of electricity supplied from Ukraine to domestic and industrial consumers who are registered and resident in areas where the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their powers. Andrija Bielecki and Oleg Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of a State programme to regulate the number of homeless animals by humane means. Groups of people’s deputies (Dekhtirchuk, Barney, and others) A total of 13 colleagues) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extension of sanctions to individuals. Groups of people’s deputies (Dekhtirchuk, Barney, and others) 13) to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Authority on the effective enforcement by the Head of State of the powers established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Jury Levchenka to the head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine, in exceptional situations concerning the threat of life and health of people in the construction of the Obalonian Prospect and the streets of Heroov Dnipra in the Obalon district of Kiev. Jury Levchenk to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office for the non-reporting of information to the Single Register of Procurator-General of Ukraine, for the criminal offence committed by the City of Kiev, Vitaly Klick, foreshadowed in article 366/1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. People’s Deputies (Takkauka, Livika) A total of 4 colleagues) to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the provision of information on measures taken to ensure the control of the targeted use and protection of the land of state ownership. Anton Kisse until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to discuss the importance of establishing the census and the composition of the hospital districts in the southern districts of the Odessa region. Sergey Rybalka to the Minister of Interior, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional State Administration for the Restoration of Gas at the University of Dnipropetrov, University of State and Economic Affairs. Oleg Petrenko to the minister. to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on receiving information on detained Ukrainian fans of the Dynamo Kiev team on November 23, 2016 in Naples, Italy. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of information on the development and approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Hydropower Development Programme until 2026. Jurya Derevjanka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to provide information on the actual cost of buying coal for electricity and heat producers, as well as the cost of coal that was to be applied when calculating the projected wholesale electricity price for each quarter of 2016 on the basis of CNPRCRCRCR Regulation of 3 March 2016 No 289. Groups of National Deputies (Pobera, Soslova, and others) A total of 10 colleagues) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the personal control of pretrial investigation of the removal of the effects of the Quarantine Mall accident and the violation of new criminal conduct on the facts of abuse of duty with a view to obtaining an unfair advantage. Mikoli Kucher to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the change in the staffing of the Units of the Probation Authority of the Central-West Interregional Office for the Execution of Criminal Punishment and Probation of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Sergey Larina to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on an open-minded investigation into a crime committed in relation to a citizen of the Republic of Korea, Choi Young Gu. Edward Matviyczuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the objective review of the collective appeal of the residents of House 7-A on the street of Contre Admiral Lunal of Kyiv district of Odessa on the possibility and necessity of planning, for the first time in 40 years, the capital renovation of the building and the well-being of the apartment for the sake of adequate sanitation standards for safe living. Sergija Vlasenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the reasons for the refusal of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine to participate in the drafting of the bill on temporarily occupied territories by the working group of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Sergei Vlasenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on trade in occupied areas of Ukraine. Andrea Galchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the extremely unsatisfactory state of road coverage of the N-11 road. Robert Gorvato to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the provision of voluntary integration of rural communities, villages and cities with the status of mountain settlements. Groups of people’s deputies (Makaryan, Pober, and others) Total 11 colleagues) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the commissioning by officials of the OF DP "AMPU" of deliberate and deliberate violations of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, and to provide them with knowingly false information when admitted to the post of Chief of the OF DP "AMPU" Sokolov and Chief of Logistics and Processing of Lawrenuk's Automobile. Yurya Berezi to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the actions (inaction) of the police official inspector of the village of Bogdanovka in the district of Dnipropetrov. Jury of Bereza to the Head of the National Police Directorate in the Ivano-Frankow region for the conduct of the examination of the conduct of pretrial investigation bodies for the purpose of delaying, prejudice, negligence, inaction in criminal conduct brought to the Single Register of Trial Investigations Nos. 12509001000373 of 25 January 2015, No. 12015091002987 of 22 July 2015, No. 12015091003026 of 24 July 2015, No. 1201609001003978 of 6 September 2016 and No. 12015091003198 of 5 August 2015. Groups of National Deputies (Kryvenka, Kiskar, and others) A total of 301 people’s deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the long - term investigation of the tragic death of the prominent statesman of today’s Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola and Eugene Pavlov. Dear colleagues! I've finished reading the questions. I continue our current session for 15 minutes because, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if the national MP is not satisfied with the response to his parliamentary request and insists, according to article 226 of the Rules (Part One), he was entitled to the second part of the reply and to give an assessment of the unsatisfying answer, according to his opinion given by other authorities. Now we have a few such appeals from the national MPs who are not satisfied with the answers, and I give the floor to the national deputy Lechchenk Sergei. Please, Mr. Sergei. Then the national MP, Shinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u67	Good afternoon, Ukraine! In the fall of last year, I and my colleagues from the Euro Optimists group with Alexia Rybkin, Svetlana Zalitschuk accompanied a large delegation of MEPs from the British Parliament to the East. And in the course of the trip, we were in Bahmut, and we saw the conditions under which the Gorlov Institute of Foreign Languages now exists. To call it a disaster is, you know, a mild word. These people are just in inhuman conditions now trying to save the collective and the learning base that was evacuated from the ATO zone. And as the course of our meeting revealed, no funds were allocated for the restoration of their material and technical base. So they actually cost everything they had, they took it and they moved it, and now they're in a rented room, and they're given a dormitory that needs capital repair. What steps were possible on the part of the State? To support these patriots, who under extremely difficult conditions have done everything they can to preserve the collective, to preserve the teaching facility, to preserve the students in and continue the process with the city of Bahmut in the territory controlled by Ukraine. But it was found that no amount had been allocated to them by the State. I was sent to both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance. The answer is, "No money, come back later." Listen to the state we live in. Read electronic declarations, look at the world that surrounds us, in this country a lot of money, only they're stolen by corrupts. Look at our economy, at our state enterprises, at each of them there are viewers who, like the last cow, suckle them to get their pockets filled. Look at what's going on in a small, medium-sized business, suffocating it to be political monopolies, so that the oligarchs can keep filling their pockets. For the last two weeks, I've been working on the market for compressed gas. It's not on her head at all. We have 16 Ukrainian traders of private independent companies actually under sanctions imposed on them by the Ukrainian Security Service. The charges of financing terrorism, the companies of 3-4 months, they're laying low on the border, they can't get away with anything. Then there are answers that they appear to store some more toxic substances, and then it turns out that they're under the authority of the Ministry of Economics. It's only because we've made noises across the country in the rostrums of parliament, in meetings with Ukrainian government officials, that we've started to blur, but there's still a third of the companies that keep going. Part of it was released, part of it still suffers damage, and this is done by the hands of the Ukrainian Security Service, which cleanses the market under the Medvedchuk monopoly. It's a shame to say it in this room, but it's true that Medvedchuk wants to be a monopoly on the market for compressed gas in Ukraine. And only by public pressure can we stop it and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u68	Thank you. We have, I can't give, because I have a few more speeches. Excuse me, Mr. Sergei. Please, I'd like to invite National Deputy Shinkovitch Andry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u69	Honorable colleagues are national deputies, especially those who work with voters. I want to get your attention and call everyone, regardless of factions. If we don't make officials count with our parliamentary questions, unfortunately, the efficiency of our work won't be what our voters expect us to do. I am not satisfied with the answer to the MP’s request and all the work carried out by the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. You know what cynicism is? I would like to read literally a few sentences: "In accordance with article 16 on the basis of the legislation of Ukraine on health protection," writes Iv. Minister, – the network of public and municipal health institutions is being formed – listen, taking into account the needs of the population in health care, the need to ensure the proper quality of such services, timeliness, accessibility – this word has been written in response – accessibility for citizens, efficient use of material, labour, financial resources." And I think the Ministry of Health, it should probably hear what the population needs about what they wrote to me. The population doesn't want, there's no need for the population to shorten labs in rural health facilities, and there's no need to put a machine in this rural facility for express analysis. How can a medical worker make a decision about a disease? There's no need for the population to shorten the beds at the stations, that's not necessary. You wrote it, Your Honor! The population does not need to be reduced in rural areas of dentists, and believe me, they do not go there to bet, but an elderly person turns to a municipal dentist for pain when it comes to removing a sick tooth rather than putting on, sorry, the facades are right, yes. And this cancels out. There is no need for that. Minister, c.o. The minister probably doesn't know that. Today, in the centres of the united territorial communities, you have to leave your beds in order to get a little hospital treatment within a radius of plus-minus 30 kilometers. Yes, but to give a limited list of diseases, because the word "reform," unfortunately, is simply covering up the destruction of the system. The reform of medicine, the new medicine, it needs, we support the Prime Minister in his desire and in his introduction of the system. But she has to come in for a replacement. You can't take medical services today, you can't take it away from a person, you can't make a person who has nowhere to go to get this medical service, and you can tell her that one day it's going to be completely different, and one day it's going to be okay. I ask the Ministry of Health to hear and respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u70	Thank you, mate. Please also give the floor to national deputy Igor Shurma, who in advance submitted his statement to the secretariat that he was not satisfied with the answer. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u71	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I want to give you materials that show what a simple Ukrainian citizen can count on when he's in the fight against politics. I was asked a parliamentary inquiry into one of the company inspectors. The situation that took place as early as April 2016, when this police lieutenant unlawfully ordered a driver of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s autobase for violating the kind of rules. I stood up for the driver, because he did not violate the traffic rules, I witnessed it, and finally there were dozens of people who came to court later. The policeman acted presumptuously and prejudicedly. Finally, the Pecher district court in Kiev acknowledged that he had not only annulled the ruling but also declared it illegal. The man was paid a fine. When I was required to conduct a service investigation and to bring the police lieutenant to justice, I applied to the Ministry of Internal Affairs three times. At first, the National Police in general refused to conduct an official investigation into the court’s decision. And only after the MP's request to the minister of internal affairs did the investigation start, but the discipline was not imposed because the deadline had passed. In response to my last call, the National Police issued a copy of the official investigation into this person, and the next one indicated that a discipline could not be imposed if more than six months had passed since the date of the compromise. The representatives of the Police deliberately delayed the proceedings, wrote back, ignored the standards of effective legislation when considering my appeals and the request to avoid being called to account by a completely innocent person and to call their brothers to account. The official investigation was initiated two months after my first parliamentary appeal. Based on the testimony of witnesses who are interested in the matter and the inspector’s words, not taking into account all the circumstances and decisions of the court, the members of the commission failed to establish the full objectivity of the official investigation. By the way, at the request of the video fixation, it was said that they had been lost. The data contained in the conclusion of the service investigation is a slander of the honor and dignity of the national MP, which may be the basis for further my appeal to the court, which I will do if I do not put a dot. Please consider my statement as a matter of priority to the Minister of Internal Affairs and to form it accordingly. I'm talking to the Minister of Internal Affairs. If a national MP fails to get justice and bring a police officer to justice, what is the court’s decision, then what is it about ordinary citizens? I know Habakkuk personally. I do not believe that he knows the matter perfectly, and I believe that his integrity will make him point in this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u72	Thank you. Colleagues, we're going to have the opportunity right now after the 30-minute break to come out to all those who want the "Variance" section. And now I have some important announcements and I'm asking you to listen to them. Dear colleagues, yesterday we were emotionally discussing the issue of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Commission's external audit of the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. However, none of the two candidates offered support to the national deputies. I will remind you that a decision has been taken and voted in the session room, and the 273 people's deputies have voted in favour of this question. In this regard, I remind you of yesterday’s protocol decision on the preparation of the next-minute preparatory committee on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the External Oversight Commission for conducting an independent evaluation (audit) of the effectiveness of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine with a new nomination of candidates for review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're asking the profile committee to quickly go through this issue and carry out the task of the Supreme Council. Two more important announcements. Dear colleagues, according to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputies of Ukraine of Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich and Sapovalova Jurija Anatoliyovich into the parliamentary group "Party of Rebirth" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. More announcements, with your permission, colleagues. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of an interfractional MP 'Development of pipeline transport as protection of Ukraine's economic interests and control of external trade'. The national deputy of the Ukraine of Melniczuk, Sergey Petrovich, was elected leader of this association, the deputy head of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Leapina. Lapina Igor Aleksandrovič, Secretary of the People's Deputy of Ukraine Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Excuse me, Mr. Igor Lapin, that's a little too much. Accordingly, another announcement, pursuant to article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Parliamentary Platform for the Future Donbas" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine: Tarutu Sergija Alexiyovich, Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich, and Veselova Natalija Vasilovna. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes. And at 12:45, I invite all the deputies to return to the session room, and then there will be a recording and an opportunity to speak to the deputies under the heading "Variance." Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. We're starting our work. Please, colleagues, return to the session room, as we said, our break is over at 12:45. And now, according to the Rules, we have time for speeches by national MPs on various issues. I'm announcing a record for those national MPs who want to participate in the discussion of "Variance" and the performances. Please, People's Deputy Silantiev of the Radical Party. Passes the word. Two people’s deputies from the Radical Party pass the word to their leader, Oleg Lášk. And please, six minutes for Oleg Lachak's performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u74	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, what I would like to say today is about wages, pensions and medicines for those who need them. Because there's a lot of talk in Parliament in Parliament, outside of Parliament, unfortunately, most of what's said has nothing to do with the problems of the Ukrainians. They tell each other of their own who are in pain, who do not talk, who do not do, and who do not solve people’s problems. What is the biggest problem in the country today? Poverty. When people don't have money to feed their families, to have a job, to have a decent salary so they don't live on utility subsidies, when the average European family pays 10-15 percent on a utility station, we have everything to pay for a utility and we have to. What is the main solution? This is an increase in Ukrainian income so that people have jobs and wages. Does this policy determine whether the government answers these questions? No, I'm afraid not. Because instead of creating conditions for a new economic policy, for a radical change in monetary policy, for people to have cheap loans, the business had to work for the Ukrainian economy to make money, everything was done to turn countries into a "banana republic", into a raw colony. The government is under an obligation to cancel the moratorium on the removal of the rough forest round. The government is under an obligation to sell the land. The government is under an obligation to raise retirement age. And a number of other draconian anti - Ukrainian commitments, which ultimately lead to one — Ukraine continues to be poor, dependent, and Ukrainians still lack the job and the ability to feed their families. The Radical Party is the firm opponent of this policy. We offer an alternative that is different from what today’s authorities are doing. Our plan of action: it's a job for Ukrainians, it's a decent salary for Ukrainians, it's a decent pension. That is why we sought to raise the minimum wage twice. I want to look into the eyes of those who did not vote in favour of raising the minimum wage. Unfortunately, I can't look into my eyes because they're not there. The minimum wage was not voted by the "thief" block, there is no MP here. The "Fatherland" faction didn't vote to raise the minimum wage, there's no MP here. I have a question: what would you say today, when we were trying to raise the minimum, you were telling us: populism, lying, you don't have to raise the minimum. What do you need? Is it necessary for people to live at a rate of one and a half thousand a month? Is it necessary for people to beg? That's why we think it's the right decision to raise the minimum wage. Why I am convinced that this is the right decision. Let's look at the consequences of raising the minimum wage. The income of the budget has increased by 50 percent, the income of the Pension Fund has increased by 40 percent, and the local budget has increased by 70 percent. These are the results of what we have obtained from the government, which have reaped an increase in the minimum wage twice. But we don't think that 3,200 minimum wage is enough. We see all the possibilities today to set a minimum wage of 5,000 dollars per month. Each Ukrainian must receive at least 5,000 dollars a month. We're trying to get the government, we're asking the government, we're asking the authorities to support our initiative, and from April 1, we're going to set a minimum wage in Ukraine at least 5,000 dollars a month. Each person: janitors, janitors, all those who received the minimum wage - technical workers, nurses, labs, all those who received the coins should receive at least 5,000 bracelets a month. And finally, pensions. From raising the minimum wage, redefining the pension fund's income. This means that the government is obliged to submit a bill to Parliament and increase pensions. Half a million people in Ukraine who receive less than a thousand dollars in pension. Millions of people in Ukraine, who are 30 years of age and 40 years of work, receive 1.5-2 thousand dollars of pension. The government used to say there's no way to raise pensions because there's no income from the Pension Fund. Today, after the Radical Party has achieved a wage increase, there has been a redefinition of the income of the Pension Fund. That means the government has to give the pensioners the pensions they've earned with their hard work. Give people money so that the minimum pension in Ukraine is three thousand dollars. But just so that there is no balance, so that the more work experience, the greater the pension that a person earns. So we demand a minimum wage of 5,000 dollars per month, a minimum pension of 3,000 dollars per month. And we'll get it, our team!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u75	Please give a speech now to the national MP, the non-fractional, Sergey Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u76	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear citizens of Ukraine, honourable deputies, first of all, I would like to thank those deputies who supported my last bill yesterday, which dealt with the simplification of the inheritance procedure and the cancellation of taxes and the valuation of this property. Two years ago, a basic law was passed, two years later, when people don't pay more than tens of thousands for their transformed property. And the second part of this law refers to the possibility of forming such an inheritance in rural councils. But what I'm talking about is how these laws are implemented in places. I have thousands of letters coming to me from all over Ukraine, which, unfortunately, in some notary offices are taking money again, and a lot of money for the fact that by law we canceled two years ago. That's why I want to call on all citizens of Ukraine: to ask first of all for government fees, and that's 463 bracelets, and pay myself, not to let assistants of the notary or notary pay this; and to demand that they pay for the decryption of the services that they do, primarily of the state notaries, because it applies to public notaries. Unfortunately, state notaries now have two, double books, so-called "black books" that record one sum, and citizens require another sum. So ask for it yourself, because more than a thousand dollars of any kind, which even has a lot of hereditary property, can't be paid in the end result. Another question is, what is the design of an inheritance? A lot of people don't realize that you can shape what you have the documents for, that it's all made up. And once this person has formed it, then all generations will no longer pay this money, not be in B.I.E., in court and so forth. And the other part. This is what rural councils have the right to form. Don't be afraid, the head of the silage. Don't be afraid, citizens. The kind of specialists you're going to be able to do this on the spot. Because thanks to the Ministry of Justice, pilot projects are now being launched in Sumskia and Kiev, which show how this can be done, because this person will bring income to this rural council. So don't be afraid, go to the justice offices, go to me, we'll help all of the peasants in Ukraine put these documents together properly so that you can get this service to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u77	Please, National Deputy Ednak. We invite you to your presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u78	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! As you all know, since January 1st of this year we have started completely. to the fullest extent and to the fullest extent possible, a moratorium on the export processing of wood. And you know, contrary to the fact that some of my fellow MPs have registered, in particular, a bill for the abolition of this moratorium, but we have, literally this week on the environmental committee, recommended that the Main Committee not support the initiative or vote in favour of cancelling the moratorium. Because in recent years, dozens of woodworking enterprises, including foreign investors, have come to Ukraine, started their jobs, created jobs, paid taxes, and this is certainly the economic growth we all expect. But there is still a problem. And in particular, last year, I systematically demanded that the government resolve them. And in particular, last year, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman proposed that a working group be set up to make decisions. And in fact, in the coming weeks, we're going to present to the government what we want, how we want the wood market to function. Because foreign investors, they don't understand how we can legally buy wood from us, so that all market players will be subject to the only principles of transparency of understandable market pricing. In particular, we're going to be a completely revolutionary thing to offer to the government, it's to sell Ukrainian wood, unprocessed wood through Prozorro, it's an electronic trading system that now works not only for government purchases, but also for the sale of government assets and property and it's completely transparent and understood both for Ukrainian sellers and buyers and for foreign investors. I very much hope that in this year the government will take the initiative and we will be able to fully see where, at what prices, from which suppliers, whether they are state forestry enterprises, whether they are utilities, or military forestry, we will see the whole picture. And I also think that in this year we have to take legislative changes and actually propose the presumption of illegality of origin. So if any of you see whether it's on a sawmill or on the road or on a logging cart or in a wooden car that doesn't have an electronic chip and can't trace its origin, this wood must be confiscated, returned to the income of the state, and the people who transported it should be brought to criminal responsibility. It's these proposals that will go to the government in the coming weeks, and I'm going to look forward to it, and I hope we're all going to demand their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u79	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm still reminding you that we have a session room, not a show called Behind the Glass, so let's just follow the rules. And now I'm asking for the speech of the People's Deputy Rudik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to stop this circus and not show the entire Ukrainian society what we are doing in this room right now. One of our colleagues had just responded to a very important problem, and then he went on to the circus form of world acceptance. Come on, we have a lot more problems in Ukrainian society right now, which is worth talking about. Number one, I think for my district, is a health problem. Thus it was that the Georgian gastrollors first, and now the current MOH leadership continues to experiment with the braves in the part of the reform of the special-methods. Perhaps someone remembers that we made a historic decision and transferred 17 special services throughout our country to the local budget. And imagine a situation, two of them, two of them, right in the city of Smila. A decision was made, and the city council began looking for funds, which, of course, are not in the budget, and began to think about what to do with it. They've even prepared a draft decision to transfer one of them, this is Special Med number 14, to the local balance sheet of Smiley. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that the state of February 17th of the year was still under state budget funding, since officials from the MoH, the Ministry of Justice, and trade, from the Ministry of Justice to today, had not accepted the documents to legally transfer it to municipal property. And it went up, and there were 150 people left out of work who are not in the local budget today or in the state budget. There's just been a story with the hospital districts. We wanted to make Bolda the center of the experiment again, not giving us the center of the hospital district, but thanks to the community, the sensuous position of our people, the doctors, and in particular, we are now able to stand it back. And we've been correcting the position of the Church District State Administration, which has called back the previous proposals and given new ones, where one of the hospital centers will be in the territory of the city of Smila. The hospital district will consist of 211,000 people. And I hope that at least in this part we can compensate for these incomprehensible pseudoreforms of our MOH. And the last. Visit the Health Ministry’s website on February 8, 17. There's a declaration to be filled by patients in primary health care, in the choice of a doctor, there's not two points left -- a man and a woman, and paragraph three is "M". Think about what "M" is. I demand from the government, from all who are involved in this matter, cancel this bad practice, we don't have an "M," we have either a man or a woman, we are a Christian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u81	Thank you. I ask for the word of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk. And once again, I urge the national MPs present to listen to the speeches of our colleagues and not to disturb each other. Please, Mr. Halasyuk. I ask you very much not to disturb Mr. Halasyuk's honorary colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u82	Dear Mrs. Irina, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! Any national decision to make any international commitment by Ukraine must be tested whether it is beneficial to the Ukrainian economy, to the Ukrainian society, whether it creates this national decision to create new jobs, whether it involves investment in the country, whether it makes our industry and economy stronger, or whether it increases this decision or the international commitment to the income of Ukrainian citizens. Let's see what the authorities are doing today. Trying to reverse the moratorium on the export of roundwood from Ukraine is a completely anti-government initiative. You and I in this Parliament have chosen 10 years to ban the export of unprocessed roundwood, raw raw materials, so that Ukrainians can have jobs, wages to save our ecology. And today, the government in a shameful way is trying to reverse this moratorium. Our task with you is not to assume this, because these are Ukrainian jobs, this is prosperity, this is the future of our nation. See, today, through a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, it is required to sell Ukrainian land, agricultural land. How can we do this today? Should we sell land or sell raw materials or sell Ukrainians as immigrants to make 300 euros in Poland, Italy? No, we need to develop our own village, we need to increase the development of animals, agriculture, as European countries do, which is based on raw exports, based on the export of unprocessed products, the introduction of a special tax on the agricultural and raw materials congregation, as proposed by the Radical Party faction, from the export of corn, grain, and sunflowers to give money to those who support the cow in order to regenerate the Ukrainian village. See what is happening today in the industry: they raise, they want to raise tariffs for rail transport by 25 percent. Will this make our industry stronger and more competitive, or will it create jobs? No, on the contrary, it will make us lose Europe. Look what the National Bank is doing today. They say they're struggling with inflation and they see it as their only and primary task. But I'm sorry, they're fighting inflation as much as they can fight a guillotine. Nobody in the world is fighting inflation like that. It's better to have 15 percent inflation and have a steady economic growth and an increase in citizens' income than to promise inflation by 5 percent and actually have 25 or 30 and have a decline in their own production. Or, look, today the blockade of a railway that essentially kills Ukrainian metallurgy, Ukrainian industry, and threatens the country’s energy security. It's in the best interest of anyone but the Russian Federation and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Victor. 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u84	We have to make these state decisions today that are beneficial to Ukraine, which are beneficial to Ukrainian citizens, not to the International Monetary Fund, not to other countries, not to the European Union. Each country competes for the welfare of its own citizens, for jobs, for investment, for quality of life. And Ukraine should not give up in this competition, we must be a worthy partner who cares for his people first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Honorable People's Deputy Vadim Krivochatko of Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, chairman! Ukrainian people! We all know that on October 31, 2016, the deadline for the submission of declarations, electronic declarations, came to an end. All persons, and firstly, all persons who held positions of responsibility on September 1, 2016, that is, those positions provided for in Article 3 of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption had to be reported. But it also applies to such individuals, as well as to the governor of the Zaporozhye region of Constantine Brell. But if you look closely at this site, the State Register of Electronic Declarations, you won't see this declaration. And I have a question for the law enforcement agencies: on what basis the Governor of Zaporozhye District, who is the manager of the billions of assets, has not published an electronic declaration, that is, on what grounds. I've been making some inquiries about the Security Service, the NAB, and I've got this answer that this Constantine Brill guy is like some sort of secret member of the BAF, and that gives him the right not to publish a declaration. This is absolute propaganda, because article 52 with badge 1 provides for a list of these people, and the governors don't belong to people who have the right not to submit an electronic declaration, I'm going to talk about the employees of the BSS in general. And today, there is no order for them to make declarations, and the only way and the right way to make a declaration is to publish it on the NAZK website. I'm the Major of the Zaporozhye Region, and you know, this year, when the governor of Zaporez County is Constantine Brill, his entire path is humiliated by corruption scandals. Regrettably, the area occupies the last cities and economic development, and is the leader of crime. Do you understand? The district is occupied by the first city for crimes committed, both economic and other. And that's why I'm asking again, and I want the law enforcement authorities, the Attorney General, to ask you why, on what grounds the Governor in Zaporez might be the only governor who didn't fill out the electronics, didn't publish the electronic declaration, I have everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. Please, Yuri Derevyanko, your speech is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u88	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Honorable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, respected residents of united territorial communities! Two years ago, the Law on Voluntary Unity of Territorial Communities was passed, and today some 400 communities have been able to unite. I warmly welcome all those who have managed to unite, who have gone through this difficult path, and who are doing everything today to enable the community to develop so that the community can be stronger and better. We and many heads of the united communities, as well as representatives of the communities, won many victories last year against officials who blocked the process, who tried to keep the law enforcement authorities and everyone else from doing so. But what I want to tell you is that this terrible fight is going on, because there are different areas of Ukraine that are saying today that they support the decentralization reform policy, they support the President's policy of assigning the heads of state administrations to positions, and they're actually doing nothing. In this case, it is the Kyiv district government, which is trying to do everything possible to be a leader in the last list of all areas of Ukraine regarding the united territorial communities. I was contacted by communities in virtually all parts of the Kyiv region that want to unite, but the Kyiv district government is conscientiously and deliberately blocking this process. In particular, it is about the Fursiow United Territorial Society, the Skarovsky United Territorial Society. These are powerful settlements, villages that have united rural, village councils that want to go together and work together. Instead, officials treat their laws, they think that they should all join huge cities, those that have at least 200-250 thousand inhabitants, and thus completely dissolve communities in agglomeration. You know, it's unacceptable when officials, on the one hand, honor Mr. Groissman, Mr. President, in carrying out their reforms, and on the other hand, keep these communities on hold, doing everything they can to perhaps achieve their corrupt and other private interests. In particular, with regard to the land, especially with regard to the transfer of agricultural land into the land of construction and all that. So the last answer I received from the Kyiv District State Administration is impressive by its cynicism, where they refer to the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution, to all other things, and to their reasoning they interpret this situation. Today, Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman has confirmed his position that he is a supporter of the decentralization reform, and it is unacceptable that officials of this level are blocking it today. I demand the release of such officials, the release of all those who prepare such materials for them. And to those communities that are blocked from addressing us, to the national MPs, and we will win together and allow such communities to unite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u89	Thank you, dear fellows. It used to be called "The Journalist Changes Careers." We're in this room right now with the section "Deputy Changes the Job." But I now give the floor to the national deputy Borislav Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u90	Good afternoon, Your Honor! I want to ask you three questions. First, I want to ask you if you're tired of having 50, 40, 30 and sometimes less than 20 deputies left at the end of the week. If we can see that this question is not going anywhere, then I have a question: maybe we can solve it. To do that, you have to change the Rules, first of all, whether it's to make this day a day off (and what to say if there's no one in the room) or a full day's work. If we really want to work, we need to raise that question. Secondly, if the Supreme Council is looking for a solution to the issue of vice versa, it should not be sought. Because my bill, which solves this issue and cuts down on the walkers in general, has been on the committee dress for more than two years. It should be placed in the session room and voted on. And perhaps then we will find a solution to that question. But it hasn't happened yet. Question three. I want to speak publicly to the head of the city of Kiev, the head of the KIMDA, to the mayor of Kiev, Mr. Vitalia Klicka. Mr. Mayor, you know that the Righteous RDA is probably the only RDA that nobody's headed right now. No, there are officials there who are performing duties that are very successful in drinking our district’s budget. As a member of the Trinity, I want to address you. Stop this nonsense, I don't know, yeah, self-government. Put a man on the president's head, the area can't be without his head for another two or three years. That's the first one. Secondly, understand that if you don't like someone in this session room or maybe some Troas MP, it doesn't mean you have to punish the whole area. The area must be headed. I'm expecting you, Mr. Klitschko, and I'm asking you to find out that this is my official request to you, the question is, when are you going to put a man in charge of the district, the right-wing district of Kiev? Because the tridents are tired of waiting. And the last. I realize that there are not many people in the room today. I realize that some, indeed, have reasons not to come here, in fact, they do not want to appear here at all, but someone is sick. But, Your Honor, when we say that relations with Parliament are already negative, find out, that's because we don't go to our jobs, that's because we don't adopt laws, like yesterday's delete-server bill, that's because we forgot what we came here for. You should.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Borislav. Please, Ukrainian National Deputy Mr. Rosenblatt of the Petra Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Today you have heard the speeches of our ministers, the government where they reported on their activities. One of the presentations was by Mr. Nasalik, Minister of Coal Industry. And I share his concern that 750 thousand more tons of coal are missing in Ukrainian homes so that there is light and heat. But I'd like to go with a completely different kind of proposal. Nevertheless, consider the issue of Ukraine's state strategy for our energy independence. You know, when an explosion broke out at the Fukushima Japanese nuclear power plant in 2011, the German government decided not to use nuclear power. They immediately shut down 8 power grids and developed a state-of-the-art program that, by 2022, Germany would have refused to use nuclear energy in general. If we understand today that the war in our eastern country is not for one year, and we understand that until our Ukrainian army becomes the strongest army in Europe, we cannot defeat the enemy, we cannot guarantee that we can today use the coal of an anthracite group. That's why my proposal is simple: I want us to really develop a system, and this is the government's national program that will allow Ukraine to use green energy: the energy of the sun, the water of the light -- all we really have today is unlimited quantity, and we weren't dependent on bandits, fighters supplying coal or not. I understand that there are Ukrainian miners working there. But believe me, today they're paying taxes both in the Ukrainian economy and paying taxes to the same fighters. I'm not going to politicize this issue right now, I just want the government of our country to really understand that the issue of energy efficiency, the question of energy-generating, energy-independentness is a state programme, and money needs to be used with understanding, with the understanding that Ukraine has all the resources to completely abandon the use of an anthracite group. I understand today those miners who are on Volina today who want to work as well. And we all have to create conditions for them to actually have jobs and coals. But once again, today, countries around the world are using many other, alternative energy sources. So once again, I appeal to the Minister of Energy, to the Prime Minister, to the entire government, to us, to the parliamentarians: we must find an alternative way to keep the Ukrainians' homes warm and light and quiet. And it shouldn't depend on today's fighters who want or don't want to provide energy or our deputies who are blocking or blocking today. It's got to be a state program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u93	And thank you, dear colleague. Please, Tetjana Ritchkova, we invite you to the floor, from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u94	Dear citizens of Ukraine, before I go to the point of my speech, I want to remind all of you of a few important things. The definition of who the "national MP" is. This is chosen in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, a representative of the Ukrainian people in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and authorized by him during his term of office to exercise the powers provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine for the good and for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. In the exercise of its powers, the National MP is governed by the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine and generally defined morals. A national MP is obliged to take care of Ukraine’s welfare and well - being. All of us here have made an oath here on this rostrum: to protect the interests of the electorate and the state; to observe the requirements of the Constitution and so forth. be present and personally participate in the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the bodies to which he has been elected. For a few here. I guess it's about a percent. 10-20 percent of the national deputies are not present at the Supreme Council Hall, and some deputies are not attending meetings of the Supreme Council at all. And I'm indignant that these deputies, who are chronically absent from their jobs, are getting paid and charging the criminal authorities. But I would like to remind you, honourable deputies, that you are the authority and should be present at your workplace. [[Applause]] You're representatives of the government, and Ukrainians are waiting to solve socially important issues within the framework of the law. The electorate hopes for the constructive legislative and legislative work of MPs, not the populism of some deputies who, under the slogans of the ATO and the blood that our boys shed, are masked by a violent violation of Ukrainian law. I am now speaking on behalf of the Ukrainian Air Force and on behalf of the military. This week, Nadija Savchenko's national constituency was in the area of Donetsk Airport, where she met with the officers of the 80th Special Airborne Brigade, 79th, and encouraged them to leave their positions and come here to overthrow the criminal authority. We all know, take up arms in the hands of come to overthrow this criminal authority. Guess who she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u95	Please, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u96	My words can confirm a lot of the fighters of these air combat brigades. The only thing they're really sorry about is that they couldn't make video recordings, videos. It is important that the victorious appeals in the leading positions of our armies, which under the most difficult conditions stand and resist an enemy such as the Russian Federation, and from.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u97	I give everyone 30 seconds, Mrs. Tetian. Please, maybe someone else from the Peter Dust Block will give you their time, and you'll be able to speak. Please, this is national MP Lewchenko, and then we move on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u98	Levchenko, Svoboda, 223 District, Kyiv City, Shevchenkovsky District, Kiev I would like to address you today, and I would like to draw attention to a huge problem called the NABU. It is to draw attention to the problem that the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, which is supposed to be a new organ that is supposed to investigate everything, is brimming the Kiev city’s head of bandit, the thief Klitska Vitali Volodymirovich. What are you talking about? Last December, I asked two questions, one question, one request. One related to the illegal signing of the land lease agreement by Klitschko, in direct violation of Ukrainian law, signed an illegal contract with a citizen on the street of Svetoszynski in Kiev, handed over "Kyivmishkbud". It's absolutely illegal, it's criminal activity, it's a direct violation of the Criminal Code and it's under investigation by the NAB. I made a request to the NABU. I've been told everything's fine, fresh Marquis, everything's fine, there's no crime, good-bye. Yeah? Excuse me, this is despite the fact that all the documents, all the documents were displayed, the Key, the withdrawal of the law, all the evidence that it's illegal. Also young journalists from "The Trace." Info has been investigated and shown throughout the country, as Klitschko has not indicated in his declaration a huge multimillion-dollar estate in Los Angeles. I kind of forgot. Journalists have shown that he has property, photographs of his wife, and documents. I'm turning to the NABU, open a criminal case. Again, everything is great, there is no crime, you don't have to open a criminal case. The direct violation of article 214 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which allows them to determine whether they are there, does not constitute a crime only after they have introduced it into the GDR, will start an investigation. Only then can they decide whether there is a crime or not. No, they don't even open, they don't even start investigating. So I'm saying from this rostrum that the NABU, as if such a beautiful organ, is covered by the Call of Vitaly Volodymyrovich, apparently at the command of the Bank. I asked a question last plenary week, and today I've asked one more question about the same issue now at the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, at the Refrigeration Office, at their trial manager. And now I'm looking forward to whether the D.A.'s office is covering up the same kind of gang member Klitschka, or perhaps the D.A.'s office would, at least, implement the Code of Criminal Procedure and bring relevant information to the G.R.R. Because now what's going on? The prosecution runs around Kiev, raises cases for 7, 8, 9 years, very good cases against Czervetsky, his shareholders. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u99	Please. The only thing I'm asking is not to take on court functions in language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u100	I'm a court-martial, I didn't take office.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u101	30 seconds, but no court functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u102	Mrs. Irina, if you're referring to the functions of the court, I don't take over the functions of the court, because they don't even let the case go to trial, you know what court it's about? So the thing is, the prosecutor's office is running around Kiev today, raising old cases. Good job, let's get them up. So let's see if they're going to open the case on an active scale right now, not because it was 10 years ago, but after an active gang member robbing the capital. So I'm asking Lucenko to take care of the matter personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u103	Please, National Deputy John Sporish of the Peter Dust Block. Mr. Ivan, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u104	Dear Chairman, distinguished national deputies who have remained in the hall. As they say, we are few, but we are in calves, and at the same time, not as much as in the hall, but the main thing is that our speeches should really reach the people of Ukraine. And I think today, probably more than all of the speeches we've heard today and questions to the government, that's the only thing that can be highlighted -- it's really in the context of decentralization of the power of unification in the areas of hospitals. I think that's question number one today. It's really hard for me to talk like a major today, why? Because we know, in my district, for example, the rallying and the Tomaspil district, in the Chargorod region. I understand perfectly that when we unite prosecutors in the areas, the courts. The U.S., the police, the people don't care where they go and where they're going, the people want the hospitals to be there so that they can be treated. And we see, for example, in Tomaspil, when there's a good hospital, when there's good doctors, how do we close it or attach it somewhere? Especially in my district is Chargordish. You know, there are more than 500 children born in Chargograd in about a year. For example, close the maternity ward and join a hospital district. I think that all of this should be done, not in this way, but gradually. We should, today, be glad that the Prime Minister said that for seven years we should extend the lives of citizens, that's very good, that the drugs there are hypertensives, diabetics and so on, we would like to see another hepatitis "C" given at the expense of the state. But the important thing is that we make this merger of hospitals mentally, gradually, and gradually, without rushing, in places, asking people, asking local authorities, and then making a conclusion. Because we know the weaknesses that have been experienced in hospitals in certain areas. Besides, I'd like to, I haven't been able to ask the minister of agro-industrial development, it's Mr. Kutov's, but I think there's a chance to say one thing that a peasant lives in a village today from milk. And you know, if the other price for milk today is 5.30, in a year, in a month, I forgive you, it's going to be less than 5. At the Ministry level, I'd like to do everything I can to get the dairy plants to pick up the middlemen and leave the milk price at least 5 bracelets for the peasant. Because it's pretty low wages for a peasant, pretty low pensions in a village, it's hard to live with a peasant. But along with that, if there was the same price for milk, at least 5 dollars a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u105	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u106	Then you wouldn't be eating a peasant and holding this cow. Finally, I'd like to, let's leave populism, let's leave the accusations to those who sound in the hall today, and let's think about Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Please, Mikhaylo Golovko, non-fractional, from the Freedom MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u108	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs! On Wednesday we all saw Ukrainians unite, three political nationalist forces held the March of Dignity and the requirement of this march, which was primarily the protection of national interests. Including Ukraine's energy interests, because energy security is the independence of our state. Unfortunately, we see that there are a lot of corrupts in this area, there are a lot of shulers that are being used and eventually -- Ukraine is losing. One of them, we've posted his poster on the Supreme Council today, is the head of NAC Naftogazu Kobolev, who has allowed the increase in the price of gas for the population. In the end, Ukraine loses as a state, as an economy, and as our representatives in the international arena, because our production is not competitive. I'm not talking about the fact that they have opaque purchases on their side, eventually instead of buying gas in the second quarter, they bought in the fourth quarter at an overpriced price of $40, which caused the government to lose about 3 billion dollars. And I want to say that unfortunately, this area is really hitting the economy of Ukraine, and today billions of dollars are coming out of the state budget, and I've already raised that question. And recently, from the Supreme Council's rostrum, I went to the State Auditor's Office to see if they were checking out a structure like Crushing. So they gave me an official answer that last year they tried four times to verify the management of Crushing and this structure, and they refused. I'm going to read, on the basis that they allegedly motivated that this company is not a state-owned enterprise, and that's why state-owned financial authorities have no right to check them. I mean, in the Constitution, we said that gas is state property, and Crushing is not considered a state-owned enterprise, and financial authorities are not allowed to check. What are they afraid of if they call themselves super transparent managers, super successful managers? The fact that they've raised the price seven times for gas for the population, the fact that we're covering almost 100 billion from the state budget, what's going on is not transparent purchases and so on, which is that corruption is unfortunately eating up this country and it's destroying our economy from the inside. And so, of course, I'm going to the government, to Groysman, today I've personally sent him a letter with the deputies. Unfortunately, he was not given the opportunity to ask them to consider this issue on Kabmin and hand over direct management of Kabmin's Crushing. And in general, we need to destroy that corrupt lock, this counter as NAC Naftogaz, which remains solely to wash billions off the government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u109	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Please, Deputy Sverk of the People's Party. He's giving the word to his colleague, Mr. Jarinich. Please, Mr. Jarinich, we invite you to your word. Then Igor Mosiyczuk is still on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Allow me to give you today some very strong information about the situation that has taken place in my hometown of Kirovgrad, which I am presenting today in the Supreme Council as a Mayor of the District Center. The fact is that disease and mortality in our region have a colossal separation from all other areas of Ukraine. Today, Kirovgradska is the leader of cancer among all other regions of Ukraine. And these figures at the district center are at a much higher level among all the population points in our Ukraine. What is the reason for this? The first is the natural factors that are placed in the crystal shield. And you know that Kirovgrad is on a crystal shield with colossal deposits of uranium. And the uranium mining is going directly under our district center. But there's another reason why we don't have to protect the population from ionizing radiation. Radon is the agent that causes the oncosa, and this gas is the result of the process, the result of the breakdown of uranium. And this process is happening under the feet of our residents of the district center all the time. After that, radon is practically infiltrated into all the premises, administrative and residential buildings, gardens, and schools. Just think, among the factors that cause cancer in our city, 32 percent depends on ecology. By 2020, cancer will be a major cause of death. As a doctor-oncologist who faces this problem all the time, almost every day, I'll say it's a huge tragedy for both the patient and the family and the family and the loved ones. What's important is that we have a clear vision and a plan for reducing environmental threats to reduce disease and mortality in Kirovgrad. And the solution to this problem lies in acceptance and execution and funding, which is a very important, state-of-the-art radiation protection program for our city's population and the area. It includes the following key elements. I'm not saying it's all the ingredients, and I want to call it the main ingredients now. This is the rehabilitation of polluted areas of the city by greening and carrying out anti-terrorist measures, by providing social compensation to those living in polluted areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u111	Please, let's finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u112	Providing effective diagnostics and medications, and so forth. And I, as a member of the Supreme Council Committee on Health, have already held a number of consultations and meetings and directly with the Prime Minister, and with the heads of ministries and departments and departments, and with the groups and factions of the Supreme Council, and I will tell you quite frankly that there is a willingness to develop and support this program. And then again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u113	Thank you, of course. Thank you very much for your timely presentation, Mr. Jarinich, indeed. And please, the people's MP Moseschuk is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u114	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! There is now a great deal to be said about the so - called trade in occupied areas, in the blood trade. Here, even a whole faction of parliament left its work and moved in an unknown direction to block something. In Ukraine, in the warring Ukraine, it is sometimes said that Russian companies are free to work, earn money, and be budgeted by the Russian Federation, for which bullets are bought, and for which they kill the better sons and daughters of Ukraine. Just two examples. The company AMIK is more known to everyone as the former Lukoil. She took an umbrella of Austria with the help of a absent person almost never Sergey Ljovczyn and worked for herself. Not only does it work, but it only shows last year that it works for itself by 52 million. Can any of your colleagues or Ukrainians believe that the autofill network is working for itself? No, it's an economic diversion. Another example, the Donbas Industrial Union, is an enterprise, including the metallurgical industry, 80 percent belongs to the Foreign Bank of the Russian Federation, that is, directly. It's a nation of aggressors. But no one's blocking them, no one's closing them. And those people who are currently screaming for the blockade are not voting for our Radical Party Oleg Laska Act on the Nationalization of Aggressor Country Property. The facts that I have just brought to you, please consider my request to the head of the Security Service, the head of the National Police, the Attorney General of Ukraine. And now, three years ago, a historic decision was adopted in this Parliamentary Hall, which allowed me and 22 of my brothers to be released. It was approved by the draft decision of Oleg Láška under the pressure of the rebel Ukrainians who broke out on the fourth approach to parliament. I sincerely thank all those who have taken part in my release for the release of all those. And I would like to point out that none of the prisoners released then committed any crime, everyone was protecting and protecting the country now, two were Ukrainian national deputies. Don't put a free spirit in chains!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u115	Please welcome the National Deputy of Ukraine Silantiev. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u116	Denis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it important? Okay. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to point out your attention to. When on the last Sunday of the session we voted in favour of the bill on the State Fund for the Humanities Development of Ukraine, as we successfully failed it. Why is this so important? I can say with full responsibility that the country today is on the verge of a humanitarian default. Why so? Dear citizens of Ukraine, remember when the national deputies, when the civil servants come to you at the meeting they tell you. Your family, your children, and your health are said to care deeply for you, as well as for you. Then what do we see? Then we see that when Ukraine has a chance to change the health situation when the FAPs are closed, it is in physical culture. In the direction of physical culture and sports, when physical schools are closed, when children's sports schools are closed, in education and in science, when CTU is closed, because there is no financing, and when there is a chance of change, to create a fund for humanitarian development that would be filled with the sources of business that are harmful to the health of the population is alcohol and tobacco. It's a pretty clear way for this money to go to compensate for the damage they're doing to society. And instead of supporting this bill, we've successfully knocked it down. What do you want to do? There's still a chance. There was a bill on the cultural fund. A fund of culture that provides funding from the State Budget. It's a fund of culture that's supposed to be run by the Ministry of Culture. I ask, in two years' time, even though one of the Department of Culture has created one? No, not a single cultural center. It is time for the members of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk to amend the bill in order to bring it any closer to the point that is still there. to the needs that people need today. It's to protect our nation from the humanitarian crisis, from the humanitarian default. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, People's Deputy Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u118	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. I'd like to draw the attention of colleagues and all Ukrainians to a situation in the field that we have the only one living in our economy, that's in the agricultural sector. And on his own example. Tell your native Kirovgrady what is going on with our farmers. Today, mass raids by raiders in the Kirovograd area, in other areas because there are gaps in legislation, because we've adopted an anti-rider package of laws, but it doesn't actually work. In particular, in the Blagowisten region of 300 puils of land, we reflected only because people saw their lands stolen on time, went on the Odessa Kiev route, covered it up, and that was the only way to stop the Raider attack. The same is happening in the Golovanov region. This morning in the Novoarchangel region, local circuit deputies removed the head of Basilchenk Sergio’s district administration because of this. That he just ran 3 percent of the land of the state reserve, that's a few thousand acres of land, bypassing the contest, bypassing the auction, just handing out. There's a red farm in the Bobrinecki district, 5,000 acres, it's been looting for about a third year. And these are just a few examples that are happening around the area. We have the richest Kirovograd region, the richest Ukraine in the agrarian sector, we produce a huge amount of raw materials that, unfortunately, is either looted or we sell it to Europe for a penny without creating a finished product. And against the backdrop of all that is happening in the country, honest compaders and traitors of the Ukrainian Parliament register submission to the Constitutions of the Court to take down the moratorium on the sale of land, in a parliament that has established a strategy that we do not sell Ukrainian land, they're trying to take the moratorium off the sale of land through a selling Constitutional Court. If we take down a moratorium today on selling land, believe me, big magnates rob the land and steal it, take it to the peasants for the last few days, because there's no way to buy land, there's no way to take credit, and there's no way in hell there are magnets. By the way, we've allocated a few billion farm support, and in fact, we've only got these billions of companies: the President's company, Kosuk's company, the big agrarian magnets. And in fact, farmers, simple peasants, who are 500 hectares, who are small farmers, don't get any support from the Ukrainian state. By the way, another problem that our farmers have faced today is that contracts are burning because the deficit artificial "The Crucifixion" has created on the wagons. Today, you don't export a product that's made, it doesn't export because they just block the release of wagons in the Cruise Station, and it's an artificial deficit that was created specifically to demand money from the transporters. And we demand support from Ukrainian peasants and protection from Ukrainian farmers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Olena Matuzko gives the word to Tetjani Richko. Mrs. Tetjana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u120	I want to continue my speech and report on the illegal actions of the National Deputy of the Saucenco Hope, who was witnessed by the military forces of the Ukrainian Air Force. This week she was present in the positions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and incited the military to leave their positions and come to Kiev and make a coup d'état. I want to remind her that article of the Criminal Code, article 109, is an incentive to bring down the constitutional system, and please consider my speech a question of parliament. On my behalf and on behalf of the military, I call on the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service to start a criminal case for this fact. That's why there are witnesses, these are 80 and 79 troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Airborne. And on their behalf, I'd like to literally convey the addresses of our boys who are now protecting us with you on the front. "It's such a profession to protect the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, give us the opportunity to serve peacefully, to carry out our military duties, to protect our families and your families. Don't involve the army in your political games." And I'm addressing all the national MPs. I'm against anarchy, I'm against military officials getting involved in political agitation, whether it's power or power. I'm for democracy, the rule of law. So I'm asking everyone to stop abusing our military personnel and give them the opportunity to protect us with you. Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Tetiano. The next speaker is the Ukrainian national MP from Mr. Sevrukov's "Block of Peter Prashenko". Please. We're working for the second one. We always work until the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u122	I'm short. Dear colleagues, I would like to raise such a question. To turn from this rostrum to the heads of factions and say that I am already working in Parliament for a year and a year and a half and a half, which is not part of the committee. And like me today, the 27 people's deputies who have already gone to parliament, but because there are political games, agreements, because this is the question that the committees are trying to merge with the question of the transition of deputies, the appointment of new leaders, the question is blocked. So I'm addressing all the conscious MPs, all the heads of factions to solve this issue as quickly as possible, to find an opportunity to make a deal, and yet to allow MPs to work on committees. I know that there has never been such a shame in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. And I would like everyone to pay attention to this and consider this a formal request to the heads of factions and to the Head of Parliament to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u123	I'm reminding you, by the way, that the Rules rule that Parliament works on Friday, not when the current is over, but by 14 o'clock. The chairman has the right to continue this meeting for 15 minutes so that all the deputies who are registered in the letter can speak, all present. Fortunately, we still have those who wish to speak. And that's why I'm continuing my morning session for 15 minutes so that all the desirable MPs can speak. And now I ask you to form a parliamentary request from the People's Deputy, Sevrukov, for the leadership of Parliament and the leaders of all parliamentary factions. Unfortunately, only one leader is present in the hall, but everyone needs to be asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u124	I'm going to remember and they're going to demand a line. That's why there's one. And I give the floor to the national MP Meparishville. Please, an honorary colleague from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u125	Good afternoon, dear friends, colleagues, presiding. Thank you. I'd like to say first of all to my friends who gave me their word, Vitaliq. And I want to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I ask your respect for the speaker. He masters the English language and will speak mildly in Ukrainian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u127	My dear colleague, I am. Listen, since I'm from Georgia, forgive me for my Russian, I apologize deeply and I'm learning Ukrainian, but I'm going to speak Ukrainian in the near future. And the second question. I would like to draw attention to the decentralization that is taking place in Ukraine. This is how I will begin my statement: the law for all laws. I'm going to start with Kiev because I know the area very well, and I live there, and I'm going to focus on the number of areas. We have 25 districts, 12 cities of regional importance and 600 and more villages. Thus, Kiev is the gates of Kiev, and decentralization is very slow and bad. Why? The first zone of Kiev is a powerful community that has its own status, and they do not want to join up with small 30-kilometre zones. Example: The White Church is the largest city in Kiev, with 215,000 inhabitants. There are 12 powerful villages around the White Church. Thanks to the White Church and the industrial city, these villages have become self-sufficient. But for today, they do not want to unite with the city. Why? Because all the infrastructure needed for the community is in the city of the White Church. I see a solution to the question of the integration of the community into two communities: the cities of Belaya Church and the Uzinska community. It's a powerful, good community. There should be 65 communities in Kiev. Of these, 29 communities have already been approved with the Cabinet of Ministers, while the rest have been approved by voluntary association of the community. I'm the only one who'll ask all the officials who are impeding the community today to abide by the law, the law for all of us. Thank you. The second topic was to discuss the water fund of the city of Kiev, if you give me a moment, I'll move in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u128	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u129	In 30 seconds, it is hard to talk about fresh water in Ukraine, but still, water is in a weary state today. The only thing I can do in my statement, or I ask from the Power, is to request a grant or subsidy from the Power for the capital repairs, the clearance of the meliorate channels and the deepening of our fairways. Or create a water fund that allows us to drink, bathe, destroy, and then pour it back into the water. And nobody's responsible for that today, you know. There's not a penny to keep, and there's no major repairs. I'll ask for your support, your advice, because water is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor. I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Melniczuk, to give his address to the People's Deputy of Chervakov. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u131	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to inform you of a very difficult humanitarian situation that took place in the city of Krasnogorovka, in the area of Donetsk. In general, the humanitarian situation is difficult in all cities to carry out an antiterrorist operation. But why am I drawing your attention to this very place? As we know, two years ago, the city of Krasnogorovka and Marijnka were destroyed by the gas pipeline, which resulted in a lack of centralized heating in these cities. During the last heating season, when there was no heating, there was a dog’s cold in the apartments, and 11 people froze to death in the many stories of the city of Krasnorevka. What would the authorities do under such conditions? It would have acted to protect the local population from such risks and beyond. However, on the eve of today's heating season 2016 and 2017, we did not call on the Donetské VCA once again to provide alternative sources of energy to the local population and to actually kick this step out of the Donetsk Military and Civil Administration only under the pressure of the deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to point out that only at the end of November did the purchase of alternative artificial fires, so-called bourgeois, and the fuel to them, amounted to 1 million bracelets and the situation in Krasnorovka was recognized as an extraordinary local level. What was to happen next? By negotiation procedure, without tenders, they were to purchase these bourgeois and distribute them to people so that they would not die in the heat of the cold. What really happened? The documents show money for bourgeois, 296 pieces — Marínka, 264 — Krasnovka. I would like to emphasize that this is the end of November. Do you know when the bourgeois started coming and actually coming to these cities? Already after the New Year. Dear colleagues, I think it's a shame. But even more embarrassing is the way the local Krasnogorovska already told me about the number of bourgeois trees that came to Krasnogorjek, I don’t know the situation in Mariana. 264 was due, and in fact 126. And no tons of coal, no fuel to these bourgeois. Dear colleagues, we understand how difficult it is for the local authorities, we realize that today, too, the fire was fired on the Audio, there is no water supply. But we urge the local authorities to take greater responsibility for their duties because they are Ukrainian citizens, and their Ukrainian sentiments depend not on embroidery, but on how the local authorities act to ensure their well - being and security, understanding what the authorities care about them. Because otherwise, in fact, respected colleagues, creeping separatism and its threat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andrew Illenck. And according to the Rules, we have five other colleagues on the list who will be able to make their appearance, and we will conclude our meetings. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u133	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, today was an hour of questions to the government. And a monologue from the government minister of energy showed pictures of a pro-Ukrainian rally in Donetsk in March 2014. And this was given in the context of the talk, which was all about how right it was that Ukraine was trading in temporarily occupied areas. What I said was, you see, a Ukrainian rally in Donetsk, and that's why it's the right policy. I'd like to say that this rally was. An armed attack was carried out against him, and it was at that rally that took place in March 2014 that, indeed, the Ukrainian rally in Donetsk was killed by our freeman Dmitry Chernavsky, the Hero of Ukraine and the man who gave his life for the only Ukraine. And he was killed by those armed bandits, financed by the blood trade today, including the Donetsk oligaracht. And this picture that was shown is completely manipulative in this context. Because that's exactly the result of what's happening in two chairs, which is a war called ATO, which is not being passed by laws that would ban this shameful trade that supports the occupation regime in these territories that finance the war against us. And we need to adopt our Freedom Bill, registered in June 2015 to ban trade in occupied areas. We need to adopt a bill that prohibits the imposition of embargoes on goods produced in Russia and the cessation of trade with the invaders. We need to nationalize the Russian occupation business, which is still operating in Ukraine, because it's a nightmare when Russian banks, when Russian companies are doing business in our territory. That can't be in principle. We need to break up diplomatic relations with the aggressor country, because for much smaller incidents than the occupation of our territories, the deaths of tens of thousands of our citizens are being disrupted by diplomatic relations. We haven't done that yet. And that's where the big rally yesterday, the huge national dignity march, was organized by the patriotic nationalist forces: Freedom, National Corps, Right Sector, which was here under the Supreme Council building. And that's one of the requirements that we're making today. So that's what Parliament should be doing today, and that's what the government should be doing. Instead of manipulating and displaying entirely heroic photographs of the pro-Ukrainian rally in Donetsk, the same collaboration with the invaders. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u134	Mr. Bondar, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to look into a problem that has arisen, as they say recently, not yesterday, in my constituency of 119. I think that's affected by a lot of population, not just 119 polling stations, but other districts. This is garbage coming from the city of Lviv. The point is that at night they are being transported to various areas of Brodjishtina, Radehovščina, Kaminka Buzek and Buzekka. Village councils are being dumped in the countryside in the woods, the inhabitants of those village councils, and the areas are being traced back to the cars that brought the garbage. Unfortunately, neither the Transportation Security Service nor the city's handlers, nor the police, nobody, nor the D.A. And so far no one has been called to account. So once again, I want my speech to be considered by the relevant structures and to the Transport Security Service, and to the head of the Lviv ODA of Mr. Sinyutka, and to the law enforcement authorities to deal with this disgraceful phenomenon that is now in Lviv and in particular my 119 constituency and to bring to justice the responsibility of the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. Please, our next national MP, Chumak Victor Vasilovich. All of it. Next member of the Shurma Igor. I'm sorry, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u137	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. There was a meeting yesterday, a regular meeting of the Health Committee, where an evaluation was made by the Ministry of Health regarding the purchase of medicines through international organizations. There is no doubt that this assessment is unsatisfactory. In doing so, the representatives of all the factions voted for the evaluation, representing all the factions that were. The paradox is that the Ministry of Health does not at all provide information on international contracts on the requirement of the national MPs. People’s deputies, who according to legislation have access to state secrets, simply hide documents. The acting minister refers to contract terms as a commercial secret. But what may this be a commercial secret when it comes to the use of public funds in the state budget? It was because of these contracts that we had a history of unscathed drugs, which is why international organizations put drugs in Ukraine with a critical low expiration date. Because of the terms and conditions of these contracts, we have an inconvenient supply and a questionable quality of the drugs purchased. Today, hospitals are mass turning down children’s oncology drugs purchased by Crown because of a small expiration date. Preparations for child oncology are put in place for 6 months at the time of the 15 required. Crown denies his guilt, and because of this, according to contract conditions, there is a guarantee that there is no longer a cure. But it turns out in practice that there is no such mechanism. All of this should be stipulated in contracts. So the officials of the Ministry themselves don't have access to these documents, because they don't give them to us, or when they sign contracts because of their unprofessionality, they just didn't foresee it. Or is the Ministry afraid to publish treaty texts, for then everyone will see what conditions are actually under which cooperation with international organizations is taking place, and the MoH represents the interests of the State of Ukraine? The mystery surrounding the public procurement process has reached such an extent that even after the tenders have been completed and the contracts signed, the information from purchases is kept secret not only from representatives of public organizations but also from experts, from national deputies, from the Ministry itself. There is now no mechanism to control the conduct of purchases, and the rules of the tender are determined only by an organization that conducts them on terms and order as defined by it. Contracts have to be officially published, and public procurement procedures have to be open and transparent. We have every right to know how and under what conditions the budget is spent. What is the result of all this? A committee meeting was held today to recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers because of the work of the Ministry of Health. The Games of the Ministry of Health drag Kabmin to retirement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor. People's MP Kirichenko take the floor? Fishing. Please, National Fisherman. He is given the word of a fellow worker. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, yesterday’s financial day turned into a campaign. For months, our committee, and every Conciliation Council, I raise questions about the need for a financial and banking day for a sessional week. What did we see yesterday? As agreed, our bills had to stand as a priority, in the first place. In a strange way, however, draft laws, such as the Dragon Bills, have led a fellow MP to vote for them. The financial and banking sector issues came in second. What do we have on the way out? One Bill 6010 was voted in the first reading, the other Bill was not voted on at all. It's a disgrace! Today, I don't think the government is interested in reform, it's not about financing, it's about lending the real economy, it's about stopping the bankruptcy, it's about protecting people from the bankruptcy that have their money. We're on a committee outraged by this fact and we're going to do everything we can to ensure that the financial and banking day is a full day in Parliament as soon as possible. Because we think that the financial and banking sector is very important. Today, unfortunately, neither in power nor in the National Bank has a vision and an active plan for the development of the financial and banking system for 5-7 years. We've drawn up this plan on the committee, we've drawn up a series of laws, and we'll do everything we can to have these laws voted in Parliament. We're from the committee yesterday. We've had a lively discussion on this situation, and we're going to send a letter to the Chief of the Supreme Council, and we're going to demand another financial and banking day. Another very important question. My own Dniproperty. I was approached by the deputy head of the Supreme District Council in the Dnipropetrovsk region (or, our colleague in the Radical Party). At the local college of Dnipropetrov's National Agrarian Economic University, there is a threat that gas supply will be cut short. And they've turned off the lights in the south. I think it's a disgrace, it's an unacceptable fact, and we have to do everything we can for students to be able to learn and learn. I sent MPs to the Minister of Education, the Minister of Internal Affairs, and the Minister of Energy. I believe that we must intervene immediately and that we must not allow today’s students to learn in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u140	Thank you. Colleagues, the last speaking out for today. My colleagues at the Radical Party complained that I had missed the national deputy Lensky, who was to pass on the word to Mr. Galasyuk. Please make the final presentation, and we are closing today’s Friday session.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u141	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People. Instead of supporting the Ukrainian industry, manufacturing, and energy security, the authorities are imposing another tariff strike on their own manufacturer. On January 31st of this year, the National Commission for Energy and Utilities adopted a completely anti-government decision, which, according to industry associations, increased nearly six times the cost of connecting to electricity networks. This hit on the Ukrainian industry, this essentially increases the investment costs of those who plan to build some kind of production, it practically kills alternative energy, instead of doing demonopolization to contribute to the development of solar, wind and other energy, so that we don't depend on imported gas, on coal, but rather on an autonomous mode of energy generation, essentially the government does it to the opposite. This is an entirely unfounded and destructive solution for the Ukrainian economy. Moreover, as a result, there is an absolutely critical threat to the development of the regions of Ukraine. Because what the NCRE has said is now the cost of joining the power lines in Poltava is three times more expensive than in Kiev, you'll think about who's going to be in the regions building any manufacturing facility, building or building alternative energy objects. To prevent this from happening, to restore the legality and normal investment climate, I, as deputy leader of the Radical Party of Economic Policy, appealed to Mr. Vuk, the head of this NCRE commission, asking for the output of the data on which these infamous looting tariffs were calculated. 20 days went by today, there's still no answer from NCRE, so I got an answer from those companies that were doing the evaluation, including Deloitte. And from this answer, it's absolutely clear that NCRE had no legal basis for counting these shameful tariffs, because Deloitt did not carry out an evaluation for the purpose of determining the pitiful value of joining the power grids. So there was a massive manipulation that I went to the NABU, the Attorney General's Office. To date, I have received an answer from the Attorney General's Office, which states that the facts I have presented are not within the competence of the Office of the Attorney General. And that's very sad because we understand what this is about. But we're not going to stop at that. Today, we are calling on the Radical Party faction to stop the violation of the rule of law by the leader of the NCRE Wolf. We also refer to the court for the restoration of legality and the annulment of this illegal decision, which destroys the investment climate in Ukraine, beats production and alternative energy. We need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-24-m0.u142	Thank you, thank you. We agree with the need to support a national producer. Colleagues, this week, celebrated the day of their native language. Thus, it is especially encouraging that those national deputies who, perhaps a few weeks ago, were afraid to speak in their native language, today, have mastered it. And we're seeing great progress, it's very happy the session room. I would like to remind you, Mr. President, that next week the national deputies are working with the electorate, and on the week of March 6 to 10, the national deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, March 14, at 10 a.m. And today, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. All fruitful work on committees, factions and voters.
