ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u1	Good morning. Dear colleagues, please enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for opening the session. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. Please register. [[10:07:19]] 365 national deputies registered. Dear colleagues, I declare this morning's meeting open. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Today, a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is held: Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman and members of the government. Welcome to our government. [[Applause]] The heads of the central executive branch, the heads of the judicial branch, the officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and agrees to serve, representatives of public organizations and the media, the heads of diplomatic representations of foreign nations. Hello. [[Applause]] Honorable colleagues, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced openly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! "Just don't go from Audiavka" is the words of a Ukrainian woman to a Ukrainian army; a woman who came to our soldiers after a week of shelling from the City of Audiwka, a Ukrainian city. Don't go. Hold on. They aligned the strategic situation on the front with the price of life for the better sons of Ukraine, who gave their lives for the sake of hope for millions, for our victory. Because the Ukrainian army today has become a hope for millions of our citizens, and not only in the Donetsk and Lugansk region, it has become a hope for the Ukrainians in the occupied areas of Donbas and the Crimea, it has become the hope and shield of all free Europe, and it has become the only great wall that separates Europe from the Travel Order. So first of all, on behalf of all Ukrainians and on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I would like to thank our soldiers who stopped the occupation. And allow me a moment of silence to mention the fallen heroes. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. The Ukrainian Parliament – and I have repeatedly stressed this – is the parliament of the warring country. Foreign diplomats are present today at the opening of the sixth session. I would like to thank you and the peoples of your countries separately for the invaluable support we have received in the free world on the issue of sanctions on the aggressor and on the issue of assisting our country in the war against the barbarians of the 21st century, the Russian Gulf. [[Applause]] We all have to realize that the war is not just in Ukraine, it's going to be in the heart of Europe. Putin's bloody Russian roulette is a challenge to the entire civilized world. The aggression against free Georgia, the killing of civilians, women, and children in Syria at first, is a war against Ukraine. Who's next on the list of the crazy Kremlin killer? Thus, for the Ukrainian Parliament today, the issue of defence and security has become an absolute priority. Since the seventh call, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted 155 laws that are valid for defending the country. About a hundred laws on the social protection of our soldiers, among the last two-pronged laws, are the Special Operations Force Act, another step and a step towards strengthening the security of the state. I would also like to point out that it is this Supreme Council of Ukraine that has approved all the submissions made by the Attorney-General concerning the elimination of the inviolability. My position as Head of the Supreme Council is that all submission in these walls should be supported. I would also like to thank the parliamentary deputies who, as delegations, have been telling the truth about Russian aggression against Ukraine in the international arena. In a hybrid war, under the conditions of total Russian propaganda and misinformation for which billions of rubles are spent by the Kremlin, this work is priceless. Hundreds of meetings were held by national deputies with our foreign partners. The continuation of sanctions against the aggressor, the non-admission of the Russian delegation to South Africa, is also the result of our joint work. Another important indicator of the Supreme Council's ability to work is the adoption of all without exception of the EU's visa waiver laws, and we have done so in this room. And at the same time, colleagues, we have to admit that the level of mistrust in the Supreme Council today is critical, and this is really a big problem that we have to rethink and ask, why is that? I see two reasons. The first relates to the low level of responsibility of our colleagues and the banal desire not to go to work. Neither I, nor anyone in this room will be able to explain to millions of Ukrainians, pensioners, doctors, teachers, soldiers, why there is no national deputy at work on the day of work? No one can explain, looking into the eyes of the boys frozen in the trench of the eastern front, why aren't you in the parliament of the warring country? Convinced, like most in this room, the absence of an MP in the workplace during the war is unacceptable. It's just mean. [[Applause]] As I have used, I will take all measures to promote discipline. But, colleagues, without rethinking each of our roles and responsibilities to the boys on the front page, it will be difficult for us to regain the trust of society. There's no time for work in the session room? Assemble your mandates and engage in your own private business. [[Applause]] We have the majority in the very active, active, professional deputies. But there is this part of the lack of discipline that dishonors the highest legislative body in the warring Ukraine. Let's fight this together. The second reason is to try to destabilize Parliament through internal political hostility. Today, it is firmly stated that the plan aimed at destabilizing and paralyzing the country’s main legislative body has failed. Parliament is working. With all the challenges that we have faced, we have not allowed ourselves to block and throw the Supreme Council into a squabble because we have no moral right to repeat the mistakes of the past. Because the formula "two Ukrainians" is a formula and a technology that comes to us from the Kremlin that leads to one: the loss of independence. As I was saying, priority is the defense of the country. All laws aimed at protecting against Russian aggression will be paramount in this room, and they will be voted on. We need to continue the judicial reform. Continue to reform decentralization, deregulation and legislation for small and medium-sized businesses. I'm sure it's important for us to update the CBC warehouse in the near future. After a long discussion, I believe that we will soon consider and resolve the matter. Another important issue is the approximation of Ukraine's safe legislation to the North Atlantic Alliance standards. One priority is to harmonise the legislation of NATO and Ukraine. And I support the initiative for a referendum on NATO accession. Ukraine must become an important and integral part of the global security system. In the humanitarian front. During the last session, we adopted a number of impeccable humanitarian laws. In fact, the legislature completed the process of decommunization. Thousands of Communist idols no longer poison the Ukrainians ’ national memory. We restore justice to the Ukrainian language. The Act on quotas for Ukrainian music on radio broadcasting has entered into force, which we have adopted here together. I am convinced that this session of Parliament will not be an exception. Step by step, we will bring back to life our history and our language. Dear colleagues, Ukraine has never had such a fighting army and such a level of patriotism. Today, the nation's mobilization rate is at its peak. It's also felt in the trenches of the Light-Earth, it's felt in the scattered Russian cities of the Austrians, it's felt in queues to give blood to wounded fighters in Dniper and dozens of Ukrainian cities. But the level of responsibility for each of us must be maximum. I believe I am confident that in this session we will be able to demonstrate a high level of responsibility, the responsibility of the MPs of the warring country. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I would also like to welcome with birthday our colleague of the Ukrainian National Deputy Irina Stepanovna Lucenko. Let's welcome Mrs. Irina together! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's thank the government in charge of the Prime Minister, all those who participated in the opening of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have to work. To interaction, to new victories! Thank you! Colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. I'm reminding you that at the time of the recording, all factions have to participate in the recording and record. And please prepare for the recording, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I already have. I've been there before. Colleagues, please record statements from factions and groups. Please sign up. Before I give the floor to the factions who are registered, I give the floor first to Labazuku Sergio Petrovich of the "Will of the People" Group. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this week's agreement on the technical issues of the memorandum of cooperation with the IMF is due to be completed. What did Finance Minister Alexander Daniluk say yesterday? Society was very concerned about the 12-point project that came to the media in mid - January. That is why we call for a closed meeting with representatives of all parliamentary groups, with the participation of the President, before accepting the agreed requirements. We've already heard that by the end of 2018, Ukraine is planning to get eight more tranches, a total of $9.9 billion. Did anyone ask the question, Where have the billions already gone? It would be appropriate to report on this at a closed meeting where Kabmin would clearly explain to the people of Ukraine where the funds went today. If retirement age is removed from the agenda, Daniluk said, the issue of the sale of agricultural land is now actively on the agenda. And do we have the moral right to sell land without solving the key problems of failing to make an assessment without carrying out an inventory of the land without providing access to the land today primarily to Ukrainian farmers? If we open the market for the earth today, we will give access to our only wealth to foreign wallets that will come and make slaves of our Ukrainians. A number of measures are needed, and only then can we talk about justice. Instead, we see unscrupulous haste, following the will of the IMF. What will this accomplish? The Ukrainian village will be destroyed, jobs closed, and Ukrainians, especially young people, will seek a happy life outside our country, far away, not for the future for us. Look at this: At least 30 percent of Ukrainians want to go abroad on a permanent basis. About 40 percent are willing to work abroad. And that's up to seven and a half million people who have been abroad for a long time looking for a better life for themselves. So the question is, who's going to rebuild the Ukrainian economy today, who's going to create the added value? The state can't even provide for its young people, out of those patriotic considerations that decided to become civil servants. Then, with the approval of the budget for this year, they cut the official salary twice. In the state, the minimum wage is 3,200, but not for civil servants. The public service is completely balanced. And today we need to think and care about how to restore justice. The MP's "will of the people" emphasises that today's session of the Supreme Council is crucial in many ways. Either we solve the challenges facing the state and society, or it will be our last.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u8	Thank you. From the Radical Party Popov Igor conveys the word Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u9	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. First of all, we thank our courageous defenders, the military forces, the rescuers, the energy workers, the volunteers, the volunteers -- all those who are protecting the country on the eastern front today, saving Audiowka, saving Mariupol, saving our Ukrainians today from Russian aggression. At the same time, we need to realize that a strong army, a strong diplomacy, a strong Ukraine, a powerful, competitive Ukraine is only possible under a strong, developed national economy based on national production. Therefore, the Radical Party offers society, unlike the plundering policy of today’s Compradorian authorities, the Radical Party offers a strategy for recovery, economic recovery, national reconstruction, poverty reduction strategy, and the creation of new jobs for Ukrainians. That's why we're demanding the government and not only demanding it, but we're proposing radically raising salaries, pensions of citizens, citizens' incomes and all those who told us before the new year, that we shouldn't raise minimum wages, because that's populism and bad, and I want to tell you, because you're against Ukrainians because you don't live on those minimum wages because you want Ukrainians to be always poor and to be beggars and live on taxes from power. And that's why the Radical Party requires the government to immediately submit to Parliament about increasing pensions for pensioners, overcoming the income of the Pension Fund in January 40 percent, is a resource to raise pensions. We demand that we finally execute the program and give people the free drugs we agreed on, the government guaranteed, but unfortunately we don't see these free medications today for the Ukrainians who need it first. Next. National Security Strategy. On February 17th, there will be a conference of security in Munich, there will be world leaders, there will be the President of Ukraine. We demand that the President put before the world leaders the requirement to implement the Budapest Memorandum, to make a direct military agreement with the United States, Great Britain and other countries that guaranteed Ukraine independence and sovereignty in exchange for nuclear weapons. We thank the diplomats for their support, but at the same time we are against turning Ukraine into an orphan. Ukraine will have economic growth when Ukrainians have jobs and wages. That is what we offer to our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u10	From "Fatherland" Timoshenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u11	The Audience is grief, pain, death, the heroes who have fallen for our freedom, the preservation of statehood, the people who suffer immensely. It is quite clear that a new escalation of the military conflict has begun, in fact, the war against Ukraine. When I listened carefully to the speech by the Head of the Supreme Council, he said many times in his speech the word "war," "occupation," "our army," "defense," "death." But today we don't notice that on the basis of the escalation that's taking place on the eastern front, there's been a wave of propaganda around the world from the Russian Federation about what we have in civil war. You know our team was in the United States for a week. Some seniors said they didn't believe we had a civil war here in Ukraine, and we needed to settle the relationship between the people themselves. And that's why right now we need to change our attitude toward everything that's going on in the east. We have to stop saying "ATO" like mantras. It's not an ATO, it's a war. Finally, we must put an end to all this fraud and implement the 106th article of the Constitution and finally bring the war situation to an end in Donetsk, Luhansk district. And that's the first step towards peace, because it's the protection of our citizens who live in occupied territories, it's the protection of our territory, it's the protection of our military, who are now completely unwarrantedly accused of looting when they're actually doing their duty to protect the state. And we must finally recognize the occupied territories as occupied, not as effectively controlled territories of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Stop this deception and the world will realize that we really appreciated these events as war and began to defend ourselves. But at the same time, we need to ask the President to issue a War Status Order, we need to adopt the Occupied Territories Act, and we need to stop the economic and social collapse that is taking place in Ukraine. The people are destroyed financially and economically, and that is why we will initiate the resignation of Prime Minister Groisman and his government. Enough bullying and putting people on the verge of survival. A non-professional government must be replaced. Country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u12	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u13	The country must be given effective guidance to Ukraine, or we will all be associated with what is happening in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, we are witnessing today that we are losing part of the territory in the east that is occupied, and unfortunately there is no Ukrainian authority today, there are gangs, gangs that have abused people and destroyed this part of the territory of Ukraine. But there are problems in the middle of the country. We see that the administrative-territorial system of Ukraine begins to collapse today. Every ministry, every department today essentially creates and cuts a new map of administrative districts in Ukraine in the areas and areas of Ukraine. The DFS, the prosecutor's office, the courts, the police are making their own circuits, creating their administrative structures in a way that is convenient for them today, coming out of their economic capabilities, coming out of their regularity, depending on which organs are formed, in which areas. That can't be right. The last example we saw of what I was talking about yesterday is the so-called decision to create hospital districts in Ukraine. This is the map they offered us how they would be created here. In each area there will be between 3 and 5 hospital districts. That means 3-5 main hospitals, and all the other hospitals, what's going to happen to them? Area hospitals, FAPs, how will they develop? This means that each hospital should serve between 300 and 700,000 people. Where do these hospitals go in every area, 3-5 of these hospitals? It's a budget, it's creating, it's building every hospital like this, 300 to 500 million dollars at least. There's no such thing today. We're going to go through this pseudo-reform again, and we're going to destroy the remains of what exists in Ukraine in the medical field, we're going to eliminate the district hospitals, and people are going to be left without medical care at all. I'm talking to the government. We have to stop this vacchanal, we have to stop all the government restrictions from cutting down our own districts, as they like, through their budgetary funding, their state schedule, and so on. We need to get back to the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. There are districts and people need to know that she's coming to the district, and there's police, there's prosecutors, there's courts, there's a district hospital, and so on. Today, a system is being built that will not be known where to go — in one district its prosecutor’s office, in the other, the landowners, in the fifth, the hospital, and so on. Sorry, this scheme is utopian. We're destroying this state system ourselves. That's why I'm talking to the government. Let's hear, first of all, the health minister, what they're planning to do with these hospital districts, with hospitals, how they're going to fund, who're going to drive people, where they're going to get cars, how they're going to fund all these facilities, so we don't lose the district hospitals, and the FAPs, and we're not going to see these future hospitals. And the second. I'm calling the government: lead the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u16	Please give me 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u17	I'm calling on the government: let's still give the centralised government authorities a plan to bring their territorial units into line with the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Opposition Block is the People's Deputy of Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u19	Dear people of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I am speaking from this rostrum after the last week I was in Avdeevka, and not once, and met, including in other areas of Ukraine, with large industrial enterprises. And I ask now to listen carefully to what people say and what people demand of power. Avdeevka. The whole country is now united to help this peaceful city, and the whole country is united around the war. And Parliament must now say its big word and finally step away from the empty speeches and start doing something. We have registered today a draft Supreme Council regulation on addressing heads of State, leaders of the “normal” format in order to convene an emergency meeting of the “normal” format, and we demand that this issue be put to the floor and voted if Parliament really wants to do something. The second crucial issue is that in February Ukraine is the head of the United Nations Security Council, an opportunity for Ukraine and an opportunity for Ukraine to make decisions that are important and necessary for Ukraine. This is the opportunity that needs to be taken today, but to approach this issue with due consideration and to move away from radicalism. Patriotism is not radicalism. And unity is not an empty slogan, it is a public policy and it is a programme of concrete action that needs to be done. We need a pragmatic national policy, a new agenda, a new strategy. In industrial enterprises, people are very concerned about the fate of their family, the fate of the enterprise, the fate of the country. In a State that has been based on industry, a heavy industry, for many years, there is not even a Ministry of Industry. Our industry today has a huge army of officials, pays excessive tariffs for gas, water, transport, many other things, and the industry is actually being taxed, beaten, and offered nothing in return. We need to return to traditional markets, we need to stop the internal market, we need to negotiate with the European Union to revise quotas. Last year the quotas were actually set in two months, this year it will be faster. The opposition bloc has collected over 200,000 signatures under our anti-crisis aid programme in three weeks. This is a doubling of tariffs, and an increase in minimum wages and a double increase in pensions, this is the support of our industry for jobs, jobs, wages and, of course, anti-crisis bills aimed at restoring peace and functioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u20	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! We ask, we demand, and the people of Ukraine demand, let's move away from simple rhetoric, from simple slogans that often sound from this rostrum for one reason, in order to increase the current ratings, and finally the Ukrainian Parliament must start working for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u22	Thank you. From the Samohelp faction Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich. Passes the word to Jehor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u23	Yesterday, near the Ukrainian Bahmut, Ukrainian police attacked the veterans of this war for independence: gas poisoning, kicks in, sticks in the head. The only fault of these veterans is that they opposed the blood trade, which is the trade in occupied areas. All observed the attack on Audiavka last week, the whole country, but few people in the country guessed that two tens of miles to the right of the Audiavka echelon followed the echelon every day from and to occupied territories trade in vast quantities. The responsibility of the entire state, the responsibility of the Ukrainian Security Service, the responsibility of Parliament, the responsibility of the government has been assumed by veterans. Their gratitude, including their defenses in 2014, came to them with gas, sticks, and criminal matters. Veterans will be able to protect themselves if the new Berkut led by new leaders and the old aunts have forgotten as soon as the Mayan attacks are over, society will soon remind them. We have a request to the people, to the real people who are in this Parliament: let us come to their aid. We ask the Committee on Law Enforcement to convene a special session tomorrow with Andri Kozemyakin to consider this attack, to consider the personal responsibility of the pre-Sevastopol General Abroskin. Consider the responsibility of the minister of the interior without which such operations should not be possible. We ask the entire Ukrainian Parliament to do its job: to adopt a law that will make this blood trade illegal. You can't trade with the state that's arming and killing our people for this money. You can't trade with a country that's attacking Ukraine from the outside and from the inside. It's a simple rule we haven't studied with you yet. Self-help asks all MPs to join our initiative and adopt the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, and Parliament becomes a place to investigate and hold accountable those people who want to become new sugars to new roots, new catas of this state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u24	From the People's Front, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich passes the word to Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u25	Good afternoon! The People's Front faction urges the Ukrainian Parliament to be prepared for a scenario that will try to impose on our country from the outside. Since these are serious threats to national security, the People's Front faction claims the need to adopt the strategy and plan for the liberation of Crimea and Donbas. The President of Ukraine, as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the guarantor of State sovereignty and territorial integrity, must give society this strategic vision, present it in Parliament, and parliament must support it. The approved plan for the occupation of Crimea and the hostile areas of eastern Ukraine is a progressive algorithm that unites the entire government. The liberation from occupation must be a national idea for the coming period. The "Norman Four" is to be joined by the United States and Britain as security guarantors of Ukraine under the Budapest Memorandum. The work of forming an anti-putin coalition is the professional activity of our power without disgraceful toilet diplomacy, pulling over the sleeves of the world's politicians for a domestic cheap pianist. The People's Front sees Ukraine's future in full NATO membership. At the same time, we find it irresponsible that there is still no permanent representative of the mission of Ukraine to NATO. Part of the strategy of stopping an aggressor is to build a state border. On the other side of the border, there must be an area of viciously aggressive "Russian measure" on this side of the border where the territory of Western democracy and European values begin. If we want to separate the country from the aggressor, we need to rebuild the state border by increasing funding. Defense projects that are important to protect our nation must be beyond political speculation and internal political struggle. On the contrary, a project like the European Wall is to be the subject of patriotic lobbyism. Victory over the aggressor is an increase in the domestic economy. Even for those who live east of the European Wall, for the people of the Russian dimension, the high standards of living in Ukraine are convincing agitation and propaganda of the free world that opposes the Putin regime. The People's Front reminds us that in the most difficult times since the Dignity Revolution, the government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk has been able to preserve macroeconomic stability, the army created, the government has been able to pay wages and pensions, and a reform of energy, subsidies and energy efficiency, government administration, and public procurement has been initiated. And now, in early 2017, it was time to fill the potential of private investment in the country. After the Nationalization of Private Bank, the state became the largest player in the banking sector of Ukraine. This opportunity needs to be used to make loans more accessible to small and medium-sized businesses as well as to the population. This is the constitutional responsibility of the head of the NBA. For us, it's a very important course of stability and business activity. You have to put blood into the body of the economy in the form of powerful financial flows by mobilizing internal possibilities. It is also necessary to go back to implementing privatization projects without hysterics, convulsions and be-be-be-be to sell state-owned enterprises, filling the budget with revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u26	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u27	Investments in manufacturing. Ukrainian produce. The shame Ukraine experienced with the privatisation of the Odessa Port Factory needs to be placed in a dot. As we remember, it was because of the traffic barriers that the politicians called themselves that the competition was broken down, and the state’s losses amounted to $500 million. 2017 is the last year for effective reforms. Next is preparations for elections, promises and populism. I call on everyone in the Hall to unite to carry out the historic mission of Parliament, the building of the European independent state of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u28	Thank you. Bublik Yuri Vasilovich gives the word Alexia Honcharenko of "Peter Prashenko's Block". Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u29	Alexi Hotcharenko, Peter Dusty Block. Dear friends, the sixth session of the Supreme Council begins at a very tense moment for Ukraine. Starting on January 29, Russian occupying forces, with the support of terrorists, are attacking Audiowka. To this end, they use artillery prohibited by the Minsk Accords of Calibra, reactive fire systems. The enemy artillery runs through residential buildings, schools, hospitals, and critical infrastructure: electricity, water, and heat. This anti-human is an anti-human! – the system and practice became Putin's business card. This is what he did in Syria, in Aleppo. What's the point? The goal is to cause panic, the goal is to cause fear in society. But this did not work out in Ukraine, and Ukraine’s unbreakable Armed Forces did not back down. The diplomatic front led by the President quickly and effectively informed the world’s public about what was happening in Ukraine and what Putin’s objectives were. The Ukrainian government, on short breaks between the shootings, was able to restore the heat-, electricity supply of the Audio. The Ukrainian society, including the National Deputies of the Petra Poroshenko Block, organized a humanitarian aid stream for the people of Audiavka and the Ukrainian military on these days. We have demonstrated again to ourselves and to the whole world that when we are together, we are unbreakable and we are invincible. But see if everyone has come together in such a difficult time for the country. In a few kilometres, Ukrainian coal deposits were blocked — coal extracted from Ukrainian mines by Ukrainian miners, who pay taxes to the Ukrainian budget, coal extracted from Ukrainian thermal power plants in order to deposit heat into Ukrainian buildings. And those who do say they're patriots of Ukraine, or maybe they're diversans? Or are they just politicians? See what happens next: while some national MPs are in Audiavka, near Audiavka, helping her residents, Ukrainian military, others are on the air of propaganda Russian television as Mr. Shufric and say that Ukraine is to blame for what is happening in Audiavka, and they are tossing applause on Russian television with Russian propagandists. What is it? If "The Opposition Block" is not a Fifth Column, they have to immediately exclude Shufrich from the faction. As a faction of WFP, we demand to investigate such actions and declarations by the National MP, if we can call him a National MP. Ukraine today needs unification. We all went to Parliament from different parties under different slogans, from different political powers to different parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u30	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u31	But today we must reject everything that separates us for the sake of Ukraine, which we have alone. We need to unite in order to give a worthy return to our enemies both inside and outside. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to invite all the national deputies to the hall right now. We will begin work immediately by confirming the order of the day session. And I'd like you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. And while the MPs enter the hall, I give you a minute, a word for a speech by Oksani Korchinska with information from Audio, medical care and peaceful residents, and our soldiers. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u33	Praise Jesus Christ! This scrap of Russian troops from the Russian tank "T-90" used Russian shells to shoot our hospital in Audiovac. Three shells were lying near our hospital, near the site where we are at this moment, all the military, civilian and our paramedics, loaded our wounded, loaded and received our civilians, wounded. This is the kind of projectile that came from us on the way to our "quick help," unfortunately, the OSCE refused to lock down all these days all these three shells that were lying there, and I came and brought this piece of junk so everyone could see what Russia was fighting with Ukraine. Once again, all they were hoping to do was shoot down our peaceful medical facility in Krasnogorovka, which is behind the Audio, then they dropped ten shells on our nine, where.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u34	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u35	Where there was a 72 brigade medical unit. All they hoped for was that we would leave the Audio. This has never happened. Three hours after our hospital was shot down, all our evacuation units, volunteers: ASAP, Gospitaliers -- were in full stock in Java. During this week, they saved our military, civilian, our volunteers, 81 military and 12 civilian populations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to our first position in our agenda. This is about the order of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On Monday, February 6, at the Conciliation Council, I announced that, as we formed the order of the day’s sixth session, we had not yet received all the suggestions, especially from the committees. Another seven committees have not submitted their proposals to the full agenda of the day, and a complete document regarding the order of the sixth session is not yet available. And in view of how this was and in the previous session, I proposed to the Conciliation Council, either to present my proposals to all committees today or to vote on the agenda for this week. Since the proposals have not yet come from the committees and have been asked by them to give them an opportunity on Wednesday to make proposals from the committees, my colleague, I propose to approve the agenda for the week and let's exchange thoughts on that issue to make a common position. Colleagues, I ask you to record: two for, two for, against this issue. Please. Babak Alona Valerievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u37	I'd like to give it to Semensi Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the self-help faction calls for the adoption of the agenda of this plenary week, and, as for the review of the agenda for the entire session, I urge and draw your attention to the most important laws that promote business development and the protection of the interests of our nation and national security. First of all, it is the Law on Temporary Occupied Territories, which will consolidate the status and translate all responsibility into an aggressor of the Russian Federation. The second is the decision to release Mr. Nasirov and Mr. Bilan. I think that's enough to play with, and finally the Ukrainian Parliament has to do its function. The second is the State Language Act under number 5670. The next is a decree to release the Minister from the temporarily occupied territories of Mr. Chernish, who is actually acting as the Minister of Capitalization. And most importantly, the historic task of the current Supreme Council office is to adopt a new Law on the Election of People's Deputies for Open Lists with Regional Districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u39	Thank you. From the People's Front, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I am calling on everyone in this room to vote for the approval of the agenda, because that is what everyone needs. All the factions have passed their bills. And I support Andrija Volodymyrovich Paruba's position to vote this week to make proposals on Wednesday, and we finally voted in favour of the full agenda for this session. In particular, I want to point out that Thursday is in order of the daily Law on Confiscation of Money Stolen by the Janukovic regime. It's a government bill. It takes into account all the proposals made by all factions. All counterversal standards have been removed. I call on all the colleagues in this session room not to do this show, not to engage in populism, but at least to read this bill on Wednesday, and Thursday to vote. With what we're seeing right now after the events in audio, as again our Armed Forces of Ukraine have done, how the state executive power has supported Audiowka, and there's heat, and now peace and peace are restored. But I urge everyone now to vote in favour of a specific confiscation so that the money that was arrested two years ago by the government of Yatsenuk, which is in bank accounts, should be returned to the budget and should work to improve Ukraine's defence and national security and to raise social standards to socially vulnerable populations. So, colleagues, we're voting for this week's agenda, and Thursday's maximum mobilization of deputies in the hall to make Janukovitch's money finally return to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u42	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, let me be frank: this is the kind of lawlessness that exists today in the setting up of the agenda, but it probably has not been in Parliament's history. Someone's defining and saying that's what we're laying here, and that's what we're laying here, that's what we're looking at, that's what we're not looking at. Through sieves, all bills are passed depending on political views and beliefs. I don't know the principle of deputies. Repeatedly, foreign observers say that you are moving to a quota principle, give quotas to each faction to submit their bills to the Hall. Why do those social laws that we think are necessary today, "The Opposition Block," look, look, social protection of pensioners, people who have been deprived of their right to exist today, why do they just fly away through this sieve? Why do the laws relating to the reanimation of our industry not get here in the second, third? We're talking about decentralization. Let me give you an example. Here are two laws I have passed: 4,103 is an environmental charge and 4,495 is a excise charge. They've just been removed, they're gone, they don't exist today. They need to be refined. Who thought they needed to be refined? Why did he decide that they should be refined? As long as we form the agenda on the basis of such principles, I think he will vote every week or every day for such agendas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u43	From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. And, colleagues, now we're moving on to making decisions, please come in, we're taking jobs. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction has always voted in favour of approving the order of the entire session. And we believe that every national MP has the right to make those legislative initiatives, just like the President and the government they consider necessary and necessary for the country. Unfortunately, we see a double approach again. We have drafts. They're supposed to be rejected by the committees. I remind you, the committee's decision is only a recommendation. The final decision is taken by the Hall. For example, how can we reject a bill signed by a number of members of our faction, including Julia Timoshenko, to prevent illegal land secession? We think that there should be an agenda for the entire session, we should adopt it, not go in the daytime, weektime, because it's crippling all our work. About this week. We insist on that and we call attention to the hall, the profile committee and the government, that the so-called ratification of the Luxembourg agreement to avoid double taxation is a secondary bomb that relies on offshore operations in Ukraine. Our request that such things do not go through Parliament. And it's the committee's job to track things like this. That's why the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of the day-to-day order for the entire sessional period, so that all the laws that have been passed by the people's deputies without any additions will be further considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Once again, seven committees did not make a proposal, Mr. Sergei, and that was the case. One minute, the Radical Party, and we're moving on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! Most of you may not know that the vast majority of Ukrainians live very poorly. Therefore, the Radical Party faction demands that, in the first place, draft laws that will enable the people of Ukraine to overcome poverty, to give their jobs, to pay normal wages, and to allow them to feed their own families. We demand today, this week, to immediately put a bill on the cost of gas tariffs, because people can't pay for these tariffs. We demand that we put in place a bill to raise pensions for Ukrainian pensioners who cannot end. We require the government to submit to Parliament to create jobs for Ukrainians, to provide them with jobs and decent wages. What laws Parliament should consider!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u47	Thank you, fellows of honor! Let's move on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs, please prepare for the vote. Please. So I'm voting because a number of committees have not submitted their proposals for the agenda of the day session, and I'm putting a motion to vote to approve the agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this week, February 7-10. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote and please maintain the agenda for February 7-10. Colleagues, please support and please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:05:33]] For 180. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you once more of the national deputies to come into the hall. And I want to let you know that without the approval of the agenda, we have no right to ask any questions. In a week, yes. Without the approval of the agenda, we will not be able to ask any questions for consideration. We already have the next question of the draft Law amending the legislation on State support for children who are constantly living in the ATO area, we have a block of ecology today and we can't ask any questions unless we confirm the order of the day session. So once again, I ask all my colleagues to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready to vote, and I'll put this proposal to the vote again. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I ask you to show the previous vote on the board so we can see. By factions, please, by factions. Colleagues, please take your seats, invite the deputies into the hall. Did your colleagues please invite you to the hall? Everyone in the room, can we vote? My colleagues, once again, it's paralyzing our work if we don't maintain the order of the day right now. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Now we're moving on to making a decision. Once again, I don't put the agenda into the session just because not all the committees have made their proposals. And that's why there's a proposal from here -- the order of the day per week. So please come in, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm asked to wait another 30 seconds until the MPs come. I ask the heads of factions to invite as many as possible while the deputies enter the hall, from the "will of the people" there has not yet been a speech, I give Vladimir Litvin a minute, please, Vladimir Litwin. And please come into the hall, everyone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u48	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I carefully examined the proposals for this plenary week. I feel like there's nothing going on in Ukraine, and we think that the problems that surround Ukrainian society, people today, are going to suck on themselves, and we're going to make decisions, let's say how to protect the flora and the fauna. Let's make a decision to protect people first. And one more moment. Dear Head, I can't understand, let's say, what's the plan of work? On Thursday, a draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act was introduced at the end of last year, that is, December. Instead, for a year now, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a draft Law on the State Fund for Humanitarian Development, essentially the case, and it is not even considered an alternative. I don't understand a selective approach where there will be more votes for that bill to vote on, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u49	Thank you. My colleagues, I want to remind you of the tradition that started in the previous session: we have a block review, and today we have a cluster of environmental policy issues. There's a lot to discuss about the importance or insignificance of environmental policy, but nevertheless, both the committee and the ministry and our foreign partners think that this bloc is extremely important. And so today we have an information question. Two key blocks that have been proposed by the committees and that are to be prepared by the committees. I would like to stress, not the head of the Supreme Council, but the committees. And so, colleagues, I ask you now once again to support the proposal to vote on the agenda for the week. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting once again on the proposal to maintain the agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the week of February 7-10. Colleagues, please mobilize and please support, colleagues. Vote! Please back up! Vote. [[11:13:14]] For 211 Please, by the factions. We didn't make it. I see not all of them have made it. [[B in m in s a l in]] 47. 60. Colleagues, it's my turn. I'll put it to the vote again. Then I'm just going to have to announce the break and allow the MPs to be mobilized to work at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, colleagues, let's go into the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, may we vote? Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Please, I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the motion to approve the agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the week of February 7-10. Please take up jobs. Please vote, please support. Please, February 7-10, order of the day, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:16:06]] For 211 Thank you, 211. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, so now I'm going to put it to the vote again. If it doesn't pass, I would like to point out to you that we can address the issues that are with the President's proposals, we can consider the second reading and procedural issues that concern parliamentary hearings. So now I'm going to put the vote again. If the agenda isn't approved, we'll move on to the issues that the President is proposing. Then, unfortunately, we won't be able to enter the information policy because it's the first reading. But we will be able to go through the second reading and the question of re-examination with the President's proposals, as well as procedural issues, all of which concern parliamentary hearings. They're fine today. But I'll put it to the vote again. And I'm asking everyone to get ready, take your seats. And I'm putting to the vote once again the proposal to vote on the agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 7-10. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:18:25]] For 202 202 - for. The decision is not made. So we move on to issues that we can consider. And I'm looking at the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 28.10.2016 (No. 2009a). I remind you that those laws that are being considered on the President's proposals do not require a special decision, they take a vote after the President's report and the co-report of the Main Committee. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. The Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 October 2016 (2009-a-d) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on this basis. According to the law that has been signed, environmental impact assessments will be subject to activity in virtually all major areas of the economy. At the same time, the law does not take into account the specificities of the implementation of certain economic activities in the area of national security and defence, the activities in the area affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the accident at CHEUS, nor does the law address the need for immediate implementation of the important economic potential of the State of infrastructure projects. Secondly, according to the law, environmental impact assessments will be subject to the following types of planned activities: reconstruction and technical refurbishment, capital repair of buildings, expansion, retraining, which are not always associated with increasing environmental impact. Taking into account the above, the changes provided by law will create additional obstacles to the introduction of entrepreneurial activities and lead to unjustified material and other costs incurred by economic operators. In addition, individual provisions of the law will increase the time frame and make it more difficult to carry out arbitrary procedures to initiate planned activities. This approach is not in line with the principle of deregulation. It should also be noted that the law that came with the signature does not contain: a comprehensive list of reasons for refusing to issue decisions on environmental impact assessments, criteria, and the order in which environmental conditions are determined in such a decision may lead to increased corruption risks when deciding on the conduct of household activities. It should also be noted that the provisions of the law are not provided by clear mechanisms for their implementation, which are not in line with the principle of legal certainty. The law introduces administrative responsibility for environmental impact assessments, but it does not define an authority, an official with authority to deal with such an offence. In addition, the proposed legal mechanisms for examining, generalizing and taking public proposals into account are incomplete. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine cannot support the legislation proposed in view of the lack of legal regulation of the environmental impact assessment procedure, the creation of artificial barriers to the realization of the constitutional right to entrepreneurship and the possible negative effects on the economic development of the State. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and send him to the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u51	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Sorry, no, no. Now question to the reporter, three minutes. Please record the question to the reporter, please. Fish. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u52	Thank you for the thorough report on this bill. And this is no longer a question, but I would just like to urge you not to fail this really important bill. Because all the deputies in this room remember the fire in 2015 in Vasilkov, and the environmental disaster that has plagued all the inhabitants of the region to this day. So I urge everyone to support the President's proposal and to send them to a committee where this bill will be thoroughly discussed, all mechanisms have been worked out, including those that have not just been named for military objects and their implementation. And I think this bill is going to be supported by all of us after the committee's second reading in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u53	It's a performance, I understand. You won't answer. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to turn on the microphone on all three questions from the Fatherland faction at Rybchin College.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u55	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. It's the fifth or sixth time we've considered this bill, it's from the President's veto. This bill is needed by the Ukrainian business, which is a constant practice. This bill is needed by investors who want to invest in Ukraine but do not want to engage in corruption. This bill is needed by the Ukrainian people, who want to improve the quality of life. I have a question: why doesn't the President's Administration and its business partners need this bill? Why is he a dedicated and past bill, which we failed, which coalition failed, about the SEA and the U.S.A. don't need coalitions either? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I want to say that this law is needed by Ukraine, supported by the President, supported by the Hall. But it does indeed have disagreements that have just been claimed. That's why we don't propose to reject this bill. If you know the procedure, then the bill could be rejected, it could be aimed at working on the committee, or there could be suggestions that could be supported in the hall. So today's request: to focus, to support it to work on the committee, to bring these things that are already agreed upon, discussed both with the ministers of ecology, and with the deputies in the hall, with the profile committee, and to bring them to the hall as quickly as possible, and to really accept this bill, which will help us to implement these European directives and very many conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u57	Thank you. And the last question is Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u58	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Your Honor, I have a question for you. If you look at the content of that document that the President sent to Parliament by vetoing this law, it actually contains a list of observations, and the Supreme Council Rules, article 32, require that the President, by vetoing it, make reasoned and formulated proposals. How can you comment that, in fact, the President's veto statement does not contain proposals for law, rather it contains observations to individual norms?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. And I want to tell you that at the moment, there are proposals that are made that are clearly understood by the people's deputies, that are clearly understood by experts and that allow the law to be amended as quickly and as quickly as possible to correct the things that unfortunately are there today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u60	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. And I invite you to report to the Co-Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Edna Ostak Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! I would, especially when I consider this bill, ask for unity in the hall, an appropriate appearance, because literally half an hour ago, we were all tearing shirts off, telling us what horrors are going on in audiovac, how difficult it is for our soldiers, medics, Yemenis and so on. But we have to show how we work in the hall, and we have to prove it through real things, real appearances and real voting in Parliament. We are all very concerned about the international image of Ukraine. But we need to understand that if, God forbid, we are about to break this law after two first readings in Parliament, carefully preparing for the second reading, and, unfortunately, the President's veto, Ukraine's image will suffer. Because on February 20, we will have a review of this bill in the Aarhus Convention Committee and there is a risk that Ukraine will be deprived of its rights and privileges under the Aarhus Convention for compliance with this international instrument. And this will be an absolute disgrace to Ukraine, because it will actually mean that we do not adhere to democratic rights and procedures. The corresponding note has already been sent to our foreign minister Klimkin. As I said, the bill went through two first readings in Parliament. In preparation for the second reading, hundreds of amendments were taken into account. Business, the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, various professional associations were involved in its development and discussion. What did not please the President's Administration could only be guessed because the motivated and formulated proposals for the environmental impact assessment bill were not made. So you can make different arguments, but that's what we have now. Our committee, on the other hand, is prepared by the Committee on Environmental Policy to consider in a transparent manner the proposals and comments of the President’s Administration and, perhaps, in the fifth place, to work on it until adoption in the Hall. So I urge the people's deputies of all factions to take responsibility for this bill and not to fail it, as we did because of our own irresponsibility with the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act just a few weeks ago. So I call for unity in the hall, for proper voting and for our committee's proposal to return the bill to work and not to embarrass Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u62	Thank you. Please record the question. Stay, Mr. Ostap, stay in the rostrum. We have three minutes to ask the reporter. Ribchin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u63	Mr. Ostap! Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. You know that the Energy Community Secretariat has opened the procedure." for Ukraine because we don't answer. Ukraine is not in line with European legislation and can open up against us, indeed, bad conduct. Please tell me how much your committee is for if this bill is voted today, how much your committee can handle when you have it. whether you are already scheduled to hear this bill and whether your committee is ready to redraft this bill as soon as possible with proposals and submit it to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u64	Please, Gopka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! I'll probably answer Mr. Alexi's questions. In fact, we have already made amendments that, on the one hand, will be able to comply with the bill with the European directives, where we have a commitment, and on the other hand, will try to take the best possible account of the proposals of the President's Administration. So we're ready literally in the shortest term, and maybe even try by February 20 to avoid getting sanctioned by the Aarhus Convention, taking note and working out an improved version of the draft law. But I want to say that as long as the Supreme Council passed this law on October 4th, we were welcomed by both the European Energy Community and the European Commission, everyone was very pleased with how Ukraine, how the Ukrainian Parliament dealt with the issue of our European integration and the implementation of the Association Agreement. So now it is our responsibility to save the image of Ukraine and to vote responsibly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u67	Dear reporter! The Aarhus Convention Compliance Committee reviewed the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, and he said in principle that if the law had not been promised by the President of Ukraine, which was indeed a major offense, then Ukraine would have fully complied with all the requirements of the previous U.N. Council. Tell me now how much your committee can do by February 20th when there's a meeting of the parties and they're giving an assessment of what Ukraine's doing can actually do. Since we've already seen the letters sent by the Committee to assess Mr. Klimkin's Aarhus Convention, we've seen the letters sent to our Minister Semerak, we've seen the letters sent to your committee. How can we save the image of Ukraine, and what should parliament do to ensure that we are not disgraced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u68	Mrs. Anna, thank you for asking. As I said before, this could be an international scandal, such behaviour by Ukraine and the failure to comply with the rules and procedures of the Aarhus Convention. In particular, the Aarhus Convention Compliance Committee in this letter made it clear that the procedures outlined in the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act were entirely consistent with the convention. I mean, there's no comment from the Aarhus Convention Committee on the draft law. Our committee, once again, is ready in the shortest possible time to take into account the comments of the President's Business Climate Administration in Ukraine, and so on and so on for the 20th time, we can present a revised bill. So now it's a question of a responsible vote in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Ostap! I'm interested in your attitude towards the President's proposals to get the Croatprom company effectively out of this law? I recall the other President's veto of the Law on Enhancing Transparency of State-owned Enterprises, especially Ucroborprom Enterprises, that he brought them out of the law, where supervisory boards, audits, annual reports were published. Is this a trend? And, in principle, your personal attitude on this? Next, what are some of the characteristics of entrepreneurship that are involved? What we've heard, actually, is from Mr. Gerasimov's report. What does that mean? And the last. It's a big request from us, from our self-help faction to consider this bill urgently and bring it into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u71	On defence issues, this issue is settled by many other laws. We can. We cannot really allow infrastructure objects, such as the defence complex, to be carried out without any environmental assessment. It's not even in Europe, it's nowhere in the world because it really affects the environment. But we have legislation on restrictions on access to state secrets and so forth, and these issues will be settled by separate legislation. There can be limited access to information, public participation, and this issue will be discussed on the committee, and it will be properly regulated, so that it is consistent, in particular, with international instruments. And in fact, if we show will and initiative, we can, even this week, have a consistent version of the law, and thus not get embarrassed by the Aarhus Convention committee and by the 20th, have already passed the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the last question of Oksana Jurinec. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. In a minute, we'll move on to making decisions. I invite all fellow MPs to come into the decision-making room. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u73	The conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration on the draft Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which does not conflict with European Union law and Ukraine's obligations, is to adopt an Association Agreement. It should be noted, for example, that the draft law sometimes contains more stringent requirements than the similar provisions of the ESA Convention and the European Union directives. Among other things, a list of activities and objects that can have a significant impact on the environment and are subject to impact assessments. Thus, part two of article 3 of the draft law provides that the first category of activities and objects that can have a significant impact on the environment and are subject to environmental impact assessments, in accordance with paragraph 15, includes the extraction and processing of beneficial fossils without their area. At the same time, according to paragraph 19 of Appendix 1 to the European Union Directive, as well as paragraph 16 of Appendix 1 to the ESA Convention, estimates are subject to careers and areas of open mining with a surface area of more than 25 hectares or areas of peat production with a surface area of that area.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please, you can take the job, Ostap Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs, we're going to vote. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the committee's first proposal to refer it to a committee for further work -- this position that's supported by everyone, at least everyone in the speeches has spoken and supported it. And only if she doesn't get the votes will the bill be rejected. So, colleagues, I'm stressing the committee's proposal is to send the committee for work and this is the shortest way that we can get the law in place. So it is this proposal that unites the hall that unites all those who speak. And I'm asking you to prepare, I'm voting on the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 28.10.2016 (2009a) to send to the Committee for further work. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:38:33]] For 243 243-yes. Decision taken. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day this is. The following question is the draft Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine (for the implementation of European environmental standards for the protection of rare species of animals and plants) (number 2604). It's a draft law in a second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u75	It's a second reading. Good afternoon, dear fellows! For your second reading, you will see a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on the implementation of European environmental standards for the protection of the environment, rare species of animals and plants (registration No. 2604). The aim of the law is to implement European environmental standards for the protection of the environment, rare species of animals and plants, as well as to protect against the destruction of species of animal, plant and plant species in the Red Book of Ukraine. The bill amends the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and Ukrainian Laws on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund and on the Ukrainian Red Book. In preparing for the second reading of the draft law, 11 comments and suggestions were received from Ukrainian national deputies, entities of the legislative initiative, of which six were rejected and five were taken into account, and editorial regulations were introduced that did not alter the substance of the bill. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of European environmental standards on the protection of the environment, rare species of animals and plants, registration number 2604, adopted on second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u76	Thank you. Colleagues, there are only a few amendments in this bill, four amendments. So please stay put, I'll walk through every one of them. 1-a, Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 3rd, I've been walking. Don't insist. 7th, I've been walking. Don't insist. 8th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u77	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill proposes to replace the term "fire and sanitation" with the phrase "fire and selective diagnosis of wild animals for animal health care." Such a proposal, however, is unwarranted because it can have a negative impact on the protection of natural complexes and natural reserves. Because one selective diagnostic shot solves the problem, such as the spread of infectious diseases. So what's the problem? There is a broad definition that refers to a series of different types of actions that are replaced by a very narrow definition exclusively by a selective diagnostic shot of wild animals. And this, of course. In this case, this will not contribute to the positive development of the situation. So I ask you to leave the current norm wider, which allows you to use a wider range of sanitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u78	Will you comment? Who. Do they insist on voting? Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the 8th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:43:06]] For-154 The decision is not taken. Nine, Lensky. Don't insist. 10th, Lensky. Don't insist. Thus we discussed all the amendments. Colleagues, thank you, Paul Volodymyrovich, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. This is a block of environmental policy and the implementation of European environmental standards for the protection of rare species of animals and plants. I think it's a question that needs to be brought together. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm betting on the vote. Yes, are they all in the hall? You asked to come to the hall? I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (with regard to the implementation of European environmental standards for the protection of rare species of animals and plants) (No. 2604) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. [[11:44:36]] For 225 225. I see you haven't made it, colleagues. During the vote, you have to be on the spot, I repeat several times, I repeat several times, colleagues. I would ask you very much to listen to my warnings that there will be a vote in a minute. I will put it again, but please continue to pay more attention to my warnings when the vote takes place. So the first sentence is to go back to the draft Law 2604. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:45:25]] For 245 245-yes. And I'm re-editing Law 2604 in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support me. [[11:45:50.]] For 254 254 – yes. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine that regulate relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature (for special water use). This is also a second reading. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts governing relations relating to the obtaining of documents of a permissive nature, according to registration number 3323. The bill proposes, inter alia, to authorize the granting of special water permits to the central executive body, which implements public policy in the field of water management. Do not refer to the special use of water users who take and use less than five cubic feet [5 m] of water per day, except those used for the production of beverages and fasciad drinking water. Identify a comprehensive list of documents provided by the water user to determine the right to special water use, and establish a comprehensive basis for ending the right to special water use. In preparing the bill for second reading, 28 proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies, 17 of them included, including partially and editorially, and 11 were rejected. In addition to the second reading, the procedure for granting special water use permits has been improved, the authorities have defined the authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s mandate to grant special water use permits, and so on. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts regulating relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature (registration number 3323) as a result of a second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Colleagues, not many amendments. One, Five. Don't insist. 2nd, Petaovka. Don't insist. Three, Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u81	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The proposal to replace the authority that grants special water use from the relevant local self - government and local executive authorities to the State Department is not appropriate, since it is the local authorities that are responsible for the complex economic and social development of the territories, and therefore they are expected to address the issue of special water and water supplies in the respective areas. Moreover, the granting of appropriate powers by the State Department is not in line with the granting of this authority to its territorial authorities. With this in mind, it is appropriate to keep the code of agreement on the use of surface waters mentioned above in the CEVC, as provided for in the current edition. The point is that the bill proposes that the relevant documents be issued by the State Department. I believe that it is right for the relevant documents to be issued by local authorities, accountable to local councils. That's right, because it's a local resource that needs to be budgeted. It's supposed to be listed by local authorities. So please consider the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u82	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, it's a really serious question. It was discussed, and our fellow MPs repeatedly asked this question. But we forget that we have voted in favour of reforming the water management system in Ukraine in general. And we've moved water resources management in our country into pool management. So actually all of these permits will be issued in places, but according to the principles of pool management. I'm giving you an example. The Dniester River passes through a series of areas. Upstream, the river is polluted, upstream, and downstream, another area. For example, there in the Hmelnicki is polluted, in the Winnicki no one knows what harmful substances are and when water can be collected. So that's exactly what this bill is for, so that this reform really works, the reform of Ukraine's water system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u84	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:50:53]] For 112 The decision is not made. Four, Five. Don't insist. 5th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Five o'clock, insists Levchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is my amendment to the same question. In fact, I still have a number of amendments that concern this issue, which were all rejected. Obviously, I can see from the position of the hall that I will not insist on the rest of the amendments on this issue, but I would like to comment. It's not just big rivers, it's all water. And it is obvious that even if you agree with the logic of the reporter, you would probably have to divide the fact that certain permits are issued by the State Department, some issue. Local authorities are responsible for certain permits. Because in all of the talk about so-called decentralization, in fact, what we see in reality is that all of the resource issues are concentrated in the center and concentrated in Kiev in order to produce officials who will then demand bribes from someone. Instead, on the question of where decentralization really needs to be done, something does not happen. So actually, I'd still like to try again on my amendment, but I understand the position of the hall. I don't insist on any other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u86	Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u87	Once again, it can be commented that the transition to the water pool management of Ukraine has created these incomprehensible things, but this law regulates them. And we will see that when this law is implemented in places, indeed, local self-government authorities, the territorial units of the central executive authority in the field of water management will provide all services to our business, to our citizens in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u88	Thank you. Are you insisting, Mr. Yuri? I'm putting to the vote amendment number five of the People's Deputy Levchenk. I didn't insist? He insists. Please vote. [[11:53:04]] For-97 The decision is not made. Six, Five. Don't insist. Eight o'clock, walking. Don't insist. Nine o'clock, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 10th, Petaovka. Don't insist. 11th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. My colleagues, we've actually been through all the repairs. I see Paul Pinzenick, what's his correction? Please turn on the microphone. Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u89	Dear Head, dear colleagues, I ask you to place on confirmation 3 amendments, this is amendment 7, number 16 and 21. All of these amendments significantly narrow down the scope of the law. In particular, Amendment No. 7 makes it possible for uncontrolled discharges of sewage into objects by secondary users. Amendment 16 de facto removes the mineral water extraction law. And amendment number one narrows down the list of documents to which it is due. the legal acts to be followed by documents to be submitted for special authorizations. On this basis, please place all 3 amendments: 7th, 16th and 21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u90	Ivan Petrovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u91	We don't deny it. In fact, we repeat ourselves twice in this bill. And so please also place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u92	I mean, the committee doesn't object, and I'm going to bet one at a time on confirmation. So the committee does not deny that those amendments will be withdrawn so that we do not vote for them. I'm explaining it correctly. And I'm going to vote one by one. So I'm voting on amendment number seven. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:55:09]] For 105 105. Not confirmed by seven. 16 revisions. Anyone who supports its confirmation, please vote. 16th. 16th. [[11:55:30.]] Z-91 91. Not confirmed. And the last 21 amendments. I'm betting on confirmation. Anyone who supports its confirmation, please vote. Please vote. [[11:55:52]] Z-91 No 21 revisions have been confirmed. Dear colleagues, we can go to the vote. I'm asking all the national MPs to come into the hall, and I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Now, one minute more to Ribak Ivan Petrovich, to make it clear what the vote is going to be. Please, Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, there have been several such serious discussions regarding article 49, which deals with the right to special water use. I'd like to quote the next two paragraphs under the transcript as they sound. "Special water use is paid and carried out on the basis of permission for special water use. Second water users pay the congregation for special water use on general grounds." This paragraph is proposed to be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u94	So I understand the wording in which we vote. So, colleagues, let's move on to decision-making and ask everyone to take up jobs, and I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine which regulate relations relating to obtaining documents of a permissive nature (for special water use) (No. 3323) as amended by the chairman of the subcommittee, Ribak Ivan Petrovich, on second reading and in general. Please, colleagues, vote and please support. Vote, please. [[11:57:54]] For the 220. We didn't make it, I see. Let me show you through the factions. Please, by the factions. Colleagues, now I'm going to put the vote back and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please, everyone, to take their jobs. All of you, colleagues? I see. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for Bill 3323. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote, please. [[11:58:49]] For 225 One voice. Colleagues, I'm putting the vote back to 3323. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[11:59:16]] For 236 326 – yes. And I'm re-editing Law 3323 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, second reading and as a whole. Colleagues, please vote, please support. [[11:59:42]] For 233 233-yes. Law accepted, colleagues. Colleagues, we have a break of 30 minutes under the 12-hour rule. And I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. At 12:30 a.m., everyone please come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u95	Colleagues, please come into the hall. Time spent for a break is over. I'm reminding you that we're looking at a block of environmental issues. This is a question in the second reading, and we can ask them without the approval of the order of the day. I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall and prepare for further work. Please. Colleagues, we have a bill on environmental policy that we insisted on at the end of the last session, and then I promised to put it into discussion, and this is the draft Law on the Extraction and Implementation of amber. I would like to remind you that a working group led by Irina Heratschenko has been set up, and today, two of the bills discussed in the working group are in the order of the day. That's how I announce the project. Burst Extraction and Implementation Act (No. 1351-1) And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich. Please, Paul Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, illegal amber production has been a huge problem for our nation for more than a year. It is not possible to estimate how much money has been lost to budgets of all levels of amber mafia activity that have taken control of solar stone production. Default market. The shadow market for amber is estimated at not one billion dollars. Unfortunately, at the beginning of this year there were events that led to the loss of life by two Ukrainian citizens, and unfortunately, they took place not only in Zitomirsk, but also throughout Ukraine. Almost two years ago, in the first reading, Bill 1351-1 was passed, which improves the legal regulation of relationships with amber production and implementation. The committee was formed by a working group composed of national deputies, representatives of the public, representatives of various ministries. The working group held a large number of varied round tables of field meetings. A total of 400 proposals were made to the committee, of which 154 were taken into account and 247 were rejected. A number of comments to the bill were made by the Chief Legal Authority. However, given the urgent need for adoption of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft on amber production (number 1351-1) to be adopted in a second reading. It should be noted that after this, another working group was formed, led by Irina Heratschenko, as a result of the work of this working group, it was recommended that the bill be sent back to read again. It should also be noted that the government has made changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code, which are aimed at introducing a state monopoly and State control over the production and implementation of amber, thus increasing the rent rate by almost five times. In addition, the government's decision gave the state firm Burstin Ukraine permission to develop work projects on amber mining. Such questions arise. This raises the question of how the government plans to implement the planned amber plans and how this affects decentralization, because it is in our bill that it is intended to reinforce the role directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u97	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u98	To increase the role of district councils and to enable all those who are currently engaged in this mining, i.e. to involve guardians. This bill is proposed by the committee in its second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u99	Thank you. Let's go to the right. Please be prepared for discussion and work by the right-wing authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. My fellow Members, a great deal of amendments have been prepared to this bill, so we will now be moving along the table, and I ask you to closely monitor the national MPs for their amendments. So the first amendment of the national deputy Gabrieluk. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 2nd People's Deputy Krivenka. Don't insist. Amendment number four, national deputy Gabrieluk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 5, Sidorchuk, National MP. Don't insist. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputies of Gulyev. Don't insist. If she didn't see anyone, she didn't notice. Amendment 8, Sidorchuk, National MP. Don't insist. Amendment number nine, National Deputy Tchacouk. Don't insist. Amendment number 11, Blackwolf Tetjana. Don't insist. Amendment 12, Blackwall. Don't insist. The 15th, the Sousoleum. Don't insist. Tchacouk, 16th. Don't insist. 17th, Blackwall. Don't insist. Guilty, 18th Amendment. Don't insist. 19th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 24th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 26th, Diditch. Don't insist. Blackwall, 27. Don't insist. 30th, Diditch. Don't insist. 31st, Souslaw. Don't insist. 33rd, Blackwall. Don't insist. Didic, 34th Amendment. We don't see him insisting. Amendment No. 35 of the People's Deputy Didic. Don't insist. 38th, Didic. Don't insist. 39th, Diditch. Don't insist. Aunt Blackwall, 40 revisions. Don't insist. 41st Sidorchuk. Sidorchuk doesn't insist on 41st. Congrats, 43rd. Don't insist. Diditch, 46th. Don't insist. National MP of Suslov, 48th. Don't insist. 49th, Blackwolf Tetian. Don't insist. 50th Janicka People's Deputy. Don't insist. 53rd Janicki. Don't insist. 54th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 55th, Suslova. Don't insist. 58th, Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 60 amendment, People's Deputy of Suslov. Don't insist. 61st National Deputy Tchacouk. Don't insist. 62nd National Deputy Blackwall. Don't insist. 63rd, Soslova People's Deputy. Don't insist. 64th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 65th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 66th, Didic. Don't insist. 67th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 68th Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 69th, Suslova. Don't insist. 70th, Tchacouk. Don't insist. The consonants, 72nd. Don't insist. Janicki, MP, 73. Don't insist. Consonants, 74th. Don't insist. Consonance, 75th. Don't insist. Janicki, 76th. Don't insist. Didic, 78th. Don't insist. Didic, 79th. Don't insist. Blackwall, '80s. Don't insist. 81st, Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 82nd, Soslova. Don't insist. The 84th, the Sousoleum. Don't insist. 86th, Soslova. Don't insist. 89 Amendment, People’s Deputy Didic. Don't insist. 90 amendment, national deputy Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 91st National Deputy Tchacouk. Don't insist. 92nd National Deputy Krivenko. Don't insist. 95th National MP Krivenko. Don't insist. 97th People's Deputy Tachaku. Don't insist. 98th People's Deputy Krivenka. Don't insist. 100th National Deputy Didic. Don't insist. 102nd People's Deputy Krivenka. Don't insist. 103rd Sidorchuk, the People's Deputy. Don't insist. 104th Janicki People's Deputy. Don't insist. 105th Janicko. Don't insist. 106th, Diditch. Don't insist. 107th, Diditch. Don't insist. 108th, Blackwall. Don't insist. Blackwall, 110th. Don't insist. 111th, Krivenka, People's Deputy. Don't insist. 112th Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 116th National Deputy Suslov. Don't insist. 117th National Deputy Suslov. Don't insist. 118th National Deputy Suslov. Don't insist. Let's move on. 121st National Deputy Blackwall. Don't insist. 122nd National Deputy Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 123rd National Deputy Suslov. Don't insist. 124th National MP Janicki. Don't insist. Tchacouk, 125 repairs. Don't insist. Solstice, 126th. Don't insist. 129th, Tchacouk. Don't insist. 130th, Krivenka. Don't insist. 133rd, Soslova. Don't insist. 134th, Lensky, National Deputy. Don't insist. 135th, Soslova. Don't insist. Blackwall, 137 revisions. Don't insist. 138th, Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 142nd, Krivenko. Don't insist. 143rd, Krivenko. Don't insist. 144th, Souslaw. Don't insist. Let's move on, dear fellows. 145th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 146th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 147th, Krivenko. Don't insist. And 151th, Didic. Don't insist. 152nd, Didic. Don't insist. 153rd, Blackwall. Don't insist. 154th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 155th Sidorchuk. Don't insist. Congrats, 156 repairs. Don't insist. 157th, Soslova. Don't insist. 158 repairs, Tachaku. Don't insist. 160th, Krivenko. Don't insist. The 161st, the Sousoleum. Don't insist. 163, Soslova. Don't insist. 164th, Soslova. Don't insist. 165th, Tchacouk. Don't insist. 166th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 167th, Soslova. Don't insist. 168th, People's Deputies Krivenko and Sobolev. Don't insist. Let's move on. 170th, Didic. Don't insist. 171, Blackwall. Don't insist. 172nd Sidorchuk, Wozniak. Don't insist. 176th National MP Didic. Don't insist. 177th National MP Didic. Don't insist. 178th National MP Blackwall. Don't insist. 180th National MP to Suslov. Don't insist. 181st National Deputy Tchacouk. Don't insist. 182nd Janicki. Don't insist. 183rd, Krivenko and Sobolev. Don't insist. 185th, Soslova. Don't insist. 186th, Lensky. Don't insist. 187th, Tachaku. Don't insist. That's 188, Janicki. Don't insist. 189th, Soslova. Don't insist. 191th, Didic. Don't insist. 192nd, Didic. Don't insist. Tchacouk, 193. Don't insist. 194th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 195th Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 197th, Tchacouk. Don't insist. 198, Janicki. Don't insist. 200th, Tchacouk. Don't insist. 201st, Krivenko. Don't insist. 202, Tachaku. Don't insist. 204, Diditch. Don't insist. 205, Blackwall. Don't insist. 206th. Don't insist. Didic, 209 amendment. Don't insist. Didic, 210th. Don't insist. 211th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 212th Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 214th, Souslaw. Don't insist. 216th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 217th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 221, Diditch. Don't insist. 222nd, Diditch. Don't insist. 224 amendments, national deputies Sidorczuk and Wozniak Don't insist. 225th, Soslova. Don't insist. 226th, Soslova. Don't insist. 227, Sousoleum, repair. Don't insist. 229th, Souslaw. Don't insist. 231st, Soslova. Don't insist. 234th, Diditch. Don't insist. 235th, Diditch. Don't insist. 236th, Blackwolf Tetjana. Don't insist. 239, Sidorchuk, Wozniak. Don't insist. 242th, Diditch. Don't insist. 243, Blackwall. Don't insist. 244, Krivenko. Don't insist. Didic, 246th. Don't insist. Blackwall, 247th. Don't insist. 248, Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 252th, Diditch. Don't insist. 254, Sidorchuk and Wozniak. Don't insist. 255, Krivenko, Sobolev. Don't insist. 256th, Krivenko, Sobolev. Don't insist. Didic, 257th. Don't insist. 258, Didic. Don't insist. 259, Blackwall. Don't insist. 260th, Diditch. Don't insist. 261, Blackwall. Don't insist. 262, Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 268th doesn't insist on the National MP Didic. 270th Sidorchuk, Wozniak. Don't insist. 271, Krivenko, Sobolev. Don't insist. 272, Didic. Don't insist. 273, Auntie Blackwall. Don't insist. 274, Sidorchuk, Wozniak. Don't insist. 276th, Tachaku. Don't insist. 280th, Diditch. Don't insist. 281, Sidorchuk, Wozniak. Don't insist. 286th, Soslova. Don't insist. 288, Tachaku. Don't insist. 289, Blackwall. Don't insist. 290th, Krivenko, Sobolev. Don't insist. 291th, sorry, 290th, Krivenko, Sobolev. Don't insist. 291th. Huh? Sorry, Your Honor, National MP Krivenko 290 insists. Please turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy Krivenk. Presently, fellow citizens, the national MP Krivenko is preparing to be urged. Don't insist. Let's move on, dear fellows. Maybe Yegor Sobolev insists? No, the author does not insist. 291, National Deputy Didic. Don't insist. 292, National Deputy Blackwall. Don't insist. 299th National MP Didic. Don't insist. 300th, Blackwolf Tetian. Don't insist. 301, Sidorchuk, Wozniak. Don't insist. Let's move on, dear fellows. 303, Soslova, National Deputy. Don't insist. 307, Souslaw. Don't insist. 308th, Tchacouk. Don't insist. 309, People's Deputy Krivenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Krivenk. Dear colleagues, 309 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u101	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, after all the amendments we've made, you remember this memorable vote. In general, I would like to make a statement on this bill and thank its authors, who also co-sponsored the 3035 law on custody, which will be next under consideration, and to say that in general, Bill 1351, unfortunately, does not solve the issue in fact, creates another such layout in the form of municipal enterprises, creates a stock exchange that will become a smudge on the necks of our miners. My colleagues from Janicki, Eutuszka, and I were with others directly where they were mined, worked with the caregivers. And, dear fellows, I ask you all to gather and call for us to vote on Bill 3035. And with the comments given by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which are in factions, I agree with them, and I think this bill will unfortunately not solve this problem, but I ask you to mobilise everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u102	Thank you. The position of the committee here is similar, so we don't put it on. I'm sorry, we don't have that right to reply, but then we'll give you, if that's right, we'll let you speak. Dear colleagues, we are not voting on 309 amendments, because the author does not insist, but he has only expressed his position. Let's move on. 311th, Krivenko, Sobolev. Don't insist. 312, Souslaw. Don't insist. 315th, Soslova. Don't insist. 317th, Soslova. Don't insist. 319, Souslaw. Don't insist. 320th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 322, Didic. Don't insist. 323rd, Auntie Blackwall. Don't insist. 324th Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 327th, Diditch. Don't insist. 331, Diditch. Don't insist. 332nd Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 333rd, Soslova. Don't insist. 334th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 336th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 337 Janicki. Don't insist. 339th, Diditch. Don't insist. 340th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 341st Sidorchuk. Don't insist. 343, Diditch. Don't insist. 346th, Diditch. Don't insist. 348=a, Soslova. Don't insist. 349, Didic. Don't insist. 350th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 351, Didic. Don't insist. 353, Diditch. Don't insist. The 354th, Soslova. Don't insist. 355, Blackwall. Don't insist. 356th, Krivenko. Don't insist. The 357th, Soslova. Don't insist. 358, Tchacouk. Don't insist. 359, Blackwall. Don't insist. 361th, Diditch. Don't insist. 363, Soslova. Don't insist. 364th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 365th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 367th, Diditch. Don't insist. 368, Sousoleum. Don't insist. 369, Blackwall. Don't insist. 374th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 375th, Gavriluk. Don't insist. 380s, Blackwall. Don't insist. 381st, Soslova. Don't insist. 382th, Soslova. Don't insist. 383, Blackwall. Don't insist. Now, colleagues. Let's move on to the repairs. 395th, Blackwall. Don't insist. 396th, Krivenko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, this ended with a table of amendments. Mr. Dzublik, we thank you for having carefully considered this bill on your committee. Please be seated in the workplace. Dear colleagues, in a few minutes, we are moving on to making a decision. I take this opportunity to take two minutes to inform you about the work of that commission that was created at the hands of Parliament Speaker Andria Paruba in May precisely for the purpose of settling those bills that are under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and concerning the issue of the resolution of amber, the amber problem. I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that during the time of our commission's work, four of its meetings took place, and we have actually considered all the bills that are now under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is very important to note that the problem of illegal amber mining directly affects the economic and environmental security of the state. And Ukrainian companies that have government licenses for amber are now extracting about 4 tons of this material every year, but obviously it's actually just a small official percentage. In fact, according to expert estimates, illegal amber production is found — come on! - between 150 and 300 tons per year. So all of this is in the shadow realm and the shadow income of those people who do it and who are hiding this business is about $200 million to $300 million a year -- every year! – this is a loss of the Ukrainian budget. So it is obvious that the great task of Parliament and Government is to resolve this situation. In the first place, the problem of amber production concerns Volinsk, Žitomirsk, and Ravensk regions with the largest deposits of amber. Actually, we've also considered on the committee a bill that we're currently considering 1351-1 and we've invited both experts and those who are involved in the mining and the custodians, and the main management of the regions that I've listed. And the board's conclusions, they don't match the position that the committee just sounded. The committee advocates that this bill be adopted by 1351 as a whole. And the commission thinks it needs to be sent to work. And the commission also thinks that not only does this law have to be amended, but that whole block of bills that relate to amber and registered in the Supreme Council, they have very serious observations and those that relate to lobbying and ecology. And so the Commission's appeal to the government is that such serious bills and decisions should be made by the government itself. Because it is the responsibility of the executive to work in key directions here: the first is to increase the responsibility for illegal amber production; the second is to solve the environmental problem; and the third is to legitimize this business. In fact, with such decisions, our commission, which finished its work in July, asked the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to put these bills to the vote. Bill 1351 send for further work, according to other bills, I'll also tell the commission's position. And to turn to the government, immediately, in a very short time, for several weeks, to submit balanced European bills to Parliament that would take into account the experience of Poland and the countries of the Baltic States. That is exactly the position of the commission. I thank you for being able to introduce her at last. And now we're going to the vote. I ask all colleagues to return to the session room. As long as they return, yes, this is a violation of the Rules, but 30 seconds to the national deputy Eutuska, please, and then Rosenblatt, who worked very actively on this committee. I very much ask the National Deputies to return to the session room. Please, the national deputy of Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u103	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm going to say that Fatherland has repeatedly fixed its position according to the guardians. We talked about that in the income part of the state you could get, as a minimum, 5 billion dollars, which is not enough to provide and implement social programs. And I want to say, Mrs. Irina, as a head, thank you very much. But then, when we worked on the commission, in the working group, we had the opportunity to apply, because we couldn't do it on a procedural basis, it couldn't be done. So I would still like to take a few rights into account, namely, in article 8 of the right to use amber drums, to supplement the fourth paragraph of the right to use amber drums by local, district government administrations. And also to article 15 "special permission to use amber drums to supplement paragraph 3 (a) by the district council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleague, 30 seconds, because that's what we're going out of order right now. Please, Rosenblatt, the National MP, we've heard, and if this bill is being drafted, you'll be able to make suggestions to the committee. Thank you, Mr. Rosenbalt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u105	Good day, fellow colleagues, I want to address you because the question that we're considering today lasts for more than two years. The second draft was prepared in December 2015. Since then, we have not had time to consider this bill. But today, when we have an uncoordinated position with several factions that today express some concerns. I'm asking you, after all, to support this bill, to send it to the committee for second reading, so that those who have not been able to do it again will submit a new application to it. And in March months, in this, you know, regime and we voted and we accepted it. Because it's a question of implementation. The legalization of the amber law and that very phenomenon, the disgraceful thing that is in our country today, we must stop. Hundreds of thousands of people are looking at us, millions who today demand that money from the legalization of amber go to the government budget and go into the pockets of people working in this amber. I call for that, and I want to ask you once again to vote and not to fail this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u106	Thank you. For another 30 seconds, please, Andrew Lozovy, he also worked on the committee and we move on to the vote later, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u107	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Why are they stupid? Because they're poor, they're poor, because they're stupid. We're walking around the world with our hand out, give us that. There will be children, grandchildren, while we have such a natural resource that we can put billions of dollars into the budget each year when we make the right use. These are new schools, these are new roads, these are higher salaries for the budget and for all people, and we need to raise wages, raise pensions. And amber is an opportunity for that. Yes, the law is imperfect, but there is nothing that prevents us from working on it later. I urge you to vote. And those who are against this law, you have to understand clearly that you are responsible if he, God forbid, is not voted for the entire mess that happens to me in the Plains, in the Walls, in the Lifetimes, when day after day of the shooting, when people are killed, when people are formally unemployed from small to old are forced to participate in illegal mining, when they are simply destroying Ukraine. Vote for the future of this state, for the sake of our children. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u108	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to ask the Parliamentary Secretariat, we wanted to give everyone, not just a minute, but 30 seconds, so that the Eutushka People's Deputy would not make a claim. It's 30 seconds from your Kugel faction. Then there's the Kiral and the dot on it. Colleagues, this is still a violation of the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u109	In absolute support of the need to adopt this bill, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, in the second reading, the people we are responsible for are a large number of guardians in all the regions that are making money today and asking to enter the legislative field, they become slaves there. So let's ask for a second. to read again so that we can make adjustments, changes and vote it together in the hall for a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u110	Thank you. The last one is Mr. Kiral, please, 30 seconds. My fellow Members, and I would like to point out that the commission is, of course, to settle this issue as quickly as possible, because we really can't assume that the Council can't make a decision for more than a year on issues related to Ukraine's environmental security and economics as well. Please, Mr. Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u111	Thank you. Colleagues, we believe that before the order is stated, and we know that there have already been orders from the President, the Minister of Internal Affairs, such a type of bill may be at great risk of creating another watchbook, right? - corruption. Look at the statistics of the Attorney General’s Office: 3 percent of cases today, corruption cases, courts, 63 percent on trial. When we're creating even more possibilities for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. We move on to the decision-making process, the discussion is closed. If you'd like to invite the people's deputies into the hall, please take your seats. So, colleagues, two suggestions were made during the discussion. One responds to the committee's presentation -- to accept the second reading and, in general, to send the next one to read again. Both of these proposals will be put to the vote, and the hall will determine which of them will be supported and which of them will be supported by the hall. So please take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making. So, colleagues, I'm the first to vote on the committee's proposal: draft Law on the Extraction and Implementation of amber (No.1351-1) on second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Vote, fellows! Please vote. [[13:07:59]] For 158. The decision is not taken. I bet on the vote the next sentence, which I hope will bring together the hall: a second reading. And this proposal is that the MPs who wanted to introduce the rights could introduce the rights, and in fact the format of the second reading would give such an opportunity, and that the government would be able to join in the drafting of the law. So I hope that this proposal will unite the hall. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal for the extraction and implementation of amber (1351-1) to re-send the second reading. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote second reading, 1351-1, we vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:09:06]] For 221 I'll be right back. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I see that this proposal unites most of the deputies. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, we can vote. Please mobilize as much as possible, please enter the hall. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the proposal: send Bill 1351 back for second reading. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, vote. [[13:10:29]] For 215 215, no decision taken. I'll put it back on if there's no votes, I'll reject the bill. Voting is now under way, the discussion is closed. So, colleagues, I'm once again proposing a return to the insistence of MPs. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 1351-1. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Colleagues, when voting goes on, there's no motive, no discussion. [[13:11:26]] For the 220. 220-yes. The decision is not made. The draft Law on the Extraction and Implementation of amber 1351-1 was rejected. I'm asking the government to work with the people's deputies on this bill to present to the Supreme Council a draft law that could be supported. Let's move on to the next draft of the law. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Inventory Fund (No. 4551). And I invite you to report to the Committee on Environmental Policy on Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, I want to say that we are actually starting a session of Parliament by adopting important environmental laws. And it's very good that we saved the environmental impact assessment bill and sent it to the committee. Instead, I would like to bring to your attention the bill 4551, prepared for your second reading, on the natural-indicative fund of Ukraine, the Law on Amendments to the Law, which deals with the issue of the transfer of individual powers in the field of the natural-indictment fund from the territorial authorities of the central executive authority in the field of environmental protection to the relevant bodies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kyiv and Sevastopol public administrations. Explain why. Because the territorial executives in the field of environmental protection simply don't exist. In 2012, during the reform of the administration of the State, we eliminated the district administrations of ecology and, instead, all powers, especially those relating to the matters of the natural-command fund, they fell out and were not properly transferred to the departments of the relevant professional public administrations and thus the issue of the creation of new objects of the natural-commanding fund, their expansion or the issue of their current activity of consent, reconciliation and so forth, they have no solution, and thus, in fact, environmentalists and activists, and representatives of the executive authorities, they ask us, the Supreme Council, to regulate the matter legislatively, because it is now not regulated and we have an actual legal vacuum. We worked on the committee, we had a time to prepare for the second reading of 24 proposals from law enforcement entities, 5 of which we had to reject and 19 counted and accordingly made the law more quality and better. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has made some observations, but the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes that the Supreme Council adopt legislation on the outcome of the second reading and generally as a law. I ask the deputies to vote and support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Guys, there's not much line. I ask the authors to prepare themselves for discussion. So 1 order, National Deputy Ivchenko. Don't insist. 3rd, Yvchenka. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone to Ichchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u115	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we really need to address the issue of environmental protection. And believe me, we've always talked about decentralization, and we're confident that it's the right way to develop the country. But the question is that it's impossible to transfer decentralizedly to the district government or to one person who will manage a natural-order fund that will be managed by forests. And to my great conviction, when we were talking to the Ministry of Ecology, they were talking about that others were not yet created. But it's not a reform, it's not a solution: when there's no other, we can't offer anything, let's give it to one person in an area that will be managed. Look at the Internet: there's cottage towns, there's logging, there's uncontrolled logging, there's sanitation, there's logging, there's logging, and so on. I propose to reject and commission Minecology to propose reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u116	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u117	Thank you. And to propose a real reform of the forest sector so that we can really be satisfied with what is happening today in the Ukrainian forests with those possessing the forest. That's why I offered to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u118	Are you insisting on voting for the amendment, Mr. Vadim? Vadim Yvchenko, do you insist on voting? You don't insist, do you? 4th Amendment, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 23 Amendment, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 24 revisions, Nedda. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, this is how we completed the discussion of the draft law. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. Now we're moving on to making a decision. And while we invite the deputies into the Chamber, I give the floor to the Minister. Please, Ostap Semerak, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u119	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! I would like to emphasize and remind you that this bill is indeed drafted by the government, and its necessity is very important. Because at the time when the Ukrainian Parliament decided to eliminate the territorial administrations of the Ministry of Nature and to transfer them to the district administrations of the State administrations of the function of creating and expanding the territories and objects of the natural-indictment fund, the transfer of them under the protection of the provision of regulations and other measures was not taken into account by the Ukrainian Parliament. Today we have the opportunity to pass these functions on to the district government. This will end the process of decentralization that is taking place in Ukraine. And I would also like to point out that this bill, this is about a natural-inventory fund, and Ivchenko's national deputy to say that it's not about a forest fund, it's about another legislation. So I would ask you to support this bill as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u120	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's Natural and Inventory Fund (on environmental protection) (No.4551) in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, please vote, please support 4551 in second reading and in general, colleagues. Vote! [[13:20:02]] For-195 The decision is not taken. I'll bet the next one on the second reading. Colleagues, please take up jobs, and I hope that this proposal will unite. Will the second be supported again? Another one? There's a vote, there's no discussion right now. There is no discussion now. So, colleagues, I'm putting the next motion to vote: draft Law 4551 for re-reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. 4551 for re-reading. Please be supportive. [[13:20:56]] For 218. Six votes is not enough. I'll put it back again. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please, I see we're not there yet, please invite the deputies to the hall. Please take up your jobs. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to consideration 4551 in order to put on the second. Therefore, whoever supports the proposal to return to the vote for resecond reading, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:21:53]] For 221
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to address the faction of the majority. We're looking at extremely important bills right now, and I'm asking all my colleagues to come back to the session room, and we have no right to overthrow this bill. I very much ask the Ukrainian people's deputies to return to the session room and now support the return to the draft bill that we are voting on. Dear colleagues, our Parliament is one of few positive qualities. We've moved on to a system-wide environmental bill. Let's keep this stamp and let's support this bill. You can't mess it up. Don't leave the hall, please, colleagues from the People's Front and the BP, come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u122	Please, colleagues, we're not talking, we're voting. You all have the opportunity to pick up the phone and call those who aren't around and it'll be the best way to communicate, the best way to look to the right and the left. Colleagues, I'm inviting all the deputies into the hall. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues Ready to Vote? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the vote and consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural Command Fund 4551. If you'll excuse me, please vote 4551 returns, please vote. [[13:24:11]] For 224 Two votes, colleagues. I don't understand what's going on in the heads of those deputies who know that there's a vote and there's no vote in the room, I don't understand it, colleagues, it's then, on the air, you're accusing me of putting five votes. It's supposed to be embarrassing -- it's a humiliation for all of Parliament and for all of Ukraine. I'm putting a motion for a vote to return to 4551. Please support the return to 4551. Please vote, please support. [[13:25:10]] For 240 And I'm proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund (4551) for a second reading again. Please vote, please support re-second reading 4551. Please vote, please support. [[13:25:42]] For 241 Decision taken. We move on to the next law, which is in the order of the day, this is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and Natural Environments in Europe) (No. 2023). And I invite you to report to the head of the committee of Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, your second reading is the draft amending bill for some Ukrainian legislation (for the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and Natural Environments in Europe) (registration number 2023). The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the protection of rare species of animals and plants that have been introduced into the Vienna Convention. The bill amends and conforms to the requirements of the Vienna Convention, the Forest Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Laws of Ukraine "For Animal Life", the "For the Nature-Prohibition Fund of Ukraine, the "For the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct", and the "For Hunting and Hunting". In preparation for the second reading, the bill received 13 comments and proposals from law - abiding entities, three of them rejected, and ten incorporated and introduced editorial laws that did not change the substance of the bill. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation (for the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna, the Natural Environments of Europe) (registration No. 2023) on the basis of a second reading and as a whole, to be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Let's go to rights in this bill, not much law, I ask the authors to prepare. So first, Neda. Don't insist. 8th, Nedda. 7th, Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u125	Alexei Rybczyn "The Fatherland", Donetskina. Amendment 7 Rybchina, Schkrum allows hayhairing by mechanized means in the territory of natural reserves. We have an open letter signed by 78 environmentalists, co-workers of reserves who say that the areas of natural reserves are quite large, for example, in Ascania New in the Hersonian region, and hayhairing in the grasslands is often a means of avoiding fires and without the use of mechanized means requires considerable human resources. Thus, at the request of environmentalists, they are asked to support this arrangement and allow it to be bruised by mechanized means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u126	Will you comment, Mr. Paul? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u127	Edited, edited, can be set, tried.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u128	So they insist on voting, right? I'm betting on the vote number seven, People's Deputy Rybchin. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:29:27]] For a hundred and 150-yes. The decision is not made. Eight, Neda. Don't insist. 13th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. There are no more suggestions and amendments, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. The Supreme Council's apparatus, please inform the deputies that we are moving on to the decision-making process. As long as the MPs meet, one minute, Minister. Oh, no? Yes. Okay. Then, please prepare to make a decision. Are you guys ready? Here we go to the vote, and I put to the vote the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the implementation of the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and Natural Environments in Europe), No. 2023. At the suggestion of the committee in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. (2023) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, vote, colleagues. [[13:31:12]] For 218. Next suggestion: for a second read. Please enter the hall, please enter the premises. Now I'm going to make the next proposal, which is the order. So, colleagues, there is an offer of a hall to return to consideration as a whole. I'm asking you to acquit not me, but my colleagues in factions to come into the hall. So I'm going to put the vote back on the vote in general if we don't get to the second position of second reading. So, please prepare to take up jobs. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for the implementation of the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and Natural Environments in Europe) (2023). Ready to vote? Ready to vote, yes. This strong support will be the minister. So I'm putting the vote back to 2023. Please vote, please support. [[13:33:23]] For 235 We're back. I now put to the vote the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (2023) in second reading and in general, colleagues. In the second reading and in general 2023, please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:34:10]] For 248 The law is passed. Colleagues, we have just received a statement from two factions on intermission from the Peter Prashenko faction and the People's Front faction. They're willing to take a break from a colleague's rostrum. And I invite you to the show, three minutes, Anna Gopko. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Today, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as the Committee on European Integration, as well as the entire Ukrainian Parliament, we would also like to express our indignation at the statement made by Ambassador Ernst Reichel of Germany in Ukraine, who said that elections in Donbas could also be held in the presence of Russian troops. We believe that this statement by the Ambassador of Germany in Ukraine runs counter to Germany's official policy, runs counter to the Minsk Accords and, in particular, because Germany is an active participant in the "Norman format" and all efforts towards a peaceful settlement, particularly the Chancellor Merkel, whom we personally thank for her active participation. We believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine should immediately call on the Ambassador of Germany to hear him refute this statement, and Minister Klimkin must report to the Ukrainian Parliament on the results of such a conversation with the Ambassador. Because this is not the official position of Germany. [[Applause]] We would also like to thank, apart from Chancellor Merkel, Germany for their support of Ukraine, particularly the sanctions policy. And also thank MPs like Rebecca Harms, like Maria Louise Beck, who were at Donbass and saw another. and saw another painting, a reality of war, unlike the ambassador we invite to go east to Audiavka and see the realities that are happening there. [[Applause]] And then we'd like to hear what he's going to do about holding elections for Russian troops. And invite German parliamentarians. We know that there is an official ban on the European Parliament: not going east to Ukraine. On behalf of Parliament, we invite all the parliamentarians of the world and we will organize logistics for them to go to Donbas and see what is happening there and bring the truth to the world. So by the 25th anniversary of the opening of the German Embassy in Ukraine, which is being celebrated today, and the ambassador has invited a great many deputies, distinguished guests, we believe that we should boycott this action and not go to the German ambassador today. [[Applause]] And that's how we express our Ukrainian position. And what we would also like to say is that the position of Parliament is very clear: there will be no elections on Donbas until the Russian troops get out of Ukrainian territory until the Ukrainian troops regain control of the Ukrainian-Russian border. [[Applause]] And this is a very clear position, which is a completely subject that unites all. And any capitulation scenarios that impose such oligarchs as Pinchuk on Ukraine that print their articles in the Wall Street Journal and have breakfasts in Davos, and are now preparing for the Munich Security Conference, they won't be able to pass. Because we are not going: (a) Crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u130	Give me a minute, give me a chance to finish. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u131	Because we, according to what was the UN resolution in December 2016 that Russia -- the occupying state and the Crimea -- was a temporarily occupied territory. The people of Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities alone, are: (a) we will return Crimea and no oligarchs have the right to dictate that we should temporarily forget it. And the second question. Our course towards NATO and the same course towards European integration is an opportunity to reform the country. And no one is going to give it up. And any attempt to impose a capitulation scenario will not pass. And this is a place for all of the Ukrainian oligarchs not to use international sites to promote and impose a plan that is against the interests of Ukraine, along with ambassadors who are sounding their personal stand as an example of the ambassador of Germany. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Colleagues, we're moving on to the next question. And that's actually going to be the last question in the environmental policy box. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the area of the protection of Ukraine's natural-law foundation (2311). Colleagues, please be active. I invite the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head, honourable people's deputies, I would like to thank Parliament for the fact that we are more or less successful today in voting for important laws of environmental policy. And I'd like to present you with another bill, number 2311, which deals with changes and additions to some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of conservation of the natural reserve. The purpose of the bill is to ensure the conservation of Ukraine’s natural-indictment fund and to improve the activities of the conservation sector by amending and supplementing some Ukrainian legislation. The bill had 37 comments and suggestions from law - enforcement entities, 15 of which had been rejected and 22 were taken into account and amended, which did not alter the substance of the bill. The main scientific and expert office, the Chief Legal Authority, is instilled with comments that are added accordingly. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to improve legislation in the field of protection of the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund) (under number 2311) to be adopted on second reading and as a law as a whole. We also request the commission of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council to introduce technical and legal rights. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. 4th, Lensky. Is it insisting? 5th, Ilyuk. Don't insist. 16th, Urbansky. Don't insist. 18th, Ilyuk. Don't insist. 19th, Ilyuk. Don't insist. 22nd, Lunchenko. Don't insist. 23rd, Kulinich. Don't insist. He insists. Please, Kulinich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, with my permission, I propose to exclude the bill from the amendment to article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Amendments to article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land are proposed to prohibit changes in the target destination of land within the natural-indictment fund. These changes will create huge problems, and within these areas of the natural-invention fund there are populated areas, and sometimes whole areas, there are people living there and doing business, and I'm not saying that there are no natural-invention funds within the territory. As a result, it will end. Where the limit ends, it is not clear how we can ban the change in the target destination of land without any indication of the territory to which it is being extended. That's why I insist on editing my paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u136	Ostap Volodymyrovich, do you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, this refers to a possible land sink when there is a decision, there's a presidential decree or a decision by the local authorities to create new natural-intelligence funds, but as long as documentation is sorted and generated, there may be some changes, particularly the target. I would ask you not to support this amendment and leave the draft law as drafted by the committee for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u138	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 23 people's deputies, Kulinić. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:44:03]] For-127 The decision is not made. Next up, Lunchenko, 27. Don't insist. 28th, Dove. Don't insist. 29th, Kulinich. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u139	With my 29th edition, I propose not to amend article 83 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The bill proposes to prohibit the transfer of municipal property to private property in the territory of objects and areas of the natural and natural-indictment fund. I think it's wrong. First, the Law on the Natural Command Fund, as well as the Earth Code, establishes that these lands may be in any form of ownership, including private property. But each owner must adhere to the conservation regime. Secondly, in the natural-invention fund, we often have numerous locations. If we accept this standard, it will make it impossible, for example, to privatize the property under the house. I think it's unacceptable and wrong. That's why I insist on my right hand, and that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u141	Again, I propose not to support this amendment, because once again, before the decision is made to create new objects of the natural-command fund and to accept the entire documentation may take years. And in the meantime, from the same national park from its different zones, there can be nothing left when the areas are privatized and so on. So I propose not to support this amendment. And from the moment of the decision to set up a natural-invention fund until the agreement of all the documentation in our country remains in the form of ownership in which they were at the time of the creation of the object data.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u142	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 29th, right? 29th. So I'm putting to the vote amendment number 29 of the people's deputy Kulinic. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[13:46:22]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Next, 30s, luncheon. Don't insist. 31st, Dove. Don't insist. 32nd. Kulinich. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u143	By Edit 32, I propose not to amend article 93 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The bill proposes to prohibit the transfer of any form of property to the territory of the objects and territories of the natural and natural resources in the lease. I don't think this norm can be voted on. At times, there are settlements, even whole areas, people living there, and economic activities. Under such conditions, a total ban on land use will create enormous problems for people living in these areas. As a result, people will not be able to form the earth under the buildings and other land areas they use. So I suggest you don't set up such a ban and count my license as number 32.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u144	Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u145	I understand the concern of the deputy of the people, but, unfortunately, these. In such circumstances, there are many abuses that apply exactly to the sites and lands of national natural parks, reserves, and so forth. So again, I would ask you not to support this amendment, but not to let the land of the natural-intelligence fund be leased, because this, unfortunately, will benefit not ordinary people, but people who have additional privileges and responsibilities. This is actually going to be the ladder of the earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u146	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 32 people's deputies, Kulinic. Please vote on who supports this amendment. Please vote. [[13:48:29]] For-100 100 for. The decision is not made. Thirty-three, Lunchenko. Don't insist. 34th, Kulinich. Don't insist. And 35th, Kulinich. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, and so we have completed our discussion of the draft law and we can move on to the decision-making process. I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the secretariat to invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u147	Please return to the voting room. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the area of the protection of the Ukrainian natural-command fund (number 2311). At the suggestion of the committee in second reading and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues, 2311 in second reading and in general. Vote. [[13:50:14]] For-173 173. Colleagues, tell me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u148	It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-07-m0.u149	Could there be another? I very much ask you then, once again the second I ask you to support me. Colleagues, I will now make the next proposal under the Rules for ugly second reading. It unites, it seems, all the deputies. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now I'm going to put the next vote. Colleagues, so I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the area of the protection of the Ukrainian natural-command fund (No. 2311) should be sent to read again, colleagues. Please vote and please support. So 2311 is rereading the second reading. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote, please support. [[13:51:26]] For-200 There are no votes. Thus, colleagues, draft Law 2311 is declared rejected, rejected. Colleagues, me. Mr. Sergei, I can put it another five or seven times, but when there's a few votes missing, then I put it in, and when there's 26 missing, it just doesn't make sense. Colleagues, I was approached by a committee. Attention, colleagues! With the proposal and request that we adopt a draft decree today at our first meeting, referring the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states and international organizations, condemning the escalation of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. At the time of this aggression, we made a joint statement by the leadership of Parliament, heads and deputies of committees, now there's a proposal that we make a statement from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's hand-in-hand, everyone has been able to get to know it, it's the draft Decree 6039. It's not complicated, but it's a harsh statement that gives an assessment by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Russian aggression in Java and across the front lines. And I, my dear colleagues, will now ask you to put it into the agenda for the decision-making process and immediately consider it, colleagues. I ask my colleagues to maximize their mobility, to enter the hall, and I will now put this proposal to the vote. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. The author is: Svetlana Petrovna's patronage, but the proposals are from both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Integration. So, colleagues, if there are voices now, we're going to look at them now. And I'm going to put a motion on the vote, put it into the agenda for the decision-making session. Please, everyone, come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states and international organizations condemning the escalation of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine (No.6039). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:54:40]] For 203 The decision is not made. Please include the voting board. Block of Peter Poshenko – 86, People's Front – 50, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 22, Radical Party Lachka – 10, Father's Front – 14, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 3. Where did the people go, explain it to me? And where can people be at work when Parliament is at work? Can you tell me where they might be? No, it's a matter for all MPs in Parliament, for everyone, for every MP in Parliament. Because each and every one of you has mechanisms and influence to raise this issue on committees and factions, because everyone in this room is responsible for Parliament's work. Colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda for decision-making draft Decree 6039. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:56:14]] For 209 209 – yes. The decision is not made. Colleagues, we've finished our consideration of the whole block of ecology, the next block of issues that we have in our daily lives -- it's a matter of information. It's also a second reading, so we can go to its consideration, the only thing about information is two bills that have a huge number of rights, we're obviously not going to be able to start consideration, because there's one hundred, two hundred rights. But we'll start our work right after break at 4:00. I ask the head of the Committee of Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich to stand by, at four o'clock we move on to two of your questions: the issue of information. And now, according to the Rules, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4 p.m., I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room to continue the session. Thank you.
