ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Can we have the registration? So, colleagues, please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:39]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on January 17, this year the Supreme Council of Ukraine proclaimed March 14, the Day of the Ukrainian Volunteer. And today we are celebrating this holiday for the first time. In the spring of the 14th year, volunteer battalions saved Ukraine's independence. The international war criminal Putin, preparing armed aggression against Ukraine, seems to have counted everything except the unbreakable spirit of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian volunteers, and the Ukrainian volunteers. Volunteer battalions have destroyed the aggressor’s plans. Volunteers have become the ideological basis for the restoration of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you, dear brothers, for your courage, for your sacrifice, for your willingness to stand in defense of Ukraine in the most difficult times. Today, many volunteers from various battalions are here with us, in the hall, many of them in military uniforms. Let's welcome them together, our volunteers. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Also today is the birthday of the National Deputies: Vladislava Viktorovich Buharev, Sergia Alexandrovich Faiermark and Yuri Anatoliyovich Shapolova. We welcome our colleagues on their birthdays. [[Applause]] Colleagues, the first question we have is the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian national deputy. On March 03, 2017, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to Ukraine's national election on October 26, 2014 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Buglak Yuri Alexanderovich, who was included in the election list of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Buglak Yuri Alexanderovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please. Turn on the microphone, please, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u2	I, Buglak Yuri Alexanderovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u3	Yuri Alexanderovich, we have a question today about the distribution of deputies on committees, so I ask you to come up with a committee that you would like to work on so that the regulatory committee can prepare a decision so that we can finally resolve the issues of those deputies that are not distributed by the committees. And it's important that all the deputies who have not yet been allocated to the committees, today, we are able to make a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, messages. And I'm asking the factions and groups to record the performance. Please record all fractions, groups. Please sign up. From "The Rebirth Party" by Biloval Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! We, as representatives of the Rebirth Group, have worked in the districts for the last two weeks and have worked on the Committees of the Supreme Council, so a lot of responsible bills have been drafted, one of them is 6141, which we propose to consider to the Supreme Council, where it is proposed to set a minimum wage on the tariff rate, depending on the minimum wage. Today, all civil servants need this in order to establish social justice, and people were to receive a decent salary. The second major issue we were asked by the voters is our government's cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Today, the media are rekindling such things that the International Monetary Fund requires an increase in the retirement age, and the issue is the sale of agricultural arrangements. That's why we, the MP's Rebirth Party, today require the Minister of Finance, the head of the National Bank to come and report to Parliament, which is currently the priority set by the Cabinet of Ministers, and what cooperation will be provided with the International Monetary Fund. At all the meetings we had with our voters, they asked us questions about medical reform and the establishment of hospital districts. This is a very important issue today, because the increase in disease, 68 percent of our citizens today are suffering from cardiovascular disease, and oncology is second. And to date, the fact that the Ministry of Health imposes on the top of the establishment of the hospital districts, not taking into account the opinions of district councils, local councils, district councils, and rural areas, will lead to a serious collapse. Therefore, we urge the Ministry of Health, and I urge all my colleagues once again to take a responsible approach to this issue and to take into account the key points that our voters today demand. Because road infrastructure, inadequate medical care, medical equipment, communications. Inter-bus connections do not allow you to create such hospital districts and provide effective medical care. Today, I would like to take a second look at the questions that our voters asked us, the question of those holidays. We were just so close that we worked in the districts on March 8th, so I want to go to the deputy corps, to all of our colleagues in the Institute of Memory, that setting up national holidays is the priority and prerogative of the government and the Supreme Council. And today it's March 8th, May 9th, it's not a question of decommunization. Great respect for women, and the vast majority of women today work in executive, legislative authorities, in all areas of the life of our country, and the beauty of our parliament is women.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u6	I appeal to you, my dear colleagues, responsible for addressing this issue, for closing this issue and for giving that tribute to a woman, to a mother who is today the most worthy, the most influential not only of us in the country, but also in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u7	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak is the head of the People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Yesterday, in several cities in Ukraine, the authorities took care of them. I understand that citizens have the right to express their vision and their attitude towards power, but I would like to point out that in some cities there is something behind these peaks that politicians are doing everything they can to stir up the internal political situation in Ukraine. Politicians who are irresponsible in doing so are working out what Putin wants in the Kremlin to do: stir up the internal political situation in Ukraine. 100 years have passed since the events that have led to the impoverishment of the development of the Ukrainian State as an independent state. Therefore, I believe that we need to resolve all these issues politically on this site in the Supreme Council, not to rock the situation in Ukraine. Look, in my native Montenegrins, a meeting of the Montenegrin City Council was convened at a very fast pace, where a decision was taken on the council, where the majority now consists of the team of Dmitri Firtash, who are doing everything they can to stir up the situation in the Montenegrins, who are doing everything they can to ensure that the Montenegrins do not take place as a modern European city. So I'm sure that the police, I want to remind everyone that all the pilots that were detained yesterday, they're out and they're moving around in Ukraine. Secondly, I believe that the police's actions were balanced, clear and acted in accordance with the current legislation on anti-terrorist operations. Please tell me, does anyone have the right to be above the law? You don't have that right. Very many politicians love to do selfies with the police, but they now put themselves above the police. So, I'm sure everything was done yesterday to make sure that the situation was in the framework of actual legislation. Second, last week, the first hearings were held at the UN International Court of Justice in the Ukraine v. Russia case. The Yatzenuk government has started the process of preparing appeals to Russia in the course of hearings in international courts. Today, all the powers of the states — legal, diplomatic and our deputies — must be geared towards a positive outcome in the UN International Court of Justice. Today, the first issue of the agenda is the ratification of the free trade zone with Canada. I would like to remind you that this agreement was signed by Prime Minister Yatsenuk and then continued to be implemented by the government of Groisman. And today we have to put the final dot in this dotted job so that Canada's markets, where there's a very powerful Ukrainian diaspora, are open to us so that we can rebuild our economy and go to new markets in order to diversify our supply. Therefore, I am confident that political responsibility should be here in this session room and that we will not give irresponsible politicians the right to resolve the situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u9	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the People's Front, excuse me, from the Opposition Block, People's Deputy Wilkul. Please, Mr. Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u10	The distinguished people of Ukraine, respected people's deputies, I was in the city of Dneprodžinsk yesterday, now Kamensky, in the meth-combination of the name of Djerjinsky. There's only one domain stove, six floats in the last day. 17,000, the labour force, received 25 per cent of the salary for January alone. Steel industry is on the verge of halting in almost all industrial cities. Dnepropetrovsk, Petrovsky plant; Zaporoztal, Zaporozhye; Mariupol, Azostal, Metcombinate of Ilic's name; Crixus Gokis, Arcelor Mittal Curve Horn. Respectable blockades, return unrespected blockades.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I very much ask that we now have order in the session room. Dear Mr. Wilkul, you have the perfect Ukrainian language. Please, I'm asking everyone to step aside, I'm asking everyone to step away from the rostrum and allow the representative of the Opposition Block to speak. I want to address Mr. Yuri from the People's Front, from the People's Front, by the way. This Friday. Dear Mr. Yuri, Mr. Yuri of the People's Front! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this Friday was a situation where a representative of the People's Front spoke Russian from the rostrum. I ask all my colleagues to attend Friday meetings and hear what is happening here. Just like a member of the Radical Party: he spoke in Russian and switched to Ukrainian. Either one law to all, or please, let us honor one another. To the speaker, in turn, I ask you to speak in the national language. Thank you very much. Yes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u12	Let's look at the situation last week. There's no industry, people are already trying.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u13	Dear colleague, please don't strain the situation. I'm asking you, too. I'm not turning off the microphone. Look, I want to take a look at the session room right now. This Friday, a representative of the People's Front spoke Russian from the rostrum. Everything was quiet and quiet and all that. If we're now talking about everyone speaking only in national language, I'm addressing everyone who's speaking, please, but I'm asking no one to break the order of the hall and not interrupt our distinguished speaker. Please, Mr. Wilkul, you have the perfect Ukrainian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u14	People will unlock these roads themselves. Kupjansk, Konotop, long-range strikes, Wilkovo fishermen cover roads, and the miners of Lvivščina rush – this is the situation in the country. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers signs unknown memorandums from the IMF, committing to selling Ukrainian land to make Ukrainians a fortress. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers undertakes to undertake pension reform, increase retirement age and increase retirement. People who live to the age of retirement will not receive a pension. Courage must be given up on humiliating conditions; money must be taken from the working economy, not from these humiliating conditions, and walking around the world with an outstretched hand. The entire month remains until the end of the immunity of the current Government. In signing this treaty with the IMF, in order to betray Ukraine's interests, we will, in large measure, demand the resignation of the Government. Now we demand that the bills that our country needs be put into the room, those that will support the people. This is a reduction in public tariffs twice. We're told it's populism, it's not populism. To double the utility tariffs, it takes only 20 billion bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u15	Dear colleague, you have three minutes. You have 10 seconds to finish. Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u16	So when they decided to nationalize Private Bank, 150 billion found in one day, they can't find 20 billion. We demand that these bills be put into the hall and that we support our economy and stop the industrial collapse.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u17	I ask once again all speakers to respect the national language of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u18	Ira, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an announcement. After the last time that discussion took place, I passed a bill that all the speeches at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine could be held only in the national language. On that point, I see discussions continue. And so, colleagues, I now have a task for the regulatory committee to consider this bill on Wednesday, so that we can get it into the agenda of the day and legally establish that at the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, only in the national language can they speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask that all the factions of Parliament discuss this. And I hope that all the factions of Parliament will support this initiative, and we will be able to regulate this situation in the near future. My colleagues, may I count on the support of the hall? So we're legally regulating everything, and by law we're going to remove this duality. And I hope that the whole room will be supported. He's coming to the floor right now. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Arthur Gerasimov is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u19	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Is there any doubt in this room that we are going on and on the Kremlin’s side of aggression? I don't think so. Does anyone doubt in this room that the Kremlin is currently leading this aggression not only on the front lines but inside our country: information, economic and political? So when we talk about the blockade that was organized, first of all, we need to understand clearly who it works for. On the other hand, she works for terrorists and invaders. And now about the events that happened yesterday. When the possibility of carrying out terrorist acts in the area of conducting an antiterrorist operation increased significantly, the Ukrainian police asked the people in whom the weapons were found to hand it over. Which I've been denied. And you know, I have a few questions. If we say that the weapon was registered, where did the grenades come from? As far as I know Ukrainian legislation, they can't be registered. The second question is, why weren't there politicians? And why did they frame veterans who sincerely believe in the idea? The third question is, why were there so many judges before? And you know, I'd like to take another look at what happened in the shells that also happened yesterday and tonight. Someone is very eager to open up the entire inner front and open up the situation. But once again, let's ask a very simple question: who would benefit from it? And the answer is very simple. And I think there's no doubt in this room that it's advantageous to an aggressor first of all. Should we do so? No, it's not. We must be the only ones in the fight against the aggressor. And finally. Do I support the fight against smuggling? Of course I do. We all need to unite clearly so that no smuggling can pass through the front line. But when we talk about the threat of economic growth, when we talk about jobs, wages and pensions being threatened, here, I think, we need to make our priorities clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u20	The will of the people is Melniczuk Sergei. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u21	Dear Ukrainian people! Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! First of all, I want to welcome all the volunteers to the festival! All those who went to protect Ukraine in 2014 who are still protecting it. And I ask you to stop now the mess and those who have died to honor the moment of silence. Please stand up, everyone. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. It's going on. The blockade on Donbassa has been under way for a month and a half. I'm not going to do what economic damage this blockade is doing to the state of Ukraine, but I want to see where it all started. And it all started on the first day of the conflict. Smuggling was just before the war, and it's still there. And the whole conflict is that there is now a conflict between the interests of some political and economic structures that are trying to live up to it. But the problem is that some national MPs and some political power have decided to raise dividends on the blood of those who have died and on human fate. Because tens of thousands of jobs have already been lost and tens of thousands will be lost. The enemy used this to enter the so-called passports "LNR", "DNR". Illegal military formations will in fact nationalize all the Ukrainian that remains there. And further away from us is the Ukrainian people, who are now in controlled territories. I am leading to our being united. To unite in this room and decide everything here in Parliament, not to walk and instigate volunteer fighters, those who really believe in it, call them names and raise them, and stir up the situation in the country. But I believe that none of the politicians who went to the front and raised them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u22	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u23	None of them will go like me and the other fighters, leading them against the enemy in front of the armory. They're going to sit in better shape in sweatshirts, in cafes, in bars, in Facebook, and in worse form, they're going to go into boilers and surrender to the enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u24	From the Self-Help faction, Berezuk Oleg Romanovich. Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u25	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! After last night's power attack on the volunteers, as a gift and a welcome to Volunteer Day, we still can't have information about the whereabouts of Paul Valerijovich Gerasimenko, a 25-year-old volunteer from the Idar combat, who lost a leg under Metalist. We demand that we, the HQ and the MAF, immediately provide information about what is happening to this person and at least welcome him to Volunteer Day. This country needs real stability, but not the stability of the highest case, which is established at the cemetery of the colonial state, but the stability of development, the stability of resistance, the stability of movement from colony to home. Yesterday there was an extraordinary situation: a nation of its own took a stand against its own people, acting as a state instead of it, a function of announcing economic sanctions against an aggressor state that occupied and occupied Ukrainian territory, and is destroying the Ukrainian independent state politically and economically. Yesterday the state said, "No! We're not going to talk to you, we're going to humiliate you, war veterans, and we're going to protect the interests of 3-4 Ukrainian oligarchs who serve the aggressor." It's not betrayal, it's just a political orientation on despotism. Yesterday, power came against its own people. How many hours has the government spent negotiating with those who work for it? I'm sure he's slowing down. More time has been spent for the organization of yesterday's operation to degrade the human dignity and dignity of a veteran of the Ukrainian army who came at the request of the heart, not the order of a defence minister in the 14th year to protect the country. What do you want to do? The country needs stability. The government must immediately enter into negotiations with the people who perform its functions; the government must immediately release all those arrested yesterday; the government must immediately release the Minister of Internal Affairs and the director of the anti-terrorist centre. Why? Because the authorities yesterday have destabilized the Ukrainian state. This is a matter that destabilizes the Ukrainian state and causes internal conflict. It's this state right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u26	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u27	You don't have to. And this Parliament should not stick its head in the sand and tell us about the lost jobs that have long been under occupation for the Ukrainian economy, but rather admit the reality and help the government, and determine that we have occupied territories by adopting the Act on Occupied Areas. The entire Ukrainian people today, including 86, if not more, have helped the government and acknowledged the blockade.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u28	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u29	"Resistance of colonization where you stand" should be our motto today. "Resist against colonization where you stand," I'm in the rostrum, and you're in your town where you live.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u30	From the Radical Party is Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. First of all, I want to welcome all the volunteers to their day in Ukraine for the first time today. When Russian aggression began three years ago, when the Yanukovitch gang, whose weaknesses are still sitting in this room and having a conspiracies with today's government, sat down, that's why this Yanukovich gang destroyed the service, destroyed the army, destroyed the country's defenses, the first to stand up for the country, they were volunteers. Young boys and girls, volunteers, volunteers who went straight from Midan to the front of volunteer battalions, who were on their own looking for any possibilities, including in our faction: Dmitri Linko, Igor Mosiyczuk, Andry Lozovy are the people who have been on the front since the first day and helped the front. So I want to bow low and thank all the volunteers, all the volunteers, all our country defenders, the border guards, the military, the National Guard, all those protecting the country. It's an honor and a thank you! At the same time, I would like to comment on what happened yesterday in the east. I want to state the official position of the Radical Party faction and my personal position as the leader of our political power. We are definitely against the use of force in relations with participants in the Donbas blockade. We think that when power is used, it's the worst thing that can happen. We need to use not force, we need to look for compromises, we need to convince each other and we need to make a deal, and the decision-making ground needs to be here in Parliament. We believe that Parliament and we demand the head of Parliament to put and today decide on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate yesterday's events in the eastern part of the country so that we can find out what actually happened there and so that those who use force can be held accountable. We demand that Parliament adopt the Occupied Areas Act without delay, recognize the obvious things and bring this matter to order at the legislative level. We invite parliament to adopt the Law on the Movement of Goods through the Collision Line and to stop deafly any smuggling, any abuse, any trade that can't be. But at the same time, we should remember that there are Ukrainians, our people, and the Ukrainian State’s tasks to support, help, and do everything possible to free these people. We ask the authorities not to use weapons against Ukrainians, not to go after a brother because only the enemy wins. The Ukrainians have to be united, the only one, we have one enemy: the Russian aggressor! When we're together, we can defeat any enemy when we're separated, the enemy will defeat us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u32	Thank you. So all those who wanted to speak. "Paternity," why didn't they sign up? [[B in m in s a l in]] They logged in, it just didn't work out. I'm just stressing that to be fair, I believe the system didn't work. And I'd like to invite you to the words of "Fatherland" Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. I hope there's no such technical failures for the second time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, yesterday on March 13 was unprecedented because of their injustice and humiliation, an event. The power structures of Ukraine, no doubt at the hands of the President, have taken strong action against ATO veterans, against volunteers who have blocked the blood trade and made billions of dollars for the invaders in order to act against Ukraine and capture Ukraine. March 13 is a sign day, because on March 13th, the first Ukrainian sacrifice was made when the occupation of Donbas began. Dmitri Czernyavsky, the "liberator", who died because when they went to a rally to protect Ukraine and Ukraine's Donbas, the very power structures of Ukraine betrayed these people and because they betrayed them, this person was just torn apart, cut. And so yesterday, the power structures went against the Ukrainians, against the Ukrainian people, because not only did veterans block the blood trade. The blood trade was blocked by Ukraine, which disagrees with what the Ukrainian authorities earn in war rather than end war. I want to draw your attention to the legal analysis that the ex-judge of the Constitutional Court, Victor Shishkin, has done, an honest, devoted man to Ukraine, regarding these circumstances. He made it clear that, according to article 8 bis of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the front line cannot be crossed by interested persons for the purpose of commercial activity, supply of materials, equipment, raw materials or goods. That is what the Ukrainian authorities did: they were directly violating the Rome Statute. And that's why the Rome Statute is not ratified in this room because they want to make money in war, not fight war and not stop it. Victor Shishkin also wrote that under part one of article 17 of the Constitution, the protection of sovereignty is the responsibility of every citizen, not just the state. And if officials fail to perform their duties to protect Ukraine, it is the duty of citizens to do so. And that's why our ATO veterans, our volunteers who blocked trade in war, they were protecting Ukraine, and the criminals are the authorities that are actually making money for death.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u34	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u35	And that's why our "Paternity" faction requires, firstly, the responsibility of the first person in the state to give orders, a team to deal with our atolls that blocked trade in war. Secondly, immediately adopt the Act on Occupied Areas. And thirdly, we need all the people to defend the cessation of trade in occupied areas. Either we're releasing Ukraine or we're giving it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u36	Ten seconds, complete, but 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u37	or we give today’s corrupt authorities war to use for their own ends and never end it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, statements by MPs and groups have been completed, but before we move to the agenda there is a statement from two factions: "The People's Front" and the Radical Party of Laszka. They're changing the time off from the rostrum, that's three minutes. And I invite you from two factions to the performance of the national deputy, Andrew Teteruk, and then we move on to the agenda. Please, my friend Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I have the honour, on behalf of the representatives of volunteer departments in Parliament, to welcome the Day of the Ukrainian Volunteer. During the first difficult days of Russian aggression, it was the volunteers who defended the home land and destroyed the Kremlin’s plans for Ukraine’s rapid capture. It was the Ukrainian volunteers who gave their loyalty to the country, their courage, their determination to give the state time for the restoration of the Ukrainian army. After the country’s call to the heart, volunteers became the ideal focus of the updated forces in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, the National Police, the Ukrainian Security Service, and other forces. A great honor and a low waste from the Ukrainian people! Many military operations have entered the history of Ukraine: fighting under Saur-Mogila, defending Lugansk and Donetsk Airports, the Debaltsian Operation and fighting under Ilovysk. Many who have defended the country have been injured or given their most precious life. We appeal to the President of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine by his decree to establish a Day of Respect for the Memory of Ukraine’s Dead Defenders. We suggest that this day of August 29 be defined as the day when the Ukrainian army suffered the greatest loss, but in the face of death, no soldier laid down arms and a Ukrainian flag. Not only the enemy then, but we have demonstrated the integrity of the Ukrainian nation to all the world. Respect for memory is our duty to the dead, to their families, and to all the Ukrainian people. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u40	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we are moving to the agenda and we are starting our work, the work of ratifying the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada. This is, without exaggeration, a historic and important document for strengthening Ukraine's economy. Since its acquisition, the contract has opened up 98 percent of the Canadian product market for Ukrainian exporters. Import duties on agricultural and industrial goods from Ukraine to Canada will be abolished immediately. Also important, the agreement contributes to the development of aviation cooperation. In the long run, there is an increase in the supply of high - tech equipment and high - value industrial goods. This agreement also foresees providing technical assistance to Ukraine to improve access to the Canadian market and to help develop an agricultural complex. Colleagues, according to the Supreme Council, the final decision is to make the deal work. This is what the whole Ukrainian business is looking forward to, and I hope that we will be able to unite and make this decision today. So let's move on to ratification, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada (0120). And I ask my colleagues to support the review of the reduced procedure. I'm going to let all the factions speak out and suggest a summary procedure, my colleague. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. In the Chamber of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Stepan Kubov, who actually signed the agreement on 11 July 2016. [[10:47:20]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to the words of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Stephen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! It's good to be in this room, seeing you. What is more, today we are considering a very important issue: the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished invitees, representatives of the Canadian community of Ukrainians! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada is being submitted to your consideration. The bill provides for the ratification of free trade between Ukraine and Canada, which the President authorized me to sign on July 11, 2016 in Kiev. The free trade agreement between Ukraine and Canada lays down the legal framework for the free trade regime between Ukraine and Canada. I would like to stress that the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada is the first document since the Association Agreement with the EU, which covers the market of such a wide scale. The Free Trade Agreement opens up opportunities for Ukrainian business. The agreement also continues to redirect Ukrainian enterprises to all markets except Russian. At the same time, I want to say that the future agreement will be an effective tool for substantially increasing the volume of trade in goods and correcting the situation. I would also like to thank Mrs. Christie Freeland, Mrs. Mikolski, Mr. Vaschuk, Shevchenko, Mrs. Gopko, and all the committee heads who have supported and done a great job today, which we will confirm by our vote. Ladies and gentlemen, given that the bill is aimed at improving the effectiveness of the national economy, please accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Stephen. And I invite the head of the Committee on Questions to report. in the foreign affairs of Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! And I would like to join them in all greetings with Volunteer Day and thank them for their important work in protecting the territorial integrity, the sovereignty of Ukraine. Today we are looking at the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada, which is an extremely important step because Canada is a powerful market that imports almost $420 billion of US dollars annually, and this is a unique opportunity for us to invest additional investment in business development. Foreign direct investment in Ukraine is projected to increase in the medium term by at least $36 million, plus 56 percent annually. And it's also very important for us today to mention those Ukrainians in Canada, the Ukrainian diaspora, for all their efforts, particularly Canada's policies to increase sanctions against the Russian Federation. And I would also like to thank the Canadian government for that financial assistance in military training, and to say that the ratification of this agreement, which has already been ratified on February 15 by the Lower House of Parliament of Canada and also in the Senate on the second reading, remains the third reading and signature, and I very much hope that this will then be a huge boost to increase trade. I would like to thank the Government of Ukraine, Mr. Kubev, Mrs. Natalia Mikolski, who is now in Turkey with the Prime Minister and the delegation. And we also expect from the government of Ukraine the following free trade agreements: with Israel, with other countries -- to diversify Ukraine's exports, given the difficult situation we have with the Russian Federation's aggressor state. And what I'm saying is that this agreement is an extremely possible access to the markets of North America. Canada is a country of the Great Seven. It's also a tremendous impetus and a signal for other investors, but everything will depend on the ability of the Ukrainian Parliament to work effectively and to seek compromises.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u44	Please. We're done, aren't we? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up. From Fatherland, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u45	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please give the word to Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u46	Thank you. On behalf of the Fatherland faction, I would like to state immediately that the Fatherland faction will support the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada. Canada and Ukraine are linked by millions of human contacts. Canada has one of the largest, most influential Ukrainian communities, and more than a million Ukrainians live in Canada. Canada was the first country to support and acknowledge Ukraine’s state independence. Canada today is one of the authors of military assistance to Ukraine, training of Ukrainian military personnel, and we should be grateful for that. At the same time, I want to say that the level of trade between our countries does not correspond to the high political human contact that exists between our countries. 246 million dollars a year alone was the trade between Ukraine and Canada. So let me remind you that Canada is one of the big seven countries, so if you compare the shipment of Ukraine to the Big Seven countries, Canada is the last in the Big Seven countries to the goods, I'll remind you, $246 million. So we hope that the ratification of this agreement, its becoming effective, and the work of this agreement will lead to a significant increase in the trade between our countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u47	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Alexei Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party will, of course, support the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. According to the terms of this agreement, Canada will cancel the duty for more than 90 percent of Ukrainian exports. Experts expect an increase of more than $40 million per year in existing deliveries of Ukrainian goods to Canada, and this is only about increasing existing exports. Of course, there will also be new market players under favourable conditions, i.e. total numbers, I hope they will be even higher. In addition, the Ukrainian agricultural sector will receive technical assistance from Canada to improve the competitiveness of our products, and such assistance will benefit Ukraine not only in bilateral relations with Canada, but also, of course, with our counterparts around the world. This agreement is of enormous importance to the Ukrainian economy, it opens up a new market and will stimulate the domestic producer. Of course, I would like to thank the faction of Peter Prashenko for the conscientious work of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, the team of Mikolski. And I urge everyone to vote for this extremely important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u49	Thank you. It's from the Radical Party, Halasyuk Victor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u50	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction supports the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, as well as any international agreements that create new jobs for Ukrainians who invest in our country that help increase our exports. But I want to stress that this agreement is only an opportunity, not a guarantee of creating new jobs and increasing Ukrainian exports. Why? Because the balance of trade with Canada for Ukraine is, unfortunately, still negative. We buy much more in Canada than we sell there. This can only be rectified with the help of the Export Credit Agency, which unfortunately has not yet been created by the government and against which the National Bank and Potteryev speak. Look at Canada's Credit Agency. With this institution, Canada generates more than $60 billion of GDP per year. It's consistent with all of GDP, the whole economy of Ukraine. So we need to learn to protect our national interests, to protect our own citizen. And that's not the only thing we need to learn in Canada. Look at the terms of this agreement. They are expected to be excluded from free trade mode for timber exports. What are we talking about? It's about Canada being able to ban the export of roundwood. And what I'm going to tell you is that Canada did this back in 1906, one of the first in the world to impose a ban on the export of roundwood, which in various forms is operating to this day. So our government, our Ministry of Economics, should not just sign this agreement, but rather create an Export Credit Agency, save a moratorium on the export of roundwood, try not to try to make shameful affairs happen. And above all, take care of the Ukrainian citizen, the Ukrainian producer, and the exporter. Then there will be economic growth, wages and pensions for Ukrainians. This is needed in the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u51	Thank you. The opposition block is Gusak Vladimir Georgievicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u52	Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellows, dear Head! We read very carefully the text of this covenant and the materials that are being added, and we listened very carefully to all who made this covenant. And so it seems that many speakers live in a parallel world. It used terms like "great value for the Ukrainian economy." And even a little bit less understood and little-known term, like "diversification." Dear colleagues! If you read the appendix to this agreement, it says that it will increase exports from Ukraine by almost $3 million. It's a drop in the sea. For comparison. It is estimated that as a result of the blockade on uncontrolled areas, Ukraine’s exports will decrease by $3.5 billion this year! Not millions, but billions. That's a thousand times more! In the past three years, Ukraine’s exports have plummeted by 35 billion! Billions, not millions, dollars, or double. With regard to this covenant, there is nothing wrong with it. But the government and the majority in today’s parliament should stop doing so in terms of pianists and start taking real steps to increase Ukrainian production and exports.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, two minutes, Burbak. Who will act? Mikhail Humil, please. Then it's Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u54	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I want to say that the People's Front faction will definitely support the Canadian free trade ratification project. I would like to remind you that the process that was now in progress, namely the ratification of the free trade zone between Canada, began almost two years ago under the direction of the then government of Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk, who signed the first agreement, the beginning of the agreement, with the Prime Minister of Canada in Canada. Thank you very much for saying the same thing to Natalia Mikolski. Separately, we have to express our gratitude to the Ukrainian-Canada Chamber of Commerce, headed by Zenon Poticny, and to all those who have joined in the project. We're talking about the trade with Canada being just $249 million. But it is this number that should alert us and make every effort to get us to a much larger volume and exports, including. The diversification of exports is what needs to be the main thing in us. We're talking about a slight increase, maybe I'll export it to Canada, but we need to talk about ours the same way. To modernize our industry so that our goods meet the standards of both the European Union and the world level. We need to build up all the necessary institutions to increase our exports, including working on an export credit agency. The People's Front faction clearly votes in favour and everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u55	30 seconds, please. We're done, aren't we? Thank you. From Self-Help, please, Olena Sotnik, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u56	It's obvious that we've been supporting a deal with our long-standing partner, with a country that has, in fact, been really helping us in the last three years when we were fighting an aggressor, or the most helpful one. This and the humanitarian aid is millions of dollars of aid to our military, it's an expert aid. I can't help but mention how during the actual symbolic vote against the holding of the next session of the Inter-Parliamentary Union in St. Petersburg or whether Canada and Australia were the only countries that stood by us and were against it. We thank them for that. We have to recognize that this agreement is more of a symbol, it's a symbol, first of all, not for the Ukrainian authorities, it's a symbol for the Ukrainian people, a symbol that our partner supports us and a symbol that he stays with us, no matter what. Yes, we need to maintain a relationship, a trade relationship with worthy partners. But stop trading with the aggressor, the invader, and stop the blood trade. This will be a priority and a symbolic move. I also want to point out that, unlike Ukraine, Canada is now developing a broad plan for Ukraine to fight the aggressor. What does Ukraine do? What is Parliament doing? Do you have a plan to fight an aggressor? We demand that this plan be implemented, that we be worthy of our partners and allies, and that we start fighting the aggressor in Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament, that we adopt the Act on Occupied Territories, that we recognize the LNR, the DNR by terrorist organizations, and that we stop deceiving people and covering up the situation, that tragic situation with this kind of vote, they're not going to solve it right now. That is why we call for the implementation of the Ukrainian plan and the maintenance of relations with worthy trading partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. All those who wanted to speak. So I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Chamber. In one minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process. From non-froaking who? Illenko, one more minute from the non-fractional and we move on to the vote. Please, I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, and it is important that this decision has great support in the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, 1 minute for Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u58	This law certainly needs to be voted on. But as nationalist deputies in the Supreme Council, we can't keep our mouths shut, the moment when the authorities took powerful action against the crackdown of the blood trade blockade. Because yesterday’s events show that some have simply dried their brains away from money, from these corrupt, oligarchic schemes, and have lost not only their common sense but also their sense of self - preservation by taking aggressive action against veterans. So in this situation, we think it's a border crossing. We believe that yesterday’s night’s response in Kiev, in Cherniv, in Lutsk, in Winnitz indicates that the people’s patience is breaking out. And today we demand specific clear action from Parliament. The Minister of Internal Affairs is due to arrive in Parliament immediately, the head of the BSS in order to answer what happened yesterday. And I am sure that Parliament must make, including personnel decisions. We are also confident that our bill, which has been in Parliament for two years now, should be brought to the fore on the prohibition of trade with temporarily occupied persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u59	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u60	trade in temporarily occupied areas. And immediately Parliament must stop this shameful practice that is taking place there. And we urge you not to hide your head in the sand, but finally to start making decisions in the interests of the Ukrainian nation, because otherwise the people will say their word and some will envy Yanukovic's fate. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Please. Colleagues, there's going to be a vote, take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada (No. 0120) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support your colleagues. Vote. [[11:07:59]] For 272 [[Applause]] Decision taken. Colleagues, I will immediately sign this bill on the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada. I welcome our colleagues who have come to support our hall in this decision. [[Applause]] And it is obvious that those who do not want the good of Ukraine voted against this covenant. And I'm sure this is another step that we've taken that is important for the independence of our economic state. Congratulations, colleagues, the law is passed. The next issue of agenda is another ratification: the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (number 0125). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and support the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:09:21]] For 190 Thank you. Decision taken. Alexander Danieluk, minister, is invited to the report. Minister of Finance, Alexander Danieluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u62	Hello, everybody! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies and Presence! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and on capital and the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the amendment of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and on capital. The draft law is designed to implement the internal State procedures necessary for the convention and protocol to take effect in relations between the two countries. The need to establish a convention and a protocol is explained by the fact that income generated in economic relations between residents of Ukraine and Luxembourg is subject to double taxation. First, in a country where the recipient of the income is a resident and, secondly, in a country where there is an activity that generates income. Thus, these conventions and protocols will help to avoid double taxation, prevent tax evasion, reduce mutual tax barriers to foreign investment and trade. That is, they will stimulate bilateral economic activity. This is particularly important with regard to Ukraine, since tax legislation is in place, it provides for the avoidance of double taxation only on the basis of the signing of bilateral international agreements. In addition, the convention and protocol are aimed at eliminating tax discrimination, creating mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Luxembourg by establishing mutual reconciliation procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u63	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u64	Providing tax exchange. The subjects of the convention and protocol are the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u65	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the European Integration Committee, Ionov Maria Mikolayovna. Please, Mrs. Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation. In our view, the ratification of the Protocol Convention will help to avoid double taxation of Ukrainian and Luxembourg-owned entities who will be guaranteed that profits derived from entrepreneurial activities in another country and dividends, interest and royalty will not be subject to double taxation. The ratifications of the convention and the protocol will also contribute to the mutual reduction of tax barriers to trade and foreign investment and the prevention of tax evasion. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Budget Issues, the bill may result in a change in budget income rates in the coming budget periods and may become effective in accordance with legislation. In line with the findings of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption, the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation and does not contain corruption-related factors. Therefore, the Supreme Council Committee on European Integration considers it appropriate to ratify the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and on the Prevention of Tax Rebates on Income Taxes and on Capital. This decision is also in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u67	Thank you. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Please hold the recording. Corchik Vitaly Andriyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u68	Dear friends! This morning, I and Nina Petrovna Jujanina met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Jean Asselborn, at which we spoke about all the controversial issues raised prior to this ratification. And I want to point out that this ratification needs to be supported, because it will prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination, create mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg through the establishment of mutual reconciliation procedures. And what's not important is to ensure the exchange of tax information. The ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Protocol will primarily create favourable conditions for investors in Ukraine and Luxembourg. What are investors for Ukraine? This is a significant increase in jobs in terms of mass unemployment, it's improving infrastructure, stimulating the economy and developing the country as a whole. So I ask all my colleagues to support this ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u69	Thank you. Sidorovich Ruslan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u71	Please, talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, indeed, the Luxembourg Convention is a typical, seemingly, convention and income tax in the form of, for example, dividends of 15.5, for royalty of 10.5, for interest, of 10.5, if this is a bank loan. But when voting for her, her consideration should take into account the fact that Luxembourg’s very special feature is the presence of anonymous stock companies with shares in it. It is unknown who is the ultimate beneficiary of such societies and, accordingly, who controls the bank account and the money that is on it. Indeed, Luxembourg has joined the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Disputes in recent years. This happened in 2016 and to the OECD Global Forum on Transparency and Tax Exchange. But these documents are primarily about transfer pricing and BEPS’s fifth step. But we need to communicate information without warning, without regard, without the requirement of national tax interest or bank secrecy. And I want to quote you, it's the protocol that contains an article that allows you to disclose any information, including the beneficial owner, and it's impossible to refer to that information as belonging to a bank or other financial institution assigned to a nominal owner. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to support this convention, together with the protocol to it, solely on the grounds that there is full and unconditional communication of information, tax information and banking information. We'll finally learn about the owners of those anonymous stock companies that are, they have their roots in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party is Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u74	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The U.S. CIA estimates that in the past couple of years it has raised up to $20 billion offshore. Finance Minister Daniluk is one of four persons, including President Prashenko, Prime Minister Groisman and head of the National Bank of Honduras, who recently signed a secret memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. You're taking a billion dollars of credit, saying that there's no way to keep a purse without the International Monetary Fund's loans, to cover the government budget deficit, and to solve other pressing issues in our country. At the same time, you're not doing anything to cover off-shore holes. You're pulling tens, hundreds of billions of dollars out of Ukraine, stealing from every Ukrainian, and taking those loans, raising the retirement age, selling land, raising tariffs, eliminating educational and medical institutions. I'm asking, who gave you the right to sign these documents in secret from the Ukrainians? Why didn't you, as finance minister of Ukraine, just come out to this rostrum and show this document? They did not inform the Ukrainians, nor did they inform the parliament of the agreements reached. We live in a democratic state, your government formed a Compradorian parliamentary coalition, but that doesn't mean you have to hide the truth from the Ukrainians. So, Mr. Daniluk, I demand of you, as one of those who signed the sentence to Ukraine, unfortunately, not with your blood you signed this sentence, but with the blood of the Ukrainians you sign these sentences, I demand that you publish this memo and stop cursing the Ukrainians, and not sell land by robbing the peasants, turning them into batteries, without raising the retirement age and closing off the offshore holes. And then they got loans like flea bitches instead of keeping order inside of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u75	From "The Fatherland" Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u76	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, when we criticize the government and accuse us of being proficient, we also direct our proposals. The Fatherland has clear proposals on how to fill the income part of the state, and the Fatherland has clear proposals on how to stop this economic stagnation. First of all, we're talking about one of the mechanisms being the de-offshoring mechanism. And we have proposed to the Ukrainian Parliament to support a package of bills that clearly brings out the offshore and returns to the Ukrainian economy, healing it, the assets of our businessmen and our oligarchs. What is proposed in the provisions of the bill tabled by the Government of Ukraine? So the first is the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation, which was signed by the Government of Ukraine on September 1, 1997, and the second is the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Luxembourg amending such an unratified convention, which was signed by the Government of Groissman on September 30, 2016. Therefore, the ratification tax rates proposed by the Convention with Luxembourg are the same rates as those set out in the Convention with the Republic of Cyprus signed in 2012. Sadly, both conventions contain corrupt articles on exempting people from taxation. And secondly, the Protocol of the 1997 Convention of 2016 proposes to exclude the two odious standards contained in article 10, paragraph 3, and article 28. So our proposal is to send a bill to the government for further work. "Paternality" will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u77	Please, colleagues, we're going to the vote in a minute. Are there any other speakers? Okay. One minute to Lewchenk, one minute to Matvienkov, right? Debenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u78	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In this room every plenary day we hear from coalition representatives, we hear from officials, from ministers, from other high-level owners who don't have money. No money for schools, no money for hospitals, no money for roads, no money for pensions, no money for normal minimum wage, no money for anything in the country, no money for nothing in the budget. But we still have a deal with the Republic of Cyprus, and billions of them are made through transfer pricing, and huge corruption schemes are in place, with no taxes on luxury. And now, like a cherry on a cake, in this Supreme Council they're proposing to vote on the second Treaty with the Republic of Cyprus, almost equally, you know, I'm looking at it, they're trying to change the Republic of Cyprus to something there. So instead of Cyprus, they're offering Luxembourg that we now have a new Cyprus, not an island, but a small country in the middle of the European Union. It's totally unacceptable stuff, it's a continuation of offshore fraud.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u79	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u80	This is a continuation of the total legal withdrawal of billions from Ukraine, resulting in the poverty of the vast majority of the Ukrainian population. Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u81	Debenkov, one minute. And, colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes. Please come into the hall and invite the deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a very large request from experts (in paws) who are now thinking about whether or not to make agreements to avoid double taxation should not be distributed in the hall. Conventions on the avoidance of double taxation are a global practice. All countries sign these conventions. But reading to the end, not just the name of this convention, does not mean exemption from taxation. The resident who received a foreign income is freed in a foreign country or pays a certain part of the tax, but the difference is paid in the territory of Ukraine. There is no need to confuse the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation with tax evasion in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is unprofessional, as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u83	Colleagues, now Irina Heratchenko, one minute, and we're going to vote. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, let me get out of here. With regard to this convention. It was absolutely fair for the speaking colleagues to say that this is a framework convention that Ukraine has with many other countries. It was suggested that some of the faction colleagues make changes here. As you know, there is no such function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make changes to international conventions, so we should vote in the way it came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And on the other hand, I want to point out that in these days there is a Minister of Foreign Affairs in Luxembourg, Jean Asselborn, and yesterday he and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, by the way, Ukraine, were in Shirokina, and they saw with their own eyes what was going on in Donbas. Allow me to thank the Luxembourg Foreign Minister for the fact that our European colleagues are actually coming not only to Kiev today when they want to see what is happening in Ukraine but also to visit the East. I think this gives the European Union a better understanding of what Ukraine is doing today, including to protect security in European space, but also to carry out reforms. Please support this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u85	So, colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, the discussion is over. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (number 0125) on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. So let's go to the vote. Please vote, please support 0125 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:27:57]] For 236 Decision taken. Colleagues! It's been decided. The law is passed. Colleagues! It's very short now. We have six drafts to put into the agenda. You know that the President of Ukraine has introduced laws as urgent. In order for us to be able to quickly consider them and put them into the agenda, we need to include them in the agenda of the day session. So I ask everyone to take up jobs. These bills were in order on the day, and I'm sure the factions were able to get to know them, make decisions about them. And I'm asking now that we get through quickly and make decisions. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting first for the agenda. We're not going to be looking at them right now, it's just getting into the agenda. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. The first is the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (No.6172). Please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. This is the support of our military personnel. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:29:40]] For 238. Decision taken. The next is a bill amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act to implement the right to change citizenship. Also introduced by the President as urgent. Please be supportive. Please vote. 6175. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Let's vote, colleagues. A law that applies to dual citizenship. [[11:30:14]] For 234 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending Chapter V of the Ukrainian Act on State Prizes for the Assignment of the Name Hero of Ukraine. Who doesn't know, this law is necessary so that we can name the Hero of Ukraine as the Hero of the Heavenly Hundreds of Life. Colleagues, please vote. Please support the 6174 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[11:30:57]] For 245 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (for road infrastructure on the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border). Budget Committee, 6143. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. We included all the bills that we had before us. [[11:31:30.]] For 241 Decision taken. And the next one. It's also a budget committee. Draft Act amending Chapter VI, Final and Transitional Provisions, of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for the implementation of medium-term budgetary planning) 6161. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please, 611, please vote. [[11:32:03]] For 219 The decision is not taken. I can do it again. It is close to 226. Guys, I'll put it back on. Concentrate. It's a government initiative. Colleagues, please concentrate. I'm going to put it to the vote again, and I'm going to ask you to take the job. So the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine, 6161. This is an initiative of the government, this is the budget committee, Pavelko Andry Vasilovich. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, only the session. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:32:59]] For 223 Three votes. My colleagues, I'll put it again, I'm not limited to law, but I'll put it on endlessly. I put it last time because there are only three votes missing. Please, fellow MPs, take your seats in the hall, we're missing every vote. So once again, I'm putting the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (6161), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Every vote matters, please vote. 6161 - inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:33:55]] For 221 No votes. 221, no decision taken. And the last in this chapter is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly (number 5316). Entry into session order, please vote. [[11:34:24]] For 209 The decision is not taken. All right, colleagues. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. Colleagues, we have the first block, unfortunately as always, it's stalled. This is a block of finance and banking. We're moving to the financial and banking cluster. And the first is the daily draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the transfer of funds (number 5361). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please support our committee, their long professional work to prepare this day. [[11:35:17]] For-188. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report by Demczek Ruslan Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, today the first half of the session is due to consider financial sector bills for the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Your support is very important, as today is actually going to be the summation of the annual work of our committee. And so, your view is proposed for the first draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transfer of funds under number 5361, submitted by most of the members of our committee. In Ukraine today, it is not possible to make official payments under widely accepted world payment systems, such as PayPal and others. Instead, the gray market flourishes, including a large number of active operators registered in the aggressor country. The bill is intended to regulate the payment system market. A single register of payment infrastructure will be created, including the impossibility of fraud and the creation of financial pyramids. The project is designed to amend the country's Payment Systems and Transfer Laws in Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, financial services and government regulation of financial services markets. With a view to improving the principles of payment systems and accounting systems in Ukraine, streamlining the activities of nonbank financial institutions in the market for payment services, empowering banks and nonbank financial institutions to issue electronic money, improving the order of implementation, guaranteeing payment systems, and bringing national criminal legislation to the requirements of European law by establishing the responsibility of transfer entities. Define the term "payment system" in accordance with Directive 2007/64. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking supports the bill. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports, as a whole, the findings of the National Bank. In his letter, the National Bank supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u87	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u88	In view of the above, I propose to support the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the transfer of funds (number 5361) as a basis. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the further development of the payment system market and the transfer of funds in Ukraine, to the expansion of the entity’s composition in this financial services market segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u89	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of the Fishing Committee, Sergey Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today we are rapidly developing in the direction of the IT sector, including payment systems. The task of the State is not only to be in the trend of these events but to bring the field to European requirements and to protect citizens from harming criminals at these costs. It's important for us to organize the activities of both banks and non-bank institutions, to determine their right to issue electronic money. It is unacceptable that criminals steal money but are not criminally responsible for such crimes. This responsibility is foreseen in all developed countries of Europe for at least 1 year. For example, in Spain up to 8 years old, in Poland up to 25. At the end of February, our committee reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council vote it as a basis. But given the social significance, after the first reading, we suggest that a working group be made up of national MPs, representatives of the National Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office, and experts in this market. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u91	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u93	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, our faction will surely support this progressive bill, which must have been passed many years ago. This bill, in particular with regard to the introduction of electronic funds, makes it possible to use modern digital technologies. This bill is the way to modern markets for Ukraine. Electronics in today’s world have long been a separate means of electronic accounting. However, in support of this bill in the first reading, the "Unification Self-Help" faction draws your attention to the essential observations that should be removed in preparation for the second reading, namely, the formulation of a superfluous article 200 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The minimum statutory capital of e - mail issuers must be installed. In accordance with the EU Directive, this minimum statutory requirement should contain at least 350,000 euros. And last but not least, making it impossible to limit competition. Yes, the proposed bill reduces the minimum required number of payment systems from three to two, one of which is a multi-issue payment system, the paying organization of which is the resident of Ukraine. So we are convinced that these remarks should be removed in preparation for the second reading, and we ask the session room to support this certainly important bill for the economy of Ukraine in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block, Sverk Grigory Aronovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u95	Please give the floor to the People's Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports the bill. It enables residents of Ukraine to pay for goods, jobs, electronic money, residents, and nonresidents, as well as by electronic money, to pay taxes, congregations, other compulsory payments, and to make charitable voluntary contributions. It will also provide an opportunity to organize the activities of non-bank financial institutions in the market for payment services. And to the National Bank of Ukraine, determine the requirements for non-bank financial institutions to obtain such a licence and grant the right to non-bank financial institutions that have a transfer license without opening accounts to issue electronic money and to have agents, they will open an account at the National Bank. This is the first time that non-financial institutions are allowed directly to open such a corrugate at the National Bank, where real security funds will be set up for the entire amount of electronic money released, to prevent any fraud. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports this bill, and we hope that our Parliament will continue the processes of Ukraine's exit and opening up new markets for Ukraine such as the electronic money market and remittances that are now widely distributed around the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u97	Alexander Kugel is from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u98	I want to turn to the voters. We're sorry, Fatherland faction, that we're taking part in the consideration of such bills, not the ones you're expecting today. Unfortunately, we are today considering bills that touch not more than 5 percent of the population. But essentially, what I want to say is that, as early as 2011, the "Fatherland" faction, Sergei Teryohin, was proposing a bill that addressed the issues that were needed to replace cash payments with cash-free payments and to conduct the development of electronic commerce. Regrettably, while the opposition presented him, he was not accepted. Bill 5361 not only does not cover legal gaps in the regulation of the market for declarations. e-money, but it's actually destroying Ukraine's state monopoly on national currency emissions, creating numerous grounds for possible financial fraud in the absence of monetary control, contrary to the Constitution of the 99th article, the National Bank Act. The set of project standards is also contrary to the basic directives of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe in 2012 and 2046. In addition, article 1.13 of the draft law defines electronic money as an estimate of value. But as a measure of what, what object, or service? Stored on an electronic device. But on what? Released in exchange for funds. But what are the costs — national, foreign? They are accepted as a means of payment to others. Question: "What residents, non-residents? To whom and on what grounds does such a financial obligation arise? There are many questions. We pay attention to the violation of the sovereignty of the National Bank. Moreover, questions about service providers seem to be the most obnoxious.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u99	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u100	The transfer of funds to so-called commercial agents is unacceptable. I'm dashing. The most unpleasant thing is that the State Department, which is the accounting office, about the Cabinet of Ministers, makes it possible to open accounts to individuals and issue bonds. This law needs to be abolished as economically and legally fragile and openly corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u101	Moses, the Radical Party. Colleagues, this is a closing statement. There'll be another performance, okay. But I'm still asking you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u102	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction will support this bill as a basis, because it needs to be further developed, as my colleague, head of the relevant committee, Sergey Rybalka, pointed out. At the same time, I'd like to point out that regulation of relays is all very good, but the main thing is that people have something to tell. Because the bill, which cannot be ignored by the previous speaker, applies to a maximum of 5 percent of the population of Ukraine. Desperate people, destitute people, not interested in tradition, they are interested in other things. I'd like to bring your situation back to what's going on in Poltavian. Now, right now, in these moments, the city of Kyiv from the village of Lazreka Orsgitsky district is being walked by peasants. Why? Because they're being poisoned, they're being poisoned, they're being poisoned, they're being built in the middle of the village by a poison camp of the Kernell Group, which belongs to the oligarch, Andrew Verevsky, and which poisons the peasant. Bees have died out in the village, people are sick, sick, and animals die. I'm addressing the head of the Poltava District Administration Valeri Golovk, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President: stop, help the villagers, stop the saviour, stop the corrupt officials who help the barricades poison the Ukrainian peasants, then the villagers will have something to tell them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u103	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Please take up jobs, let's move on to the decision-making process. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on regulation. Oh, one more minute, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute, I'm sorry, I didn't notice. And for one thing, the deputies will be able to enter the hall. Please enter the hall for one minute, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u104	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The "will of the people" group will vote in the first reading for the bill and we will make an amendment to the second reading, which is now absolutely necessary, in terms of the occupied territories. These territories are still moving away from us, and it's going to take money not to be counted by cards, and there they were getting in the machines in rubles, but to bring in the Ukrainian bracelet, so that the Ukrainian bracelet would still go to occupied areas, and the Ukrainian people wouldn't forget what Ukraine is and what the Ukrainian currency is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u105	Thank you. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transfer of funds (number 5361) as a basis. At the suggestion of the committee only on the basis. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:50:27]] For 209 I'll be right back, colleagues. If there are no votes, we'll send the bill again. Please come into the hall, everyone, concentrate. Please take up your jobs. And I propose to return to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transfer of funds (number 5361). Please vote, please support the return. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote. [[11:51:32]] For 215 No votes. Is there any point in putting it again? All right, fellows, I'll put it up again, but I'm asking the authors, and the committee to invite the deputies out of the room, they're coming out of my sight. So, colleagues, I'm once again proposing that we go back to the basis of draft Law 5361. Please vote, please support return 5361. Please vote. [[11:52:24]] For 213 The number doesn't change. Colleagues, I'll make the next offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will put, colleagues, the next proposal, which is under the Rules, for the re-reading of the committee. 5361 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of remittances to return to the committee for work, colleagues. I'm asking you to back me up. It's a compromise position, I think it's going to be supported by everyone. So 5361 return to the committee for further work. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm going to put 5361 back on the committee for work. Please vote, please support. Vote, Your Honor, to the Committee for Refrigeration, 5361. Vote! [[11:53:41]] For 226 Decision taken. The next draft law is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to clarify their separate provisions on prevention and countering legalization. ( 4960 and 4960d) Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:54:22]] For-198 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u106	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 4960 has been completed by the committee and has been handed over to include its provisions in the amended Bill 4960d. Therefore, your view is proposed by the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to clarify their separate provisions on prevention and countering the legalization of money-laundering (registration number 4960-d). The draft law proposes to simplify the procedure for mandatory financial monitoring and thus improve the quality of reporting on the basis of the criteria used by the State Financial Monitoring Service in its work. These proposals are based on IMF recommendations presented in the road map for the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and in agreement with the IMF. In the proposals made by the IMF, Ukraine is obliged to leave only two criteria for banks under mandatory financial monitoring. The proposed changes correspond to the approved government strategy, which provides for a reduction in the number of mandatory financial monitoring signs with a view to submitting information to Holdingfinmonitoring automatically. These changes are aimed at moving from quantitative analysis to qualitative, focusing on underlying transactions by reducing the number of transactions provided by mandatory financial monitoring and improving the quality of reporting on internal financial monitoring criteria. In preparing for the first reading, our committee took into account comments made by other committees and factions. The bill has been completed in part, it excludes the definition of "professional judgement" that was conflicting. This is consistent with the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Corruption on the definition of "neighbourly persons". Taking into account the work done, I would like to ask the group of authors to support the consensus that has been worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u107	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u108	Please support the consensus version of the bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to clarify their separate provisions on prevention and countering the legalization of (washing) income (registration number 4960-d) on a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u109	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Financial Policy, Mr. Sergey Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on clarifying their separate provisions on prevention and countering the legalization of (washing) income. What is the point in this bill? This bill is aimed at bringing existing legislation to international FA standards. In this bill we propose to reduce the total number of documents for legal and natural persons from 17 to 7 for banking institutions from 14 to 4. And most of all, my dear fellows, we propose to increase the automatic tracking plan from 150 to 250 thousand, which is quite obvious in the country where the triennial devaluation of the bracelet took place. Of course, there were many suggestions and questions in this bill, two of which were very strong: the notion of professional judgement, which we removed from this bill, as well as the correspondingity of this bill on the Prevention and Anti-Corruption Act. At its meeting, our committee considered this bill -- and recommends that the Supreme Council vote it on the basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please, Rosenblatt from the Peter Dust Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u112	Please give it to Ruslan Demchak. Demchak, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports the bill. And we want to point out and turn to other factions, especially the Self-Help faction, because they had comments on the fact that out of 17 points, there were only 7 points left for financial monitoring. But the points that were excluded are absorbed in all these points. And for example, what was observed, for example, by the monitoring of offshore jurisdictions, are covered by the requirements of monitoring all external economic operations, not excluding those positions. What I'm saying about monitoring non-profit organizations is that if someone has an observation on account of this, that, in fact, holding supervision is being destroyed by information, it's going to be information, including on charities in large numbers and including on religious organizations, and it's millions of files that are now being sent to the State Financial Monitoring Service. And they ask themselves: please concentrate this bill on the funding requirements at those points that really need financial monitoring that will come to us automatically, and their work will be much more effective. Today, this service has many powers, including stopping by the month the consideration of one or more contracts, including the blocking of accounts, and this is a very effective method, but because of a great deal of unnecessary information, they are unable to do such work effectively. So once again, I stress that the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports this bill and we hope that our Parliament will also support such innovations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u114	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u115	which will focus the work on high-quality indicators as opposed to the quantitative indicators that are now in the old bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction really supports the concept of such a bill. But in the process of preparing for the bill, really, there are a lot of signs that don't come under the supervision. One such sign, as a colleague has just said, is the sign that funds are being recalculated or received by nonprofit organizations. But in addition to charities, apart from religious organizations that truly have a large number of payments made by financiers, it is not necessary to forget that nonprofit organizations include political parties. Have we eliminated corruption? Have we already eliminated in the country the oligartic charge of political parties, that we are taking them out of financial monitoring? So the Self-Help faction, in support of this law, will be willing to vote for it if we now leave the 11th sign of funding: counting and receiving non-profit funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u118	Thank you. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, Radical Party. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in two minutes. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction will support the bill. But at the same time, I want to point out that we can do as much as we can to improve the monitoring, but we can say with confidence that it is currently missing completely and completely. Because the third year is the war with the Russian aggressor, and at the same time the third year in the country under the Austrian umbrella of the company AMIK is run by the Russian company Lukoil. It doesn't work easy, it hides taxes. For example, last year it showed a negative income, a loss of 52 million. Would anyone in this room, or would any of the Ukrainians, believe that a network of auto-fuelling stations can work in damage? No, of course not, but it works. I sincerely thank my colleague Andrew Levus, the National Security and Defence Committee, who have appealed to the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Fiscal Service, for the activities of the Russian "Lukoil" under the umbrella of "AMIK". But there may still be a roof in this room that helps to avoid, namely Sergey Ljowochkin, who controls the management of this company, a Russian company that makes money during the war. And so when we talk about the blockade with occupied territories, we also have to talk about the inadmissibility of Russian business in Ukraine, which earns money and buys bullets that kill Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u120	Please, Igor Lucenko, one minute. Mishchenka, one minute. And two minutes to vote, colleagues. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction won't support the bill. And, frankly, the "Paternity" faction is shocked by what's being proposed. I had to read twice this sensation that offshore operations were being released from financial monitoring! Guys, what's this all about? Is that an offshoring? These are specific bills that propose to offshore our economy, to release any offshore operation from control by the relevant authorities! So it turns out that these are the corrupt assets that are now making money on trade in occupied areas, on the waste of assets destroyed by the Gontar Banks, on gas. It's all coming out, it's going to go off-shore right now. And no electronic declarations can help save, capture, all this corruption revenue. We are definitely not prepared to support this approach. In addition, we want to note that those who offer to index the amounts for monitoring have chosen a completely wrong technical approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u122	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u123	Because you're optimally attached to some "floating" indicator, not just to fix it every time. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will set up a discussion on which coefficient to raise these figures. So it makes sense to attach some minimum wage or minimum subsistence minimum or other floating rate. It's technically wrong just basically the law. That's why the Fatherland faction won't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u124	Sergei Mishchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u125	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I just want everyone's attention to the rule of law that's being proposed to change. Consider article 15, “Compulsory financial monitoring. ” What now? I'll be right there. mandatory monitoring of those operations by listing the Cabinet of Ministers into countries that are offshore. What is proposed? We will replace this list with another list that applies to countries that do not or do not properly implement the recommendations of international organizations for the laundering or legalization of criminal income. So two lists are different. Because an offshore list is one list. Another list is another list. And they don't intersect. And that's why, of course, I know, and everyone knows that the authorities are comfortable, and why the opposition is for that, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the committee agrees with this proposal, which sounded like "self-help." Is this supposed to be a wire? Please, 30 seconds, Ruslan Evgenyovich, and we vote, colleagues. Please come into the hall, take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I'm going to use the transcript to sound a correction that's being made by the Self-Help faction for support. And I want to make a note of that mess that was on the offshore. Paragraph three will take into account all external economic operations, all offshore operations, and not offshore operations, including offshore operations. It's just a definition of what it was. So you don't have to worry. And now under the stenogram. Article 15 “Financial transactions subject to mandatory financial monitoring” is supplemented by “Recalculation or receiving of funds by a non-profit organization”. In order to include all non-profit organizations, including the political parties for financial monitoring, today. I'd like to support you in this line of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u128	Thank you. So let's go to the vote, colleagues. And I'm voting on the committee's proposal, the committee's made a proposal for 4960-d to take as a basis. And I'm going to put this proposal to the committee for a vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on clarifying their separate provisions on prevention and countering the legalization of income (4960-d) as a basis. Based on the amendment made by Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich under the transcript. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:10:31]] For-187 Colleagues, I'll put the next one in. First-reading committee. Will this be a supportive offer? I'm voting a motion to refer to the committee for a re-read. Please support me, please vote 4960-d on the committee for the re-first reading. Please support us not to lose the bill for the first time read again. [[12:11:09]] For 204 And the last suggestion is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, so that we don't lose the bill, I'm asking you all to support this proposal, and I think it's completely compromised. So to return to the committee, to return the draft Law 4960-from the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:11:50]] For 204 The decision is not taken. So the bill of Law 4960 and 4960 were rejected. Colleagues, now that they have continued for 15 minutes, have asked for the floor of the Health Committee, together with the public organization Olga Bogomolec, who is now conducting the event and action in Parliament. I don't think anyone will mind if I give Mrs. Ollie time to make a statement so that each of the deputies can take part in the action being taken. One minute. Please, Mrs. Ola, one minute. After that, a break will be announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, today Ukraine has joined up with the World Glaucoma Day. In the world today, more than 400 million blind people who do not see light are practically a whole country like ours. In Ukraine, the blind, the blind, the almost 40,000, and the glaucoma are among the reasons for blindness. And today, in the Ukrainian Parliament and in the Ukrainian society, we're drawing attention and I'm inviting you all to the second floor here where. on the desks where each of you, your assistants, Secretariat staff can measure your intraocular pressure to prevent glaucoma and to find out what can lead to this disease, which is absolutely insidious, which has an unsympathetic run and which leads to blindness. Thus, 80 percent of blindness can be prevented. So I urge all Ukrainian citizens to take care of their health, to remember what glaucoma is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u130	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u131	Remember the first signs of glaucoma, and for once in your life, measure your intraocular pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ola. And I'm calling it a half-hour break at 12:45. At 12:45, everyone please come to the hall for further consideration of matters of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, time has run out for a break. I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. I'm reminding you that we're looking at a block of finance and banking. Sergei, come to me, please. Please have the secretariat invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (to disclose information in the stock market and improve the order of issuance of securities and expand the possibilities for capital participation). Colleagues, the committee has come out of the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. We still have a very large number of important bills ahead of us. Among them is a bill on local self-government 5520, among which is the distribution of deputies by committee. And I, colleagues, would ask you, as well as the committee, to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. If we go into an hourly perspective, we can simply fail to get past the issues of order of the day, the overwhelming ones that are important to all factions. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, now I'm going to make the first proposal for a reduced procedure and I'm going to expect support in the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Now we're going to move on to 5592, but I'm going to propose a committee proposal -- consideration of a reduced procedure. And, colleagues, I'm really asking for your support, because there are many important bills ahead that we should consider. And I ask now to vote on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (5592) in short. Please vote and support the reduced procedure. Vote, colleagues, please. [[12:54:15]] For 105 Colleagues, I'll put it again, if there are no votes, we'll move on to the full procedure. So please go into the hall and take jobs, and I want to emphasize once again that we may not be able to get to the next important issues, to the next important block. And so I'm asking you to support the consideration of draft Law 5592 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. [[12:55:06]] For 116 The decision is not made. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u134	Good afternoon, dear fellows! National MP Rizanenko, head of the Securities and Stock Market Subcommittee of the Committee of Finance and Banking. Today, your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for disclosure of information in the stock market and improvement of the order of issuance of securities and expansion of possibilities for inclusion of capital) (registration number 5592 from 23.12.2016): The author's team of this bill includes members of three factions and one group: the BPP, the People's Front, the Self-Help, the will of the people. Ukraine's draft law amending certain legislative acts (for disclosure of information in the stock market) provides for major changes to the Civil Code, the Master Code, Ukraine's securities and stock market laws, the Shareholder Society Act, the National Securities Market Regulation in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Depository System, the Banks and Banking Act, and the introduction of derivative changes to the other 22 laws. In particular, the bill states: first, to disclose information in the stock market, to improve disclosure requirements in the stock market and to introduce a differentiated approach on the extent and periodicity of disclosure to issuers of information in the stock market. Expanding the list of possible ways to disclose information in the stock market, including through the services of authorized persons who have the right to conduct information services in the stock market, and eliminating the obligation of publications in printed publications. Obligation to prepare issuers as part of the annual information on the issuer of the management report and the corporate management report. The introduction of duties and disclosure procedures for the change of ownership of the stock package, the extent of the legal value provided for by law and the introduction of the disclosure mechanism for issuers and other participants in the stock market. The other one. In order to improve the order of issuance of securities, to change the order of issuance of securities and to improve the requirements for the formulation of prospectuses at the public offering of securities and to allow them to be admitted to trading in a regulated stock market, as well as to define exceptions where the formulation of a prospectus is not required. Placing requirements to the language and content of the information to be contained in the prospectus in accordance with European Union legislation. Third. In order to expand the possibilities for capital participation, a comprehensive arrangement for the implementation of the mechanism for the decision by the general boards of shareholders not to use the majority right of shareholders to acquire additional emissions. Improving the functioning of public shareholders’ bodies, such as the Supervisory Board and its committees on appointments, rewards, audit in accordance with world standards and acts of the European Union. The adoption of the law will improve the issuance of securities and disclosure systems in the stock market, taking into account the requirements of EU legislation with a view to enhancing the protection of the rights of investors and other stakeholders in the stock market. Ensure transparency of the ownership structure of public shareholders and increase investor awareness of issuer activities. Increase investment in Ukraine's economy, particularly by increasing the confidence of domestic and foreign investors in Ukrainian issuers as a result of the introduction of civilized European rules on disclosure of information in the stock market and corporate governance, as well as the proper level of control over compliance by the state. Simplify the private placement of securities and the change in the type of shareholders. Provide conditions for an alternative stock trading venue called the multilateral trading system (BTS). The main scientific and expert management is proposing that the first reading of the project be based on the next revision to the second reading. The National Securities and Stock Market Commission supports the adoption of the law as a basis for the first reading and the subsequent revision to the second reading. The National Bank of Ukraine conceptually supports the adoption of the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking adopted a decision on 7 February 2017 to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis. Following the adoption by Parliament of the bill, a working group will be set up on the committee's first reading, which will further develop the draft for the second reading. Please support the committee's position and vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u135	Thank you, stay in the rostrum. Please, question the reporter, please record the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, it'll be a question to you. Please, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u136	Dear reporter! Now, I have a question for you, you're proposing to introduce the concept of "alien emitter." Who doesn't understand, personally, I used to run this subcommittee on valuable papers, it's done exclusively under Russian companies that will then enter our market, and they say they'll be fighting not only in Donbassa, but also against our stock market. So I'm going to all the conscious citizens here in this room who are, and the MPs, so that we don't support this law aimed at the development of the aggressor. So it's very interesting where, in general, this alien issue came from in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u137	Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u138	I'd like to inform Mr. Yatzenk that we have a foreign stock purchase regime that requires actual licensing, and accordingly no one will be able to obtain a national bank license to purchase shares from a foreign company. So your warnings are, let's say, too conservative, and that's not what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u139	Thank you. You can sit down. And I'd like to invite a co-conspirator. And you were also from the committee? Mr. Paul, you were also from the committee, weren't you? It was both as an author and as a representative of the committee. That's why we're moving on to the discussion. People's deputies, please prepare. The factions are about to come from the factions. Please record the performances from the MP factions. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jehora Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u140	Madam Chairman, I'm warning you right now, I'm not going to talk about the subject of the bill. The thing is, the guys that the police released after last night's arrest in Bloody Torca, they're again being held by the police on the outskirts of the Donetsk district. Since they do not have mobile phones, money, and other personal things, a huge request is now made from Parliament to the minister of internal affairs demanding that the tactics of the Scottish treatment of the people who have protected this state cease. People need to be taken to lawyers and hospitals because some of them are beaten up, not kept in checkpoints.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u141	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of People's Deputies Anton Yatzenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u142	Honorable Chairman and Honourable People’s Deputies! Well, under this law, I don't think it only introduces the concept of "foreign issuer" to bring Russian companies into the Ukrainian market, for example, to come in and then actually eat, like they ate the Ukrainian banking system almost, and they're offered, for example, things that will contribute to registration. So it's suggested that the general boards of the shareholders' society should be allowed to decide not to use the majority of shareholders' right to acquire additional emissions in the process, and that is to say scientific expertise, in other words, this will lead to re-entry. So I'm talking to all the factions, so let's not support this bill, which doesn't actually develop the stock market, but will actually destroy the Ukrainian economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u143	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u144	Almost according to Shevchenk: who prevents, who blocks, who extorts, who bluffs. Dear colleagues, look at yourself, look at this hall. Nobody in this country needs the financial and banking sphere, nobody cares, the hall's half empty. But the question is not only in the financial banking sphere, but the question is that its inaction, its stupidity and what is currently going on is essentially the self-destruction of the Ukrainian state. In fact, we are now demonstrating to the Ukrainian community the inability to respond to the challenges, the challenges in the warring country, the challenges that need to be addressed in this very room. Therefore, the decision is passed on, their adoption is made, on the street, on the square, on railways, and so forth. The blame for everything that's going on right here in the Ukrainian Parliament, in the Ukrainian government, in the Bank. Because the self-destruction of a state, which has unfortunately already been launched, can only be stopped at the site of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Remember, in 2004, in 2014 this very hall stopped the destruction of the state, and that's where the historic decisions were made to save the Ukrainian state from destruction. Now it's not just about the banking and financial sphere that we're looking at, and none of it's considered, it's spitting at the Ukrainian state itself, it's spitting at those that the Ukrainian people have delegated to solve the biggest challenges that our nation and state have faced. Surrender, there will be distress! People see everything, and people don't forgive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u145	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, at a wave of pessimism I would like to say a little more optimistic things. I'm sure there's a core of MPs who want to change the country that's doing this. Maybe there aren't many of us. I'd like to join everyone today in creating a new market. The capital market -- it can be the size of the banking market. Why doesn't it work? Ritorical as a question. Because we don't have investor rights. Those investors who enter, as well as the gas market, this applies to other life-forms, Ukraine has not now introduced European standards of work in the securities market. And that's why we can talk about raiding? The law is designed to create a transparent stock market, to introduce fair rules in the field of securities. In particular, there are new requirements for publishing information about changing stockholders. We're talking about discovery, and we did it to the bank owners. We're talking about the discovery of the owners of the TV channels. Why? In order for the media to be transparent. And this is the main task of this bill right now is to make the stock market transparent. This law introduces the standards of MiFID 2 to make you understand that this directive is the foundation of the financial markets of the European Union. It is based on a single market for institutional services, which greatly enhances the competitiveness of the European and European markets. And that's when we can do it. Here comes the investors, here comes the capital, we run the capital market. So harmonising our legislation with similar standards is not only a real reform of the stock market, but also an opportunity to join the European Union market and invest in foreign securities. So whatever the pressing problem is, I think we need to, you know, spin on the stick another plate of market development that we have underdeveloped, that gives Ukraine investment, raise the economy, be successful, and this success, it will conquer the enemy. So I'm very much asking for consensus, to find votes in Parliament, and to support this law on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u147	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u148	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'd like to speak to the presiding officer. At this moment, we are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (to disclose information on the stock market and improve the order of issuance of securities and expand the possibilities for capital participation). Without a doubt, the bill deserves attention and should be supported. But let's see what's going on in the hall right now. So not enough that the coalition today can't even raise 150 votes to consider the bill by a reduced procedure, so for this moment in four speakers just two people spoke essentially about the bill, two others talking about the blockade, they talk about Habakkuk, they talk about everything else. I'm addressing the presiding officer with the next proposal. On more than one occasion, in that room, the chairman interrupted the openings of the Opposition Block and ruled out the microphone for what was not said on the subject. Then I have an offer for you. If you are practicing the principle of parliamentary justice, please: Either in a row, including your one - party, turn off the microphone for what they are saying on the subject; or then let us make a completely different decision. We already have not only a Friday weekend, but not just a Wednesday weekend for the MPs, but today a Tuesday after 12 o'clock the MP Corps is unable to give professional consideration to these bills. Once again, if we're in favour of developing a state, if the coalition is so patriotic, give at least 150 votes in favour of a reduced procedure, then those three minutes can be used to discuss the issue. And so you talk about everything you want, and once again, you love people's eyes, and then you talk about the blockade, and you run and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your presentation was not really about the subject or the draft law that was being discussed. But thank you for paying attention. The factions have ended. We're moving on to the speeches from the people's deputies. People's deputies please record. Excuse me. There's still talk from factions. Please, Alexander Kugel, National Deputy of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u150	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. With regard to the bill to amend certain legislation on disclosure of information in the stock market. Well, first of all, in our view, very large unlimited powers are passed on to the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. They determine the order, the availability, where there are no criteria. What I'm going to do is I'm going to give you some of the powers that they have for the approval of legal acts, and this is the order of the issue, the volume, the repayment, the cancellation, the registration of the issuance of convertible bonds of enterprises in respect of the multilateral trading system. I hope the MPs read, well, not all of them. I'm showing you the scope of this bill. But a new system is in place. It's kind of like a stock market analog that's offered the conditions for setting up, operating these multilateral trading systems, getting licenses for doing business with the organization of trade, and a lot of other things. On the supply of information services in the stock market. And so, in order not to read a very large number of comments to this project, I will tell you the decision of the Fatherland faction -- not to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u151	Thank you. So, colleagues, the factions are finished. Colleagues, I have a request. Now we have a section of the House of Deputies. Let's get as close as possible to him as possible, colleagues. I'm asking you very much so that we can get through it in a very concise way. So that we can get to the bottom of those questions. And I want to point out that the situation for now is actually, if I'm not mistaken, there's a decision on the deputies, the distribution on the committees. As soon as the decision of the Regulatory Committee is made, we will be able to move on to this issue. Colleagues, so I'm asking you, as much as possible right now, to get through the section of speeches by the national MPs. I'm asking you to sign up for the performances in the section "Performances from the People's Deputies." Please. Lavrick is from Self-Help. Please, Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u152	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Indeed, the law requires further elaboration. And those remarks that were made by colleagues from other factions can also be processed for second reading. And the comments that the Self-Help faction has on this bill will also be included. But I'd like to talk about something else right now. We're talking today about the development of the capital market. We're talking about the development of the stock market today. And curiosity, there's no interest in the field at all. It is not because Ukraine is now at war with the invader, leading a war with the Russian Federation. And I want to ask our fellow MPs whether this law regulates the existence of a stock market in an uncontrollable Ukraine territory. No, it's probably not working out. So, Mr. Chairman, this situation in the hall will be very long, until we return to the basic law of the Occupied Territories Act. And only then can all the other bills in this room be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u153	Wife of Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u154	Please give the floor to Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u155	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill has several positives, several positive innovative ideas, but very often there is a lot of work in this room, and there is a lot of underwork in it, or there's a lot of things that are completely wrong. For example, the draft replaces the notion of “peave securities” (article 195 of the Civil Code of Ukraine), the fact that these papers testify to participation in statutory capital, to the fact that they provide the owner of such securities or assets in the capital of the issuer, contradicts the general definition of securities in article 194 of the Code, according to which a document of established form with the relevant props, which, inter alia, testifies to monetary or property rights. The bill also proposes granting the right to issue securities not only on the basis of the prospectus but on the basis of decisions on the issue of securities. However, unlike the notion of "proposal of the issue", which envisions its publication, the decision on the issue is a document available only to the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. In addition, it is given the right to establish the order for the issuance of securities to be combined with the public offering of such securities in the process of their issuance. And the project's non-public distribution of emission papers to public shareholders can have a negative impact both on the involvement of new investors in equity companies and on the protection of their rights. Similarly, the bill proposes to complement, add a new term for the "multilateral trading system", which is understood, inter alia, as part of, the market segment of financial instruments managed by the operator of the multilateral trading system. However, the actual definitions and rules of conduct of such a multilateral trading system are not prescribed in the bill, leaving a huge legal gap. The bill also has a reporting period for the submission of interim information on the issuer, according to the bill, to be determined directly. Excuse me, i.e. the bill suggests that the reporting period for compiling intermediate information on the issuer be determined by the National Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, but this is an unjustified increase in their powers, and such things should be determined not by the National Commission, but directly by law. And the last thing I'd like to pay attention to. In the amendments to article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets, it is proposed that the prospectus of foreign issuer securities be drawn up either in English or in national language. This is absolutely wrong, since it must be safe in Ukraine, let it be English, but there must be, as a minimum, an official translation in Ukrainian national language. That's perfectly logical, so there's the whole point of a public mission so that all Ukrainians can read what's going on. So in the first reading, in principle, this bill can be supported, but without correcting these mistakes to the second reading and to the open work, in the second reading, it is impossible to vote for it. So in the first reading, we vote, but we make amendments to the second reading, and we demand that they be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u156	Dovbenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, in today's economy, it is very important to engage additional financial resources in order to make it work. And you have to say that the banking system of Ukraine in the situation it's in today, it's not able to produce that important function that's so that we can invest the funds for lending businesses and reviving the economy. That is why we, the co-authors of this bill, have proposed to improve legislation so that resources can be involved through the issue of securities, and this could be an opportunity for economic recovery. There was a question in our session room that there are risks of Russian issuers entering this stock market. I want to remind you that the essence of the whole bill and practically all the paragraphs and articles are aimed at allowing us to emphasize the transparency of this part of the stock market. And I think that the whole mechanism that's written down here that makes it possible to clearly track this risk is going to be realized or not. One more. It was noted that the National Commission of Securities in the Stock Market was lagging behind a great deal of authority. My colleagues, what is the concept of "very much"? Of course, until the second reading, we can figure out what's very important and what is a lot. It is the procedure of two readings so that we can write more clearly the position and what is written here in the mechanisms of this bill. So I think this bill is fairly technological, rather unforgivable, voluminous. I want us to honor the work of all those specialists, experts, experts who have joined in preparing this document. He, the document, allows us to become a qualitatively new level for us to work not only with external investors, but also with internal investors more transparently, more clearly and allow us to engage the resource that is now under mattresses or pillows, which is a very large sum. So I ask everyone to support this bill, to vote on the basis that we can work on it on the committee and prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Demczak Ruslan Evgenyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we always want reforms. We have a new progressive team of the Securities and Stock Market Commission. Today we have a head, a board member sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, and these are the people who live in this market, who, you could say, altruists, they understand it. And today there were a lot of populist slogans here that are totally out of line with the stock market. And I would like us to give them the opportunity to reform this market so that the capital can come here. I've already said today that it's very important for an investor to understand that what he's buying, it's valuable that he can sell it at any moment. Thus, this law allows the Commission on Securities to regulate the volume of information provided by issuers, the periodicity of the information, the involvement of international information agencies such as Reuters, Bloomberg to make this information available in order for the stock market in Ukraine to live by European, world rules. I see no reason not to support this bill, not to be able to reform this market. As to the increase in commission authority, we always shout that there should be a strong state, there should be order in the state. So who should do them? If there is this specialized market, there is a commission where authorized representatives are appointed there, it is they who have to have these powers to regulate and regulate them under the principles of the European Union. And they're offering us this today to support them in this. Because those powers that they were, they're getting older and they're, you know, archaic about the development of the stock market. And I'd like to make a note because there are, there's something about the Russians talking. On the contrary, the discovery of the end-beneficiaries of all the owners of open stock companies will provide an opportunity to see who the ultimate owner is, perhaps there are Russians. So I wouldn't want us to speculate here and, you know, such notoriously impenetrable slogans here are thrown out to block such a proper and quality bill. So it's balanced, let's give the Commission on Securities a chance to reform the market. Let's support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u160	Thank you. And Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! In this bill, it's already clearly written by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which the name doesn't match its essence, and it's very simple, once again, to bring the Russian capital here to our stock market and borrow it in fact. So I'm talking to my self-help colleagues, well you can't do that on the one hand, sorry, you can do that, but you can block the RD/LO, and on the other hand, vote for this bill, well, it's actually the same fight that goes with Ukraine only through financial instruments like that. So everyone who thinks I'm sorry, but the normal person who lives in Ukraine, not in the Russian Federation, can't vote for this bill. I'm talking to everyone again, so take a good look at it, what foreign broadcasters are, and so on and so forth. Guys, you can't take him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u162	Colleagues, we've finished discussing the block from the National Deputies. Now the closing word will be the committee head and let's move on to the decision so I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the hall and ask all the factions' heads to invite the deputies into the hall. And the chairman of the Committee on Financial Affairs, Fishco Sergius, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! I'm very sorry that today, we're still not going to be able to look at the next issue and drafts of the financial banking sector. We also propose changes to the Constitution regarding the National Bank, and the National Bank Act to increase transparency, confidence in the banking system. Unfortunately, as I can see, many colleagues today are not interested in the financial and banking sector. Tell me, please, how will we restore confidence in the banking system, how will we launch real lending to the real economy when today's national MPs are unfortunately not interested in these issues. The question of a credit-expert agency that we voted on in two readings today is in an elevated state. The questions of other bills are not being considered today either. Last week we sent, as I say, a bill on pawnshops and pawnshops. The 16 billion dollar market is unfortunately not regulated at the legislative level today. And today, Grandma, who's the last of her teeth, I'm sorry, she's taking it to the pawnshop, she's not known, she's going to see this five-square-meter pawnshop that's standing somewhere in the transition, or she's not going to see it, because the local authorities can take it at night. Two more bills that we haven't been able to vote on today are about funding. Today, all the people who come under an automatic $150,000 fundraiser have proposed 250, and we haven't been able to vote, and we're going to stay in that state. The e-money bill, I believe, is the future that we have not been able to vote on today and this important bill, bring it to the European state and standards, and not vote for the responsibility, the criminal responsibility of those criminals who can take electronic money from our citizens. So we consulted our committee, we decided after this bill to withdraw other bills so that we would have the opportunity to discuss professionally and so that we would have real support in Parliament. And I would very much like to have this kind of professional discussion that we have every week on our profile committee, the same kind of professional discussion here in this session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u164	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I ask all the MPs to come into the hall and take up jobs, so let's move on to making a decision. Please invite the deputies into the hall, please, everyone, to take up their jobs. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation (on disclosure of information in the stock market and on improving the order of issuance of securities and expanding the possibilities for capital participation) (number 5592). The committee's proposal to accept as a basis, only on the basis will we be able to count all the amendments and warnings that were before the bill between the first and the second readings. So, colleagues, please vote, please support 5592 as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. [[13:32:11]] For 215 I'll be back. Please invite the deputies to the hall, colleagues. Please invite those who are in the towers into the hall. I'm also asking the head of the committee and the author of the bill to help invite MPs into the hall. So now I'm going to put on a return, please take jobs. So, colleagues, can I bet? I'm proposing to go back to the question of adoption as the basis of Bill 5592, please support me, please vote. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote, please support the return. [[13:33:32]] For 218. Under the Rules, I can put an unlimited number of times back on the table; the Rules do not limit it; I inform those interested. Fellows, I'm going to put again, if there are no votes, I'm going to put the next proposal for rereading on the committee. So, please prepare, I'm going to put the vote back on the ground, if there are no votes, I'm going to put the next proposal of the Rules on the committee for further work. Please mobilize as much as possible, please concentrate and I'll put the motion to vote back on the basis of draft Law 5592, please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote! Please vote. [[13:34:48]] For 222 Four votes. So, colleagues, this is the last time I'm going to put, the third time, I'm going to put three times when the votes are close, but this is going to be the last time that we're going to make the next proposal, colleagues. So, everyone, please concentrate, please take your jobs, and I'll put a motion to the vote, go back to the vote on the basis of draft Law 5592. Please vote, please support the return to the vote as a basis. Colleagues standing in the aisle. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:36:02]] For 224 I'm going to put the next vote back on the committee for a second first reading. And I ask you to support the proposal to return to the committee for a second reading. Please support everyone, colleagues, this is a compromise offer for everyone, where we can work out. Please support the proposal to return to the committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support, we vote. The Committee for Re-reading [[13:36:45]] For 227 227 is "for", the decision is made. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that as soon as I have promised that the decision of the Regulatory Committee will be on the distribution of the National Deputies to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will immediately invite him to the Hall for consideration. So I'm asking everyone to concentrate now, especially on the people's deputies who have been waiting for this decision for a long time, and I'm going to make a suggestion that we put this issue in the agenda right now. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall and get ready. Well, there are documents, and there is one in the daytime. The committee head will now report, but this question is in order of the day, just standing a little bit later. Now I suggest you move it and put it in the agenda. We already have a decision on the regulatory committee. The chairman of the committee will report on all the proposals made by the national deputies. So, colleagues, please concentrate, I'm now putting to the vote the proposal that we put the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration right now. If there's enough votes, we'll get right to the point. So I would like to support the proposal that we put the human resources issue of the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please vote. [[13:38:46]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues, we can now move on to his consideration of the matter. First of all. So let's move on to this question. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Vote. [[13:39:36]] For 204 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u165	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Rules at its meetings reviewed and supported the statements made by the National Deputies, which do not form part of any committee, made relevant draft regulations for the consideration of the Supreme Council, namely: to consider the statements of the Ukrainian National Deputy Member of the parliamentary faction "Block of Petra Poroshenko" Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymirovich on the election of him as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy. Mr. Sverka Grigori Aronović, National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the Block of Petra Prashenko Dept., on the election of him as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the "Will of the People" Group of Melniczuk Sergey Petrovic for his election as a member of the Health Committee. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the Political Party's deputy faction "The People's Front" Podobraznak Vadim Ivanovich for election as a member of the Transport Committee. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the deputy faction "Block of Peter Prashenko" Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich for election as a member of the National Security and Defence Committee. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the parliamentary faction "Block of Petra Prashenko" Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich for his election as a member of the Committee for Legislative Security. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the deputy faction "Block of Peter Prashenko" Biloczerkov Dmitr Alexanderovich for election as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the deputy faction "Block of Petra Prashenko" Biozor Oksana Volodymyrina to elect her as a member of the Committee on European Integration. The National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the MP's political party "The People's Front" Meparishvili Hwich Nodarovich for election as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. The National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the political party's National Front, Jedaków Jaroslav Yuriovich, for election as a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the deputy faction "Block of Peter Prashenka" of Nemirovsky Andrija Valentinović for election as a member of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. National deputy of Ukraine, member of the political party's MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u166	Colleagues, let's get all the orders read out, let's give two more minutes for everyone to know in the hall that we're voting for. Please, two minutes, Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u167	So, a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the political party's deputy faction, "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland" by Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic about his election as a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. The National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the deputy faction "Block of Petra Prashenka" of Velikin Oleg Markovich for election as a member of the Committee on Family Affairs, Youth Policy, Sport, Tourism. The National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the political party's National Front, Danilin Vladislav Yuriovich, for election as a member of the Rules Committee, for the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the deputy faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland" Dubil Valery Alexanderovich for election as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the deputy faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland" Odarchenka Yuri Vitaliyovich for his election as a member of the Committee on Construction, Urban Building and Housing. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the MP's "Block of Peter Prashenko" of Rick's Aunt Borisovna for electing her member of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the parliamentary faction "Block of Petra Prashenko" Savrasova Maksim Vitaliyovich for his election as a member of the Committee on Legal Protection. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the "Will of the People" Group Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, member of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the political party's National Front, Benjuzhenko Fedor Volodymyrovich, for election as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Word, Information Policy. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the MP's "Block of Peter Prashenko" Buglak Jury Alexanderovich for election as a member of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the Radical Party MP Oleg Lászkové Tetjana Leonidina for election as a member of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u168	Please allow me to finish reading all the orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u169	The Committee also reviewed the statements made by Ukraine's non-fractional National Deputies and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a way of voting for the election of Ukrainian National Deputies: Konstankević Irina Miroslavovna as a member of the Committee on Science and Education, Shevchenko Viktor Leonidovich as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy, Mikitas Maxima Viktorovich as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. For the stenographer. In this connection, we propose to withdraw the following draft decrees from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration numbers 3255, 3256, 3258, 4013, 4418, 4692, 4817, 4819, 4820, 4821, 4824, 5166, 5167, 5168, 5169, 5170, 5171, 5172, 5173, 5174, 6065, 6181, 6182, 6183, 6184, 6185 and 6186. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u170	Colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Come on, two in, two in, no, please record. Please, Sverk, "Peter Dust Block" Gregory Aronovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, March 17th of this week is 18 months or one and a half years old, as I and my colleague Vladislav Sevrukov took the oath of national deputies. That same day, we wrote an application to include us in the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy. Well, from my point of view, a year and a half, well, it's too big a time to make any decision on this issue. I have a big request: let us vote in favour of this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u172	Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. He's taking it off. From the Radical Party of Chizmar Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u173	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u174	Oleg Lazko. Is anyone speaking from the Radical Party? Please, Oleg Lazko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u175	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The National Deputy of Ukraine, my esteemed colleague, Tetjan Leonidov, is delegating the Radical Party faction as Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy, not a member of this committee, because the Secretary's quota has gone to our faction. Now the secretary of this leading committee under the leadership of the great lawyer of all time and the peoples of Ruslan Knazević is the work of our one party my deputy, Andriy Lozový. We invite the committee secretary to choose Tetjana Yuzkov from the Radical Party faction. No less intelligent, no less talented, no less patriotic Andria Lozov, we suggest that we move to the Agrarian Policy Committee, where our quota now works on our quota for Vitko's carcase, which sits in this room. And only under this condition will the Radical Party faction vote. Otherwise we won't vote because you just want to limit us to the possibility of protecting farmers' interests, the interests of peasants. Today, the Agrarian Policy Committee, unfortunately, does not have a representative of the Radical Party faction. The symbol of the Radical Party is a villa, we want these people's villas to feed so that every peasant court has a cow, there are porcupines, there are geese and there are chickens. And so in Parliament, we need to have a policy to create jobs for peasants so that the village can feed the peasants. Instead of debasing the land, give farmers cheap loans, allowing them to process their areas so that peasant families and peasant children can be fed. And the Radical Party has that kind of policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u176	Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u177	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. In support of the ruling, please give the floor to the leader of the Maxim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support it. Because ultimately our deputies should not be held hostage to political games. But I want to say from the profile committee that I work on. This is the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, ATOs, and Disabled Persons. Regrettably, only five deputies are now serving on this committee. There's no one from the Self-Help faction since the Fatherland faction. But as they shed their tears on the rostrum, we have to look at it. Please, Your Honor, the factions! Maybe there's still time to finally fill out your quotas on such a necessary committee. Because there are such times that there is no quorum, and there are many issues of social protection for those involved in combat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u179	Thank you, colleagues. So all of them. No, please, from "Fatherland" Ivan Krulko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u180	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to drop the suspicion that Fatherland isn't represented on any of the committees. In fact, the "Paternity" faction, which is the smallest in this Parliament, cannot physically be represented on all committees. Because we're all less composed than the committees in Parliament. We're 20 people's deputies. Therefore, there is no need to give out what is desired for what is real. Why don't you come to work and work the big factions, please? Because thanks to you, there is very little quorum on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u181	Colleagues, now I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. I now give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. And, colleagues, I am very much asking you to settle for this vote. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, we do have a paradoxical situation that arose for the first time in 25 years of the existence of the Ukrainian Parliament, when our colleagues have no right to work in their main workplace for more than a year. And the main place of work is the committee itself. In this room are the great experts of the Rules and the factions who call on the Presidium to follow the Rules every day. Thus, the Rules state that the committee is the principal place of work. That's why I want to go to all the factions of Parliament right now to vote in favour of this decision, which is compromising. Once again, I stress that we are not voting in favour of committee leadership, but only in favour of distribution, we are not voting for the transition of deputies from committee to committee, we are voting for the distribution of those honourable colleagues who had the misfortune of going to parliament later than we are with you. And so it's very important that, you know, there's no way that we treated the cow better than the Ukrainian national deputy. Let's make it possible for the deputies to work on the committees. And we now support this position. We turn primarily to the faction that talks about the transition of deputies. Please, if there is then the will of the deputies, we will vote for the transitions. So to Self-Help, and to the Radical Party with great respect, let's turn to vote for this proposal, which is a compromise, to distribute deputies on committees. And this will make it possible for committees to have a quorum. We're not allowing the committees to work right now. There's often no quorum. Please support this initiative and this is a compromise decision of the regulatory committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u183	Colleagues, there hasn't been a rebirth group yet. Jacenka, one minute. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, indeed, we must vote on this decree. Because our colleagues have to be on committees and work under the law on the status of the MP and on the committee. But we support this decision. But I want to remind you that for two years now, Ukraine, not as a European country, but as a totalitarian country, then allocated all the portfolios to the Supreme Council committees, and the opposition didn't get any committee. There is no such thing in any European country or in the United States or in Canada that we voted today. That's why we support it now, but we insist on restoring parliamentary justice and making sure that the committees are re-elected by the end of this session, because everyone in this Parliament represents people, there are no people random here, as they say. I mean, if a person is sitting here in Parliament, it's supported by the people of Ukraine, so we have to represent the entire people of Ukraine on the committees, not part of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m0.u185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please, and please come into the hall? I call on everyone to be responsible and to separate political discussions from the duties of the national deputies. Just before the vote, look into the eyes of those people's deputies who came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work actively and effectively. They do not have the right to vote on their committees; they do not even have the opportunity to have a job to carry out their duties. They're from different factions and probably all factions have members who haven't been able to get a full-time job. That is why I have commissioned us to make decisions only on the assignments and distributions of those new colleagues who have recently come to Parliament and who today are unable to carry out their duties fully. Let's put politics aside, and now let's just do our job and support our fellow MPs and vote for this ruling that the committee has prepared. And so I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Several times this issue has failed, I hope, today and now we will be able to reach a consolidated decision in Parliament. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to elect the members of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian People's Deputies in accordance with their statements, supported by the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as reported to us by the First Deputy Committee, Pavlovic Pinzenik, and to repeal those rulings that he has listed from the Supreme Council stand under the transcript. I'd like the people's deputies to vote, if you'll excuse me. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:57:02]] For 240 240 for. Decision taken. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the committee, is requested to issue an appropriate decision as a result of the decision taken. I welcome all fellow members of the National Deputies who today have finally been able to be allocated to the relevant committees. Congratulations, fellows! Hello, Oksana! So, dear colleagues, we were able to make important decisions. Now, according to the Rules, we have a two-hour break. And I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. And I'm asking everyone to come to the session room at 4:00 to continue our work. Please, at 4:00, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Thank you.
