ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry we've been delayed for 10 minutes, we've continued our consultations. And I'm asking you to come into the hall, prepare for the registration for the evening session. As long as the MPs come in, I'm one minute Irina Heratchenko to announce the ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, let me make an announcement. In the towers of the Supreme Council on the third floor, these days there is an exhibition of the famous Levian artist, Lev Skopa, icons dedicated to the roof. And the money from these works goes to the needs of the Ukrainian army. Please see, support and attend this beautiful exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u3	Thank you. So, are your colleagues ready to register? Please take up jobs. I'm asking you to sign up for the evening session. Please. [[16:11:13]] 336 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, once again, I want to report that, given the results of the Conciliation Council, we are now going to look at medical reform. That was the decision of the Conciliation Council. I would like to inform you that, according to the outcome of the Conciliation Council, there are now two laws in the agenda for the removal of inviolability: one bill that has been tabled by the President as urgent; one bill that has been drafted and initiated by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. So once we're done with medical reform, we move on to two issues of inviolability. I've already given the commission in the morning, and once again, I'm giving the commission to the committee to review these two bills tomorrow, because they don't have committee decisions today. And after we've considered two drafts on the elimination of inviolability, and I'm convinced that we're going to make a positive decision, we're going to go to the electoral reform bill. There are five: three bills and two codes. Thursday, after two issues of inviolability, we will move on to electoral reform. I hope that the 900 rights that are in medical reform can be considered by Thursday morning so that we can work fully on both the issues of integrity and the issues of electoral legislation on Thursday. I think it's a compromise, I think it's the result of our negotiations, and I think it's an important further historic step by the Ukrainian Parliament, which shows the ability to work constructively and harmoniously. And I want to stress once again that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been, is and will be the site that builds Ukraine's future. And no one has the right to attack the Supreme Council of Ukraine, nor even such plans. These are anti-Ukrainian measures and anti-Ukrainian scenarios. Now, according to the Rules, we are moving to the draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Devices (number 6327). And I invite you to the report of Sisoyenko Irina Volodymyrna, deputy head of the Health Committee. Mrs. Irina, please. Right-wing authors please prepare for work. Please, since the issue and the law are important, I ask the reporter to give it up to 10 minutes. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I know that now, because of what is happening in this Parliamentary Hall, there is an entire Ukraine, because Parliament is finally going to consider and vote on the bill with a mediocrity reform. Many people who apply to district hospitals, urban hospitals, district hospitals no longer think that anything can change in this country, and that the state finally has to pay for medical care, pay for medical services, for everything guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Similarly, the Ukrainian Parliament has little confidence in people who are able to adopt not only bills for judicial reform in violation of citizens’ rights, bills that will be a police state, bills under which the State is constantly increasing taxes, and bills that are important to everyone about the very value, life and health of the people can be passed in this Parliamentary Hall. The legislation under which Ukraine has been living for many years has already been established by the very health system of the Soviet Union. And in all these 26 years of the independence of our nation, we have not done the main thing, we have not built a mechanism for the implementation of 49 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly determines that medical assistance should be free to all citizens of our country. So Bill 6327, which is now submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is prepared by the Committee for Second Reading, firstly changes the principles of financing medical care, introduces that the State should pay directly to a hospital in which the patient comes and not declare, but actually pay for the contractual costs of the State budget of Ukraine. The question of medicine is very sensitive, for this applies to the most valuable — the life and health of each one of us. Sadly, then, it is very easy to manipulate health care, health care, and health care. And as a result, today we see that the whole society has been discussing this very important bill lately. I want to point out that, after finally changing the principles of financing the health care system and paying them for medical services, we must finally take the important step that long - standing countries of the world have taken. We're not implementing some "Ukrainian bike," we're implementing this legislation that's been working in European developed countries for a long time. So it is very important that right now, at least now, the Parliament of the Eighth Call, but finally, it adopts changes to the health system. I want to point out that today there are huge debates, manipulations, myths around this bill by people who are uncomfortable with adopting changes and improving the health system in public health institutions. Who's not comfortable with that? Change medicine for those who have for many years controlled shadow financial flows at the expense of Ukrainian patients in state medical institutions. Changes in the health system are not needed by those who still want Ukraine to survive under the conditions of the Soviet Union in the Soviet hospitals that now exist throughout Ukraine. Nor do changes in health care need those politicians who of these parliamentary rostrums have merely promised, told of the nature of medicine, but unfortunately did nothing. Now, concerning the substance of this bill. I want to thank the representatives of all the political forces who are in the Supreme Council because it is the rights of the Ukrainian national deputies who have been submitted to the Health Committee, Bill 6327, which was submitted by the government before the first reading, that has changed considerably, and its standards are those that guarantee payment of medical care to patients in medical institutions. It was the representatives of all the political forces that were represented in Parliament that 893 amendments were made, of which 413 were taken into account, which is the new content and substance of Bill 6327, which is now being put into consideration and I am counting on it to be adopted and voted by this House. First of all, we've completely cancelled the payment for medical assistance from the citizens of our country. That is, for the entire list of medical services, for the full range of medical care, it is up to the States to pay a hundred percent. I stress that this was a requirement of many political forces in Parliament. Almost all the political forces, the national deputies, by their amendments, have made amendments that deal with the cancellation of the question of co-payment, and this is in the new text of the bill. That amount of funding for the implementation of the State guarantee programme should be determined annually in the State budget of Ukraine and should be at least 5 per cent of Ukraine's gross domestic product, as well as to determine that expenditure on the health guarantees programme is a protected article of Ukraine's budget. That is, we owe both the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will now directly participate in the formation of expenditure on that state guarantee programme for citizens of the State to pay medical aid so that the public budget will be allocated at least 5 percent of GDP. If this bill is implemented, according to the State budget, it will be sufficient for people who are crossing the threshold of a medical institution to feel directly that the state has finally begun to pay for medical care and medical care. The amendments and changes to the Health Committee, in addition to the types of medical care offered by the government, the State will pay not only primary health care, emergency medical care and palliative health care, we added that it will be necessary for the State to pay for the second level of medical care, the payment of highly specialized medical care, and the payment of medical care to children under 16 years of age, pregnancy and maternity pay, all of which are new amendments and standards of the bill. Public health programmes, epidemic control measures, medical and social expertise, judicial and forensic expertise, and other health-care programmes that are implemented by state programmes, are clearly approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and are fully maintained. All defined health benefits are maintained for war veterans, war veterans, disabled persons, Chernobylites, military officials of the various powers of the other population, as defined in the current Ukrainian legislation. That is to say, this bill does not deprive previously established health benefits for individual categories of people who are entitled to it in accordance with existing legislation. The bill, too, is extremely important to the question of the formation of further pay for medical workers. We all see that it is the government's decrees that constantly violate the rights of health workers, and the pay fund is formed on the basis of a tariff network that is determined annually by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So in order to end this at last, and to ensure that health workers are not held hostage by the decisions of the Ministry of Health or the Prime Minister of Ukraine, or by the Minister of Finance, we are obliged by law to increase the rate of adjustment of the salary rate in order to make it impossible to reduce it by means of regulations. Thus, the bill states that the cost of health care tariffs and adjustment coefficients for health care services should be taken into account by a health worker whose salary should be not less than 250 per cent of the average salary in Ukraine in July of the year preceding the year in which such tariffs and adjustment coefficients are applied. Thus, the issue of pay for health workers is also changing and improving the law itself. Among other things, the bill provides for the payment of medical services directly to medical institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u5	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u6	The bill determines that an authorized authority of central executive authority, which will directly pay for medical care for contractual relationships in medical institutions, will be obliged to make contracts, and this is essentially a guarantee of payment for medical care with every medical institution of state and municipal property. And I would like to point out that in this bill there is no way about closing hospitals about their privatization or any other thing that has nothing to do with this bill. So the country's distinguished national deputies, especially those who are already calling in this room, need not only to tell us what medicine should be like in our country, but finally to start adopting those laws and making those changes directly in hospitals of state and municipal ownership throughout Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u7	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. This is one of the fundamental reforms that has led to much discussion, but I believe that in the course of the discussion we will be able to find proposals that unite the hall and make a positive decision. And we're going to the right-wing authors. So, as always, I'm going to call this a readjustment that's rejected, and if anyone wants to put it on confirmation, they're going to do it by raising their hand. Yeah? So the 3rd draft of the National MP, Timoshenko, has been rejected. Sergey, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u8	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to say immediately that there is some surprise that this bill will be reported by a deputy, not a committee head. But it's probably a committee decision. I want to say that we clearly understand that it is medical care that must be involved. But in fact, the bill is about a paying service office. Can our citizens of Ukraine pay? Of course not. I wish the bill was clear. In the name of the project, the word "medical services" and "medical services" are replaced by the words "medical assistance" in different ways. In a different way. Let me remind you that these are different things. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u9	Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u10	I want to point out that it is this bill that creates the conditions under which the citizens of our state will not pay, but will finally pay the state for medical services, for medical services, for medical services to the medical facilities that they apply to, whether to the district hospital, or to the city, or to the district. All of this is the purpose of this bill. What you've pointed out about medical care is a component of medical care, and that's why the name is defined in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u11	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Sergei? I'm voting on Amendment 3 by a group of national deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please identify yourself. Vote. [[16:28:07]] For-44 The decision is not taken. And I'm sorry, the first amendment was also rejected. Musi, turn on Musia's microphone on the first right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to note that this is, in fact, unlike the position that the reporter has heard from the rostrum, this bill has nothing to do with the real reform of the health system. Real reform of the health system is proposed in a committee bill called: Which was originally registered number 4456, and now it's registered under number 7065. And if we really care about Ukrainians, we really care about the health system, we really care about our health workers, we need to make systematic complex reforms, not pseudo-reform names unknown to anyone at all. So the first amendment is that the bill, which was previously number 4456 and now has number 7065, replaces all the articles of the bill. And this will then be a testimony to the fact that we really want to do medical reform. Thank you. And I'm going to ask you for 2 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u13	Please, Mrs. Irina, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u14	I want to say to the speaker that we must finally unite, not around names, but around the substance and content of legislative initiatives. That your attempt to replace the text of this bill, which is already essentially parliamentary and not governmental, is a violation of the Supreme Council's Rules of Work, because it does not provide for a replacement of the text of your authorship bill to the text of the bill that is currently being considered in Parliament. Therefore, I ask you not to vote for this amendment. The committee's decision is to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u15	Thank you, dear colleagues. Let's put to the vote amendment number four of Musia's deputies. We're going to vote yours first, then we're going to vote yours. Please vote, determine. [[16:30:26]] For-38 Not supported. We're moving. Mr. Musai, we have it. Mr. Musei, we have now, we're on the move. So we're past the 2nd. Now Amendment 5, Ostapchuk. Dear colleague, we can't go back to what we've been through, because that's how we're going to be looking at this bill by the end of the year. Please, Ostapchuk. Now it's the 5th amendment. Don't insist. 6th Amendment, Kocheljeva. Please, Kocheljeva. I don't see Cochely's, I'm sorry. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u16	Oh, no, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u17	Don't insist. Royal, 7th Amendment. Don't insist. Now, you made the 4th sound of yours, we did it. Dear Mr. Musai, we were just following your 4 adjustments, you've already heard it. Your Honor, what's going on now? We had a 1 amendment, then a 4's, and we went 4's. 1st, 3rd? All right, I'm sorry, I get it. Now 1st, 3rd, one minute. Four. Please, Mr. Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u18	Madam Chairman, I'm asking for confirmation. I'm asking you not to distract the host at the meeting, Mr. Pinzenik, please! I'm asking you to make a series of second revisions, which is counted, and then put them on the approved one, and then move on to my fourth revision, which is rejected. So on the other hand, the change in the title of the bill changed the substance of the bill, so I think it's totally inappropriate to change that name. So I'm asking you to put in a second amendment for confirmation, and then give me a word on the fourth line, which is rejected, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, amendment number two, which has been counted by the committee, is the amendment of the National Deputy Berezenka. As the author of the amendment, Mr. Berezenko does not insist on the word. I'm asking you to put it on confirmation, second amendment. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote for the second amendment. Please support. [[16:33:05]] Z-71 71 votes, unconfirmed amendment. Next, the fourth amendment, Moses. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u20	Madam Chairman, I'm going to bet on the confirmation of all my deviations and partial adjustments, so I'm going to ask you to take this into account when we consider the bill. Regarding the fourth amendment, a public health supplement that provides for prevention and which is not medical care, namely, a healthy lifestyle, for example, is not medical care. In order for the bill to be more systematic and complex, it would be perfectly logical to consider the fourth amendment and extend it to include health care and medical care as well as public health. So I insist on voting to take this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u21	Thank you. The committee wants to comment. Please, Mrs. Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u22	Public health programmes, including epidemic control measures, have all been approved by the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine. In no way does this bill alter or invalidate the availability of these state programs. So your amendment was rejected by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u23	Please confess to Amendment 4, National MP Musia. The committee turned her down. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[16:34:53]] For-37 Correction not accepted. Next, 9th, Musei. Please, the microphone. 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the 9th draft refers exactly to the preamble to what this law defines as the order of compliance with national financial guarantees for providing the people with the necessary medical care, medical care and public health services. In fact, according to our Constitution, citizens have the right to health care, which includes both health care and public health services. If we leave it to the committee, we will withdraw the guarantees provided for in article 22 of the Constitution. That's why my amendment just widens into understanding the Constitution these guarantees. So please put her to the vote on this 9th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, we are determined by the 9th amendment. It's a committee against it. [[16:36:04]] For-36 You're not being corrected. Dear Deputy Lozova, we've already passed the 6th. Take the next word. Well, we've been through it. I've been announcing it. Next amendment number 11, Ostapchuk. Ostapchuk. Don't insist. Kocheyeva, 12th. Please, Vineyard, 12th Amendment. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u26	Andrew Lozova. The Radical Party is not ready to support a genocide that is somehow called a reform in our country. Notice, in fact, all the professional doctors, all the lighting professions, all our great esculpists, they're not supported. Just bullying the Ukrainians, depriving them of their constitutional right to medical care. Note that the report does not include the head of the medical sciences committee, Olga Bogolitz. I wanted to warn all the deputies who are ready to support the so-called medical reform, especially the majorists. You are voting for the closure of numerous district hospitals, numerous FAPs in villages, the closure of wards and hospitals that will remain. You vote for the release of thousands of narrow-profile professionals throughout the country. You vote that older people, especially in the villages, will not be able to travel to another area, to a hospital, because there will be no hospitals in their area. It's bullying people. Our position is to give people affordable medicine and give it to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u27	Thank you. I'm the only one calling on the amendment authors to talk about the amendments, not the political position. Please. Because it was different. The amendment applied differently. Comment, please, heads, committee representative. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u28	I want to point out that the political sleep that has just been has nothing to do with the text and the substance of the bill that we are currently discussing. In no way does the bill provide for the closure of any hospital. On the contrary, it preserves all of Ukraine’s municipal and state medical facilities. Including, I would like to point out that this bill creates guarantees for people who finally need to pay for the volume and quality of medical services in district, city and district hospitals. Hence, your amendment, which you have never heard, is not supported by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u29	Thank you, representative of the committee, who has once again focused on the fact that, in fact, guide the room on the subject of amendments so that the room knows what to vote for. And now we're voting for amendment 12. Andrew, we've heard. Dear, noble Mr. Andrew, we have heard everything. Discussion, we don't have an amendment discussion, we're determined by Amendment 12. Please, we're on our way. We don't have an amendment discussion. [[16:39:09]] For-23 Not supported. Batecheva, 13th. Don't insist. Moses, 15th. Dear colleagues, I give you my word because this is what the Rules require. But I would also like to draw the attention of all those who are now following the adoption of the medical reform that we have going on to balance the bill, and rolling down all the amendments that the committee has adopted. Please, Mr. Musia, word for amendment 14, this is the national deputy of Berezenka, Sissyenka, Korchinsky. The committee accepted it. Please, Mr. Musai, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u30	As for the 14 amendments, in fact, the committee's honourable members are trying to amend this bill, which is the conclusion, if you look closely, of the General Legal Office, which is added to the second reading. Thus, in this conclusion, seven articles of the Constitution are broken. Therefore, this article cannot be based on the provision of legislation on State financial guarantees on the Constitution of Ukraine when seven articles of the Constitution are not taken into account by the Supreme Council’s lawyers. Therefore, in fact, the claim that the legislation on State financial guarantees of health care is based on the Constitution -- does not correspond to reality -- and consists of the basics of health legislation and this law, which regulates social relations in the field of health. So this amendment is as unconstitutional as the bill itself. Therefore, please place an amendment on the confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u31	Please comment from the committee that supported this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u32	I want to say that this amendment is an amendment not only to specific national MPs, but to all representatives of the Health Committee who have adopted and approved this bill in a second reading. I would like to point out that legislation on State financial guarantees for public health care is based on the Constitution of Ukraine and the Basic Health Legislation. And I want to remind you once again that you stop manipulating, and this bill is the very mechanism for implementing 49 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. So I insist that the Hall confirm this amendment, which was created and formed by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, we are determined, please, by amendment 14. I would like to point out that the committee supported her and asked the Hall to support the amendment. Please vote. [[16:41:54]] For-83 83 votes. Next amendment 15, Moses. Please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the legislation on public financial guarantees, the provision of medical care, medical supplies also includes and should include public health services. In fact, this text is not prepared by physicians, not by professionals who have never worked in the health care system who have no bearing on the organization and management of health, but who perform exclusively political orders, some political orders from the leadership of the State, some political orders from the International Monetary Fund, some political orders from the guarantors. Therefore, this has nothing to do with real reform, for public health and prevention are and should be part of health reform. And the very balancing of the law is what we don't include. So I'm going to propose that I confirm and take into account my current design, where there's a public health system and it's predictable. So please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u35	Please determine on the line number 15, which the committee did not support, did not support. [[16:43:30.]] For-38 The decision is not made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u36	It's the 15th amendment, right, I understand? 15th. Please, Moses, the 15th Amendment. Aah! 16th. Yes. Overruled. Don't insist. 17th, Dennis. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 19th. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. 21st. Don't insist. 22nd. Victor Pinzenic, please. 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to make four confirmations: 22nd, 23rd, 24th and 26th. The thing is, before the second reading, unfortunately, the bill didn't get any better. In his second reading, he comes out of the illusion that the budget has an enormous amount of money, and tomorrow that money will be poured into medicine by the river. Where are they supposed to come from? The budget, of course, should not reduce funding, but living with the illusion that tomorrow there will be a huge amount of money in the budget, which has a multibillion dollar hole, is not serious. And by doing so, without fully paying for the services, we are undermining the very idea of reform. Who will do the service if it is not fully paid? So I'm going to ask you to put all four clearances in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u38	Mrs. Irina, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u39	I want to point out that it is with these amendments that it is very clear that the public health service programme, basically everything that the state has to pay for the budget, has to be paid by 100 percent without a co-payment. And the issue of the exclusion of co-payment by the parties of the state was amended by many people's deputies, almost all the factions that are in this room. So the committee insists that amendment No. 22 which defines this health-care programme should be included in the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u40	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Four repairs. Okay, I'll put each of them apart. I'm putting 22 amendments on confirmation. The committee supported it, and the committee is asking the room to support 22 revisions. Please vote, the committee's asking for support. We're voting, we're deciding. [[16:46:13]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 23rd Amendment. The committee supported her, and the committee is asking the hall to support the amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. Vote. 23rd Amendment. [[16:46:37]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 24th. Yeah? 24th. The committee also supported it, and the committee asked the room to support the amendment. So 24 revisions, please specify. Vote. [[16:47:02]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. And with 26 revisions, it's partially accounted for, what's the requirement? I mean, to count it whole or yes. It's edited, so in this case, I'm putting Pinzenic's offer away. It's for confirmation. All right, for confirmation, 26 confirmations. Please vote, please identify yourself. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote. [[16:47:46]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next. 35th. Don't insist. 29th. This is Musai, considered editorially. Please turn on Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u41	Dear National Deputies! And it's just in the wording of "edited" that narrows down the concept by dividing into "list" and "solution of medical services." In my opinion, which is virtually indistinguishable, apart from these two words "list" and "service" and "solution of health services", it is stated that the Health Services Program, which is financed in full from the State budget and approved together with the budget, does not provide for "full volume" to be split into "list" and "solution of medical services". Because if we go into the list separately and in terms of quantity, then the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to prepare the state budget for a list of dates, for example 80 percent, for a "volume" of 90 percent, and that will balance the health system. So taking the "full volume" into account would make sense absolutely, and I'm asking you to confirm that it's my job to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u42	Thank you. So it's edited. Mr. Musai stresses and wants it to be taken fully into account. Yeah? Whoever supports Musia's proposal that number 29 be taken fully into account, please vote. [[16:49:32]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 35th. Don't insist. 36th. Don't insist. 33rd. Pinzenic, please, 33rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, we all know that the real financing of medicine is far from the real needs of medicine. And tomorrow there will be no miracle that tomorrow we will be fully financing the needs of medicine. And we predict and rely on the budget for the full payment of services, what the new system of financing medicine cannot do without. Are we going to take half a pill or a quarter tomorrow, or is the operation going to end with the patient being cut and sewn up? So I'm asking you to put this right here for confirmation and not support it, 33 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u44	So I'm betting on confirmation of 33 amendments, the committee counted it, I'm asking you to be sure, 33 approvals, we're voting. [[16:50:47]] For-54 53-yes. The decision is not made. 35th. Don't insist. 36th. Don't insist. 38th. 37th. Sobolen. Please, 37 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! He's been taking care of Fatherland. In fact, it's now a definite, look, we're not actually introducing any part of insurance medicine. That is, not a penny will be added by a private partnership, by a business that is obliged, at least in part, to participate in health insurance, nor will a person add a penny. We're actually leaving the same conditional 82 billion dollars that we're just going to redistribute in another way. The only thing we can do to protect medicine is my amendment, where I propose to increase funding to 7 percent of GDP. Then there is the filling, which the resource appears to be, since we have not found anything else, which allows us to seriously raise the level of medicine. If this is not done, and one of the intermediates has been chosen, five percent of the government’s budget should be spent on education and medicine, that is its sacred duty. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u46	Please comment, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u47	I want to point out that this bill forms state guarantees. If we're talking about State guarantees, we don't have to look at either private medicine or employers accordingly, and we have to finally get the state to guarantee, and we have to pay in parallel the amount of medical care it has to do. And the public budget spending annually on the health care system went to funding, paying for medical services directly to Ukraine’s medical facilities. In terms of volume, Amendment 122 defines that the expenditure on this government financial guarantee program should be at least five percent. If the state is able to allocate seven, as you suggest, I am confident that it will only benefit the citizens of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u48	Mr. Sergei, if I put it right on the vote, it's taken into account in part, you want it to be fully accounted for, it's going to be right, right? So I'm putting Sergey Soboljev's proposal to vote so that 37 amendments are fully incorporated into the law. Please determine by vote. [[16:53:39]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 38th. Don't insist. 43rd. Don't insist. 47th. Don't insist. 50th. Don't insist. 52nd. Don't insist. 53rd. Don't insist. 55th. Don't insist. 59th. Don't insist. 61st. Don't insist. 62nd. 61st. I can't see. Matkowski, 61st, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, with my right, I wanted to give a deeper definition of "medical service providers." That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u50	So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 61 people's deputies of Matkowski. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:54:47]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 62nd. Don't insist. 63rd. Don't insist. 64th. Don't insist. 65th. Don't insist. 67th. Don't insist. 68th. Don't insist. It's 68th, Lechchenka. Turn on the microphone. I'll give it to you after Lechchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u51	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now thousands of people with specific requirements are under the Supreme Council. With the specific requirements promised by President Prašenko and his faction: Anti-corruption court, new electoral rules on open lists and the abolition of parliamentary immunity. This oligarchic Supreme Council refused to consider the demands of the people and continued to work, as if nothing had happened, as if everything were normal. We will not participate in this farce. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union requires that the Supreme Council consider the demands of the people without delay. And this farce is simply an example of how most people spit on the Ukrainian people. Shame on you all!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u52	Are you insisting on the vote? No, it's not. Thank you. 70th, Sergey Sobolev, please. 70th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u53	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it's a very definite amendment. First of all, I am addressing the minister of health. What's the point of my proposal? We do not need to create any additional bodies that will carry as much as 10 percent of all health - care funding. My suggestion is that these functions be carried out by the Ministry of Health and that the minister be directly responsible for these key activities. Here it's suggested to create a new central organ. Do you have any idea what that's going to cost? It's a parallel facility, it's a parallel device, it's a parallel funding -- that's where we're going to take the steps that we might eventually add to health care. So my suggestion is that this amendment doesn't take into account any new central authority, it's a direct function of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u54	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u55	I want to point out that, indeed, between the first and second readings of the Health Committee, there have been changes in this body that is to be created, and the bill defines it as just an authorized authority of the central executive authority, that is, in fact, those powers can be given to both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, and only the Cabinet of Ministers have to determine which body it should be. So in the text of this bill, including the Supreme Council Order, we have abolished the special status of this central executive body. So your amendment is not considered by the committee, but the committee formed this point in the amendment that is in the text of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u56	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I am voting on the amendment of 70 groups of deputies, Kugel and Soboljeva. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:58:46]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 72nd. Don't insist. 74th. Don't insist. 75. Don't insist. 76. Don't insist. 81st. Don't insist. 82nd. Don't insist. 79th, right? Please, 79th, yes, Musius. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u57	I'm asking you, she was rejected. Surprisingly, you missed it, but 79 readouts say that it is precisely the case for health care and services in the public health system, which is the only payment scale for units of account based on methods of financing contracts for public health care and public health services. This formulation allows different tariff methods to be applied, not one unified. In fact, the World Bank is currently carrying out a project on diagnostic and related groups, where pilot regions determine that, according to the methodology used in Australia, the diagnostic and related groups are budgeted for medical services. But unfortunately, I'm very surprised that these tariffs that the World Bank has funded can't be applied if we apply this formula that the committee is proposing. So I'm asking you to vote on my amendment in the wording that I made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u58	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u59	Your amendment was rejected by the committee. And I want to point out that this bill does not extend to the regulation of public health services. I would like to point out to you one more time that all of your public health amendments, which have been rejected by the committee, have no bearing on the public health agenda. So please reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u60	So I'm voting on Amendment 79. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee turned it down. [[17:01:03]] For-37 The decision is not taken. It's the '80s. 81st. 82nd. 83rd. 84th. 85th. 86th. 87th. 88th. 91st. 92nd. 92nd, Musius. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, my point is that it is in this formulation that it provides that the program should provide for all the just needs of citizens. Instead, the final drafting of the bill, which is provided only by the State Health Guarantee Program, narrows the guarantees for the people. This is contrary to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine and, by the way, to the conclusions of the Legal Authority. Are you not reading the conclusion of the Legal Authority, which clearly indicates that this is a narrowing of guarantees for people, so. and foresees the satisfaction of these needs only as handed over by the State Guarantees Program. So it is an anticonstitutional statement of what the committee has proposed, unlike mine, which provides for full consideration of articles 22 and 49 of the Constitution. So I would like to vote in favour of 92.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u62	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u63	I would like to point out that this article in the first draft of the bill, which you say narrows down the rights of people, is completely excluded from the draft of the second reading bill in preparation for the second reading. That's why your amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u64	I would like to vote on the amendment of 92 people's deputies Musia. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:02:59]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 93rd. 94th. What's the 90? Four. Please, Eutusek, 94 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u65	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to draw attention once again to the words of my colleague Sergey Sobolev, who said that there is no least hint of insurance in the bill, but only a central authority is being created to distribute money. So people resent the unfair distribution of medical expenses between average citizens, especially in district and city hospitals, and high - income workers and rich people, who have incomparably more treatment opportunities, including abroad. The aim of establishing national financial guarantees for the provision of health care, medical care and public health services is to ensure the fair needs of Ukrainian citizens in the necessary medical care, medical care, the preservation and rehabilitation of the population of Ukraine through a fair distribution of the burden of health care and public health care and the creation of conditions for transparent multichannel financing of the health care system in Ukraine. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u66	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 94 groups of deputies, including Sergei Evtushek. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:04:40]] For-34 The decision is not taken. So, 95's. 96th. 97th, Musius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u67	Dear National Deputies! In fact, the formulation proposed by the committee that State guarantees are granted only through State programs contradicts 49 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. For everyone, imagine that all the services that have not entered state guarantees are not guaranteed to humans. This means that, in fact, as was the case with the 18th - year budget, when we see a reduction in health spending by 0.5 percent of GDP. And for it to exist, it takes 7 percent. So people will now be forced to pay extra for entering the hospital, except for what they have paid before. Well, people, what are you doing? Indeed, in the dim eyes of the International Monetary Fund, once the population of Ukraine has been reduced, people will not have guaranteed access to health care, even access. That's why I'm asking you to make this amendment for confirmation. By the way, the next revision is too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u68	Please comment, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u69	I realize that it is very easy to manipulate medical and health issues. However, I would like to see the text of the amendments that the Health Committee has drawn up as part of this bill, which insists on amendments. This amendment is extremely important because it also forms public financial guarantees for the payment of medical services. And everything you've pointed out doesn't make any sense or sense to what is a good bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u70	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote of 97. The committee supports it and the committee asks to vote in favour. It's about confirmation. Vote please, colleagues. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee's asking for support. [[17:07:05]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 98th. Put her to the vote. 98th, it's partially accounted for. What is your request? Well, turn it on, just say it. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u71	My requirement is that the second point of my amendment is not taken into account. And this second point is very important. First of all, thank God. The second paragraph provides that additional government financial guarantees may be established under Ukraine’s laws. If we take this off, for example, purchases made under centralized government programs can be cancelled tomorrow. Therefore, there is a high risk of cancelling all other State guarantees. I don't understand why the committee turned her down. You know there are now 6 billion drug purchases. And tomorrow, the government will see that money is not enough for the 5 percent of GDP that you have offered and will cancel the purchase of drugs from other programs. So I'd like to leave it as much as I've suggested. That's why I'm asking you to put the entire amount to confirm my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u72	Thank you. So I'm voting on Musia's proposal to support regulation 98 in full. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:08:44]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, the hour -- we've only been through a hundred amendments. 99th. Please, Dubyl. Microphone's on. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u73	Yeah. I emphasize that Law 6327 was voted in an anti-constitutional manner. Then a working group was created that essentially changed the name of the law completely, even the numbering of the amendments and the substance of the amendments. I also want to say that Law 6327 is not a medical reform. This law, in fact, takes into the community the cost of decentralization, the subsidy, creates a central body with more than 8 billion funds, and then it's more than 100 billion dollars to distribute this money and put it on the knees of family doctors, district hospitals, FAPs, outpatients, all hospitals that are actually going to stand with an extended hand that destroys medicine, the primary in the village, the infirmary and the FAPs and closes the hospital area. And no one is saying that today 66,000 doctors have gone abroad. In fact, the amendment cannot be guaranteed to citizens today, the State guarantees payment to medical institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u74	Ma'am, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u75	In a state where medicine is now both FAPs and district hospitals, and the rural hospitals that you've told us about, they're now on their knees and there are people on their knees who come to these medical facilities and are forced to pay for everything on their own. And the whole point of this bill is to change it at last, not just to talk from the parliamentary rostrums, what medicine should be like in Ukraine and how it works well in developed states, but finally to do it in our country. Your amendment was rejected by the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u76	Your proposal for a vote to take fully into account? Thus, the national MP Dubyl proposes that amendment 99 be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:11:07]] For-36 It's not a decision. Yeah, 106th. Don't yell, I'll give it to you. It's going to be 102-a, 104-a, 105-a, in this order. First 102, Storm, please. And then Ivchenko. Please, just one minute, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u77	Igor Šurma. I want to stop these curves that we're big reformers here and we're changing the law. I want to remind you that there are 49 articles of the Constitution, and much of what is being introduced here is your treatment. And if the President said it was a violation, it would depend on him whether he signed it. And now, essentially. In accordance with this law, the State guarantees full payment according to the rate of payment for the State budget of Ukraine, provided to patients with the necessary medical care and medical care provided by the State guarantee package. I insist on introducing the term "full pay" or "per cent pay" so that there are no other treatments, because it won't give you a field for manipulation, but it doesn't make sense, "full pay," it's partial or not any other. Time will tell you that today you have proposed this financial document and you are conducting it as a medical reform, and there is no reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u78	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u79	I would like to point out that the issue of the cancellation of co-payments and the fact that the state pays the full cost of the state budget of Ukraine is already clearly defined in the law. Your amendment is edited, that is, the content and all that you've just said is included in the committee's decision as the standard of the bill that is currently being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u80	Thank you. Tell me, Mr. Igor, how do I put it, it's taken into account in an editorial way, do you require it to be fully accounted for, or should it be rejected? Please turn on the microphone, 10 seconds, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u81	Igor Šurma. It's taken into account editorially, but once again, I'm stressing that there's a double treatise going on here when we talk about those and that, I just stressed this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u82	You don't insist on voting, do you? Don't insist. Okay. 104th. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u83	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you. You know, it can't be called reform or a bill that completely contradicts the Constitution. There is article 49, and we are all clear with you that laws cannot go directly into the controversy with the articles of the Constitution today. I also want to say that it cannot be called a reform that simply foresees a redistribution of budgetary resources. We take all the money into an organ, and then we monopolize it. This is, of course, talking about the following, it says about the next thing that I also want to remind you of the position of the unions. Trades don't understand, you know, this experiment on medicine and generally on the medical field in this country. I want to say right away, which is usually going to happen in all of Ukraine's patients. So this right here speaks of the full, direct state guarantees full payment at the expense of the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u84	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u85	And I don't want to, thank you for giving us a cat in a bag, where they give us a guaranteed package of services without showing us today what a guaranteed package of services is and what it is for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u86	Thank you. Keep trying to enter in a minute, the system gives you six seconds extra, because otherwise we'll kick off any reasonable limits. Mrs. Irina, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u87	I would like to point out to the speaker that your amendment and its contents are partly taken into account. I would like to stress that the purpose of the bill is to directly implement the 49th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, which you have just mentioned. And the foundation of government funding is finally going to be a person and a patient who's going to medical institutions, so that the state can start paying for medical supplies, medical care, and that, in particular, directly reflects the quality of medical care and increases the cost of medical workers. What you've pointed out about trade unions, I want you to know that many middle-aged, junior staff are supporting this bill and the major changes that will finally take place in the health system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u88	Thank you. So I'm voting on the proposal of Ichchenk, amendment 104, to take full account of. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:16:29]] For-48 The decision is not taken. On 105th and Musai and Pinzenik, we can have Pinzenik. Why, that's 105 Kirichenko's right, let's do Victor Pinzenik. You're doing something different. You can't break it down into two. But there will be many more rights, and there will be yours. Mr. Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, I'm 105th and 107th Amendment at once. The primary idea of reform is to move from financing the maintenance of institutions to financing the outcome of the end-of-service service. But at the same time, it's very important for the service to be fully paid, and I would very much like the budget to do it, but everyone in this room understands very well that it's impossible, and not by providing full payment for the service, we're putting the idea of reform at stake. So I'm asking you to put 105 and 107 revisions for confirmation and not support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u90	Mrs. Irina, will you comment? You won't. Dear colleagues, the committee supported 105th and 107th revisions, and we're putting them in order, please first 105 amendments, please support, the committee is asking to vote in favour. [[17:18:03]] Z-71 71 votes, no need. 107 amendment, please support. The committee voted in favour. [[17:18:24]] Z-70. 70, not supported. Next, 114th, Arrow. Don't insist. Next up, Lewchenko, 118th, Lewchenko, doesn't insist. Royal, I don't see, I don't see 120, I don't insist. Batecheva, 121st. Don't insist. 122nd. I'll just be a minute. 122 revisions. This is the Berezenko amendment, which was counted by the committee. Please, Pinzenik’s microphone, which insists on confirming this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u91	I ask you to place on confirmation not all the changes, but only paragraph 5 of this amendment. Because this paragraph refers to the financing of medicine, which is not the norm of the law, it is the rules of the Budget Code and the State Budget Act. On Thursday, we will be considering the State Budget Act, and discussions about how much we spend on medicine should be conducted when the document that actually allocates funds for medicine is approved. So I'm asking paragraph 5 of Amendment 122, this is the only option I can place on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u92	Comment, please, from the committee representative. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u93	I want to point out that this amendment is not just for the Berezenka MPs, but for the National Deputies of the entire committee. And I urge you to keep this right here in full editing together with paragraph 5. I'll read it, paragraph 5. "The program of medical guarantees is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the National Budget Act of Ukraine for the corresponding year." So the point is that not only does the government decide what medical services to pay, but it also makes it possible for the Ukrainian Parliament to take responsibility and, in addition to the government budget, to form a list and the amount of medical care to be paid by the state each year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u94	Dear Mr. Pinzenik, you insist on it anyway. The explanation did not satisfy you. Please, we put to the vote only one fifth of amendment 122 concerning article 5 concerning the medical safeguards program. The committee wants to vote in favour. For that 5 amendment. The 5th paragraph was edited as in the amendment of the committee members. Please vote in favour of the committee asking for a vote. [[17:21:07]] For-64 64 national deputies only supported the amendment. Sadly, it has been canceled. 135th, Kugel, don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, right now, I'm just going after the ones that are rejected. We'll be right back. 124th Moses, partially counted. Please, it's Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u95	The distinguished national deputies, the committee, unfortunately, did not take into account the full range of medical care that today is divided into six types of legislation. We need to first learn the game and realize that there are basics of legislation in Ukraine, we don't make a clean field. So in my list, there's absolutely everything that needs to be covered by the State Guarantees program. For example, a child’s or a pediatrician’s help. You write "help kids." But help to children can be given at the primary level, at the secondary level, at the third level, a highly specialized aid. And quick to the kids, too, emergency medical care. Thus, artificially disregarding the basics of legislation will lead to the fact that a large number of people, including children, and even those with complications, will not be able to receive medical care. Will that be State guarantees? Probably not. So I ask for an exclusive list, which is in my right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u96	Please, Irina Sisoyenko, from the committee, wants to comment on why your amendment was partly taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u97	I would like to point out that the Health Committee has very clearly identified all kinds of medical care to be paid by the State for, namely, emergency medical care, primary health care, secondary health care, a third of highly specialized medical care, palliative medical care, medical rehabilitation, medical care for children under 16. This means that there is a primary link, and emergency medical care, and highly specialized, including health care in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. This was a fundamental decision for the committee’s national deputies. So please don't manipulate and read the bill carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u98	I ask you to vote for this amendment. The committee partly counted it. Musai insists that the MP Moses insists that the hall be fully supported. I'd like to make a statement. We're going after the repairs. The author has already spoken, Mrs. Ola. Again, I didn't hear anything. [[17:23:52]] For-36 The next amendment is 126, Eutusek. I'm sorry, Eutusek. It's partially accounted for, but you have a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u99	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to remind you, maybe someone doesn't know. Those national MPs in their districts are often confronted by people who are being treated, parents of sick children who are suffering from pangs of mucoviscidosis, orphania. And in fact, if there's a normal head of the district council and the head of the administration at these locations, there's extra money from the local budget, and if there's no, I'm sorry, in a year, the kid could burn up. So what I'm saying is that we're now a cat in a bag trying to talk, because we don't see this list. The law applies to the program of State guarantees in the area of health care. I would just like the committee not to be partial, but to take fully into account the amendment. And put to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u100	Please bet on the author's request for a vote on the amendment that the committee partially counted, 126th. Please identify yourself. [[17:25:18]] For-48 Not supported. Next amendment of national MP Lózov 136. Are you insisting? Please. I've already announced, and then I'll give you my word. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u101	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party. Parliament's task must be, and our team insists on this, two principles of state philosophy. First, it's available medicine for Ukrainians. There is no need to invent anything new; there is a world experience of insurance medicine. Second, it's a normal, well-deserved medical worker's job. You know how many intern doctors are getting today after six years of medical school and after two years of boarding school? The person has studied, the person has gone through an incredible practice, he comes to the hospital, for example, the district or even the district, and he gets -- think about it! – 2,000,600 dollars a month is clean for work, for saving people's lives and health. It's just abuse, it's contempt for the work of a doctor. Today, we must -- every Ukrainian patriot -- protect the doctor's right, the nurse's right, the right to work, the right to a normal salary and a decent life, not what you're offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u102	Let's vote for the amendment, please. Do you not insist on voting, Andrew? Andrew! He insists. 136 amendments, please. I can't hear if it's Mrs. Sissyenko or if I'm being approached? To Sisoyenko. Well, when she wants to comment, Mrs. Sissyenko raises her hand, don't worry, Mrs. Oksano. [[17:26:55]] For-41 135th Amendment, this is Kugel and Sobolev, so I didn't notice that you, Mr. Sergei, wanted to insist. Please, the Soboljevo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u103	Sobolje, Fatherland. Unfortunately, dear colleagues did not take into account my amendment to 7 percent of GDP, leaving 5 percent behind. I have not considered my amendment to create another bureaucratic organ, which will only eat 200 million for the next year. Well, at least consider this amendment. What's she talking about? What should be financed is no less than established by law. It's just a rule of law. And if you change your budget, you're going to have to change the law again. Why? If there's a budget overhaul, you're automatically able to, if the entry "no less than" is actually additionally allocated to the financing of medicine, and so we have this bureaucratic procedure that will eat everything, even the fines that might be added. So the request: consider this amendment "no less than," and then it'll be consistent with the logic itself: there's a budget overhaul -- you have an opportunity to spend extra money on medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u104	Please, Your Honor, we vote in favour of amendment 135 to Kugel Soboljeva. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:28:30.]] For-43 No amendment, 143 votes. 142 amendment, Litwin, MP. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u105	Dear National Deputies! I watch the discussion progress and conclude that everything is done in order to leave the original text. Motivation is no money. I have a question, if there's no money, why do you propose a revolution, as you understand it in medicine? We're here as statisticians. Because the deputies were told to run. Tomorrow they'll run, press the buttons. And before that, the reporter will talk about the amendments that have to be taken into account in order not to spoil the general picture of the bill. Well, it's not a job! What role do we play here with you? And one more thing. Perhaps the initiators of this action had to start by changing the Constitution of Ukraine and then making other decisions. It's about the repairs. I would like to add a part of the first article 5 to paragraph 6 of this sentence: "Proceedings to implement population immunoprotection." And I'd like to hear an argument, why isn't that done instead of telling you that MPs are involved in politics?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u106	There's a comment from Irina Sisoyenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u107	The bill provides for free medical assistance at all levels, including immunoprophylaxis, which you have just mentioned. But the way you made the amendment, it was rejected by the committee. But it is preserved in the law, which is in Bill 6327 until the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u108	Colleagues, we vote in favour of amendment 142 Vladimir Litvina. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind, please make up your mind. [[17:30:39]] For-36 No correction supported. 36 votes. Next amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka, 155th. Don't insist. 156 doesn't insist either. Litwin, 158th. Vladimir Mikhailovich, 158th, do you insist? Mr. Litwin, 158th, your repair. Don't insist. Next up, Dmitrenka, 151st. Don't insist. Yes, dear colleagues, now. Lechenko doesn't insist. Sobolen Sergey, 171st. Now, now, 171th, you don't insist. Now, I'm going back to 168. 168. Amendment of the Shurmi People's Deputy is partially taken into account. Please, Mr. Shurmi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the detailed description identifies a list of specific types of medical services and medical supplies that are paid in full at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget. A detailed description can also identify the types of medical services and medical devices that are not part of the government’s guaranteed package and are not subject to payment at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget. I insist on the term "full pay" or "per cent pay" that does not give a field for manipulation. And it's not clear how to treat it, it's full of pay, part of it or any other. And I would like to point out that this bill is accompanied by a gross violation of articles 22, 49, 64 of the Constitution, 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. This law will not be signed by the President anyway, and he warned against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u110	Please vote on the author’s request for 168 amendments, which were partially considered as a committee. Hall, please identify yourself. [[17:32:54]] For-26 26 votes. Not supported. Mr. Shurma, 174th, are you going to insist that she's partially accounted for? You won't. Thank you. The next 178th amendment, that's the People's Deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'll be right back. 174th, Shurma. It was partially accounted for. Please, Shurmi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, a detailed description is developed taking into account the provisions of the clinic’s instructions by the central executive body, which ensures the formation of public health policies, is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the framework of the draft Law on State Budget for the year in question. The Ministry of Health is responsible for the removal of corruption risks instead of the newly created body. I insist on fully confirming my amendment, not merely editorially. And I would like to stress once again that this bill is a gross violation of article 22, article 49, of the Constitution. The bill contains a violation of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules. We have to take it back that by this vote you are establishing the President of Ukraine, who, in an annual speech, warned of violations of legislation in part of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u112	Please vote against the author's request for 168 amendments, it has been taken into account. No, partly. Partly. Oh, stop! That's it. I'm sorry, 174 revisions. My colleagues, I've made a mistake. 174th. [[17:34:33]] For-26 26 votes, not supported. Next amendment of the People's Deputies of Lithuania, 178th. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u113	178 revisions. I propose article 5, paragraph 3, after the words “detailed description is developed taking into account the provisions of the clinical instructions of the central executive authorities, which implements public policy in the field of organization and funding for the provision of medical services and medical services” to be supplemented by the words “published for public discussion on the website of the central executive body, which implements public policy in the field of organization and funding for the provision of medical services and medical resources”. And please explain why they counted it. And the last. Since we are very productive, I propose that we conclude our consideration of all the amendments today and lay down the law for adoption in general. And you announce that the MPs are on the same page. Yeah. And don't say that the Rules don't allow it. Please provide an explanation for this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u114	Thank you, Your Honor, for the correction. The only thing I want to point out is that we can work for 40 minutes at least, and we still have over 600 amendments left. If we go according to the Rules, we have to go according to the Rules. We're putting to the vote the amendment of 178 people's deputies. Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Sisoyenko, comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u115	I want to point out that the committee rejected the amendment because part of part three of article 5 of this bill has already been drafted in a different way. So essentially the content of what is in your amendment is preserved in other laws of the bill, and what is involved in taking your amendment into account is rejected by the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u116	We are voting for amendment 178, rejected by the committee. [[17:36:38]] For-34 Not supported. The next amendment is 180, Eutusek. Please, Mr. Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u117	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. We've already talked about what's going to be the central body of executive power that's going to finance all these things. So in this amendment, I'm proposing in the text, 180 revisions. I'm asking you to turn on Julia Timoshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u118	Julia Volodymyrna, your colleague just lifted his hand in faction, so I think he wants to sound. This is Timoshenko, Soboleva, Evtushka, Yvchenka. Please, Mrs. Tymoshenko, the microphone. It wasn't my fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u119	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, everyone understands that we cannot leave the medical system the way it is today. But what's proposed is not just reform, I'd say it's anti-reform. Since this reform envisions a hidden, subtle destruction of two thirds of the network of medical facilities, it is proposed to essentially destroy the entire rural network of medical facilities. It says that all the money from the local budgets is taken to the central executive authority, and they will be regulating who is to be paid, who is not to be paid. Those salaries that have been declared under this medical reform provide that some 180 billion dollars are needed, 64 in the budget. This means that two thirds of health - care workers will simply be released. It's hidden.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u120	Dear Mr. Oleg, I ask you very much to allow us to sound the amendments correctly. I'm asking you, we have a meeting under the Supreme Council, and here's a discussion of amendments. Please add 15 seconds to Mrs. Timoshenko. Please, I beg you, your amendment, I give you my word. Mrs. Tymoshenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u121	So I want to make it very clear right now that whoever is voting for this medical reform is going to be personally responsible for the total reduction of medical personnel and the total reduction of hospitals. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u122	Please put amendment 180 to the vote. I'm sorry, the committee representative wants to comment. I'm asking Mrs. Sisoyenko to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u123	I want to point out that the essence of Bill 6327 is there's no way to close any hospital -- whether it's a utility or a state form of property. The central executive authority, which is to be authorized to pay for medical services for every patient in Ukraine, is obliged to make contractual relations with every medical facility in the area, village, city, and district. This is the essence of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u124	Thank you for explaining. And I ask you to vote in favour of amendment 180, which the committee rejected. [[17:40:11]] For-39 No correction supported. 39 votes, only voted for it. Donz. Now, it's edited, but the author of Sobolev's amendment insists on full sound. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u125	Look, this is an example of how the funds are starting to run and all the validation standards on this, which is just not yet created, central organ. My proposal, well, why do we have joint orders from the Ministry, which is responsible for everything, to approve this order along with the newly created central authority? Well, if we have a single organ, the Ministry, why are you translating this responsibility into someone else? I have an offer to make it clear that these regulations are approved by the Ministry and no other joint orders. Because while you agree with another central organ that hasn't yet been created, the patient can't stand it, and the doctor can't. So the request to vote in full, the ministry has confirmed, that's the norm that goes on. These are the keys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u126	Please, committee, Mrs. Sisoyenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u127	I would like to say, to the honourable speaker, that your amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. And I also stress once again that this bill authorizes a central executive authority to be created on the basis of a decision made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, i.e. it could be any ministry and department that already exists. That is to say, this bill defines only the authorized authority of the central executive branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u128	I now request that the hall be determined on amendment 185. I would stress that the committee considered it editorially, but the authors insist on the full. Please, please, let's vote. Let's vote, colleagues. 185 revisions, please see where you will be corrected. All right, now. [[17:42:28]] For-39 39 votes, out of the question. National Deputy Shurma, 188th Amendment. Microphone, please. Colleagues, I'm extending the session for another 15 minutes so that we can take a look at the amendments today. 188th, please, Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, I'd like to, and everyone who listens to the Supreme Council meeting, focus, you want to, take a line. Mrs. Irina Heratschenko, look how many people are in the hall. Today, Ukraine’s bill is passed. I'd like to put a vote on the presence of deputies in the hall. This is the first one. Secondly, I would like to point out that this bill goes against the articles of the Constitution: the 22nd, the 49th, the 64th. Today, those who vote in favour of the bill generally bear full responsibility to the Ukrainian people for the gross violation of the Constitution. And the motivation that needs to be changed today is not the motivation of a civilized state. So I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u130	Vote, please. We vote, please, Amendment 188 of the Shurma People's Deputies. The committee against this amendment. [[17:44:00]] For-27 Not supported. Next amendment, Sobolev, please. 196 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u131	Sobolje, Fatherland. It's about the same amendment that I insist that it be fixed in the law, we don't need any additional organs. This should be done by the Ministry of Health. And so everything about funding a budget and a state-guaranteed package should be fixed for a single body. Look, in the previous amendment, we voted on an abracadabra: "central authorities and a newly created central authority," we're going to confirm this order. Here again, why involve additional organs. If you want to approve it by the Ministry of Finance, write it down then, it's an existing body. Why create it? So I have a suggestion that I should not take the floor ten times, leaving the Ministry of Health alone as the body responsible for this, for the health policy itself. If you want additional organs, write down the name of the existing organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u132	Thank you, Your Honor. Please vote in favour of this amendment by the national MP Soboljev, who. 196th, which the committee rejected. [[17:45:41]] For-41 41 votes, not supported. Next, 198th. Mrs. Tymoshenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u133	Now I want to address everyone who listens to the Supreme Council. This so-called "medical reform" has been addressed by the medical professions of Ukraine, in fact, by the majority of people working in the health system. Moreover, the head of Mrs. Ola’s High Council of Ministers was removed from the report under this law because she, along with health professionals in our country, in effect called things in this reform by her names. Now they're making one of these reforms: they're taking out all the budgets -- rural, rural, urban, district, district -- all the money that's been allocated for health care, and they're taking it to one corrupt boiler downtown, and then they're going to give it to whoever they want. Money for all is certainly not enough, so it is the destruction of both the health - care network and the release of large numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u134	Thank you. Please comment from the committee, Mrs. Sisoyenko. Please, Mrs. Sisoineka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u135	I would like to point out that the chairman of the committee did not take part in the last meeting of the committee that considered the complete final edition of the second reading of Bill 6327. That's why the committee voted in favour of me reporting this bill on second reading. What's going on with closing hospitals and any changes that you've mentioned is not the draft of this bill. And I would like to point out that, despite the fact that the leadership of the unions against this bill, at the same time, many doctors, nurses, feldshers across Ukraine are waiting for changes, waiting for new laws to build the right conditions for their work, and they will not be influenced by the leadership of the unions, which are used every time in political manipulations by any political force.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u136	Please vote in favour of the amendment of 198 Mrs. Timoshenko. Please identify yourself. It's a committee against it. [[17:48:16]] For-27 27 votes, no change in the required number of votes. Next, 199th People's Deputy, Easy Correction. I'm asking you to turn Mr. Light on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u137	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The requirement of our team for medical reform is that there be access to services, quality of services, and that Ukrainians not be deprived of medical care. What is happening in the medical field today is no one at all. 97 percent of Ukrainians pay for medicine, and there is no free medicine, which is declared in the Constitution. But at the same time, the version of the so-called medical reform that is proposed does not solve this problem unless it is extremely important that it is not worked out. Where can I get the money? There's less to steal. For example, return money from offshore. When Timoshenko, Lazarenko, Dustenko, all their money taken off to the offshore will return to Ukraine, money will not be just for medicine, for education, for kindergartens, for jobs, for everything. When a respected colleague named Timoshenko says that there are no court decisions on her stolen funds along with Lazarus, read the U.S. courts decision, Julia Volodymyrna. Get the money out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to speak up on the amendments, not the names. Now, first of all, we vote, second of all. Dear colleagues, we are now voting for amendment number 199. We have to vote first. One hundred ninety. We'll go first. No, first there's the vote, then there's the line. 199 revisions. The infirmary is not here, so of course Timoshenko will be the replica. Please, 199 amendments, we vote. [[17:50:19.]] For-21 Not supported. Colleagues, if names are mentioned in the negative context of colleagues. Now. I'm asking you, I'm just going to interrupt if we're going to have negative speeches with colleagues. Now it's Mrs. Timoshenko's line. Please don't scream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u139	Dear friends, I just want to make it clear that the authorities are using so-called pocket money opposition to confront those who are fighting corruption in power today. It's absolutely, absolutely nothing strange about it, you know, such sellers have always been, who are ready for money, for preferences, for any other thing willing to do any order of power. That's why it's not surprising. I would like to say a few words, however, about this medical reform. My dear friends, the Fatherland Party, along with other deputies, passed an alternative bill of 7065, which provides for insurance medicine, guaranteed by the State of Services, and the preservation of a network of medical facilities. We insist on voting an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u140	Now we've got an amendment to the next number. Dear colleagues, we're working on the amendments. Kindness can be exchanged in the pools, and it can be done in the pools. Oleg, your bass doesn't sound like the authors of the amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. The national deputy is next. I'll give Mr. Speaker the lead now. 209 amendment, National Deputy Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u141	Sobolje, Fatherland. Look, we've come to a very important article. I think that's where the previous speakers try to end the meetings, that's not going to help, because no rotterdas plus they don't fund the appetites they have. Basically, it's a fix. I'm suggesting there can't be a reduction in the funding that we've set up. We don't do 7 percent anymore, we do 5. Look at the point of my amendment: after the words "decreasing the amount of expenditure at the expense of the state budget is not allowed." And the committee's version was "except for the cases established by law." Well, guys, I'll bring you dozens of these cases: someone wants to eat on energy, someone else's. And in fact, we're going to pay for Ahmtov and others. So, I'm sorry, it has to be very clear, there can't be any cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u142	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u143	Your amendment is rejected by the committee because it does not comply with rule 64 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly states that under military or state of emergency, certain restrictions on rights and freedoms may be imposed on the time frame of these restrictions. So this is the standard of the Constitution of Ukraine. Hence, your amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u144	I'm putting to the vote 209 amendments. She's been rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please identify yourself. [[17:54:18]] For-42 The decision is not taken. I'm going to give it to 210. Now I'm going to give both the 10th and the 14th. I'll tell you one important thing, colleagues. We had a very important debate today. And we came together to get to the issue of integrity on Thursday. But it's very important that we don't drag with the adjustments that we're looking at. And elections, yes. It's just hard to predict. But so far, we're not going high enough. 210 axles, two hours we're working. Knowing the experience of the judiciary, of the pension, of other reforms, of colleagues, I appeal very convincingly both to the right-holders and to the representative of the committee, only at the most painful and most important moments to insist on discussion. So that we can make the plan that we drew today go through it in time and go through it with dignity. 210th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, 4th. I'm glasses, I can't see. Anointing, right? I can't see anything. [[B in m in s a l in]] 201th, Litwin. 204, Anointed. 210th, Musius. Yeah? Please, Mr. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, it is clear that this law awaits all society, with its attention. It was because of the amendments I had proposed and had to sound that I had discussed and offered to the medical community, which I had met repeatedly in every area. So I'd like to explain why 201 amendments aren't included. That's the first one. And the second. I would ask that when the reporter refers to the Constitution, I quote all the articles relating to the health system. Amendment 201 of this content: Article 5 should be supplemented by the following: “The terms and arrangements for financing the provision of medical services and medical supplies at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine within the state guaranteed package are determined by law” and not by anyone. It's a very clear offer, it's an offer again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u146	I'll bet you vote on Amendment 201. The committee turned her down. Who supports Amendment 201, please vote. [[17:57:07]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 204, Anointed. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u147	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I didn't put this amendment to the vote before, because I was hoping that the previous authors of the amendments, which have the same content of the amendments, would still put them to the vote, would get the required number of votes. And I confirm that it's really impossible in this context, as the committee said, to write that except for cases established by law. Amendment 204, according to my authority, clears this association, except in cases established by law, because we allow in this case the legislator by any legislative act to limit the number of medical services guaranteed by the State. And when the author, speaking in the rostrum right now, says that this amendment is contrary to the rules of the Constitution, it's an outright lie, because the rules of the Constitution are the rules of direct action and can be applied at any time, and you don't have to make a separate law. If there is a need for a state to limit some kind of funding, it can be done in any field. And in this case, we need to adopt this amendment and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u148	I'm putting 204 people's deputy Amazanov to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:58:40]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 210th, Musi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u149	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! And 211th, which is then partially counted after it, too. Please give me a chance to speak. In fact, honourable Ukrainian people, I want to ask you to look, here was present from the very beginning of our law called the so-called so-called so-called so-called. A minister who tells television screens about a major global medical reform is meeting with MPs. Now there's practically an hour of this reformer, the pseudo-reformer, in the hall. What medical reform are we talking about when the chief executive and the apologist of this reform are not in the hall, how can we discuss it? Not enough, she was sitting on her phone. Now, as to the substance of this amendment, please pay attention. The committee’s proposed drafting of the title of this article narrows down guarantees that were much broader because they included medical devices in the first part and in the first reading. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u150	Mr. Musei, I'm going to call you to ethics. To insult a person who is not in the room right now, to my belief, is unethical, which cannot be answered. In addition to legislative work, we have to stick to basic ethical issues in everything. And there was Ulysses Suprun, now there's a deputy minister. And so they're willing to comment at any moment on any subject, we're having a professional discussion. And I'm asking you to remove words from our vocabulary that humiliate and insult people who are our colleagues, however. And I'm betting on confirmation, right, 210? I'm betting on confirmation of 210 revisions. The committee supported her and asked her to support her. Please vote. [[18:00:49]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 211th. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u151	I'm not going to waste time, of course, I understand, Mr. Head, that insulting missing people is not very ethical and not very correct, but when considering medical reform, these absent persons should be present in the hall. And you should probably ensure the presence of the first persons, if this fundamental, from their point of view, the reform is called. So this is also a question for the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, why there is no minister here now. Please place my application for confirmation because it takes more account of the rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u152	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u153	I would like to emphasize once again to the people's deputies who are now in the room and to all those who are watching and listening. And the text that we're discussing, the second-reading bill, is the committee's draft of the bill. That is, it was the people’s deputies of Ukraine who, by their rights, formed a new text to be voted on in this upper room. Therefore, the proper presence of either the U.S. minister or other executives is not a necessary basis for an effective consideration of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u154	So I'm voting on Musia's proposal to have 211 readjustments counted in full. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[18:02:36]] For-16 The decision is not taken. So I'm going to take the next 217. 220th. 216th. Double, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u155	The honourable reporter, just because the working group in the regulation had changed the name of the bill completely, was the essence of the bill. This amendment cannot be fully implemented and taken into account. Once again, 6327 is not a medical reform, it is the law of a single financial programme. Trade unions, medical personnel, the public doesn't support this law, because this law takes the last one, takes subsidies into the community, puts the whole medical field on its knees. But on the contrary, there is now Bill 7065, which is fully supported by the professions, the medical staff, the public, has gone through all the discussions, and is on a committee that the vast majority of people block. This is the "Fatherland" team, along with the Mantis, head of the committee, with other members of the other factions, passed the bill. The Fatherland faction demands that this bill be submitted immediately to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u156	So I'm betting on the vote. Do you insist on voting? For 216 revisions, the Dublin was fully accounted for, the committee considered it only partially. Whoever supports Dubil's proposal, please vote. [[18:04:21]] For-32 The decision is not taken. So 217th. Don't insist. 220th. Don't insist. 221st. Don't insist. 222th. Don't insist. 223th. 225th. 223, Musi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the previous statement that the system-wide comprehensive bill, which is indeed reform, is on the committee. And today, unfortunately, the vast majority and pseudo-position, which is now behind the rostrum, have blocked the consideration of this bill, unfortunately too. But with regard to this amendment, specifically. Article 7 provides for subjects and subjects of the State Health Guarantee Program. From here on out, there is also a decision, by the way, by the Supreme Council’s legal administration that the removed organs of local self - government, and they are responsible in accordance with this article proposed by the Committee, will be responsible for State guarantees in the area of health care. If medical subsidies are taken entirely from local governments, how can they take responsibility for this, please explain it to me. You've taken the subsidy, the central organ is created, and you're putting responsibility on it now. It's an affair.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u158	Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u159	Your amendment is rejected by the committee because, according to the theory of the rights of the subjects, their participants, including patients, are goods and material values, not people, as defined in your amendment. So please do not confuse material values and people and patients. So your amendment is rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u160	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 223 people's deputies Musia, and the committee rejected it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:06:32]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 226, 227. 226th Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u161	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that in Ukraine the high mortality rate is not just because we lack the funding of the medical sector. The high mortality rate is also due to the fact that people who come to hospitals come to hospitals with already run stages of disease that are virtually impossible to treat. Why is this happening? And it's happening because we've been chronically in the state over the past few years, the primary link of medicine, where we could conduct quality and normal diagnostics, the field and obstetric points, the infirmary, the clinics, it's chronically underfunded. And this, to my deep conviction, is one of the reasons why medicine today is present. Does this law allow us to redistribute? No! No! On the contrary, we are again focusing from the primary chain on a secondary, third chain of medicine. That's why my amendment is about to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u162	Please, 10 seconds. But I remind you, we don't add time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u163	Thank you. It is my amendment that applies in order to properly finance the primary chain through a clear distribution of powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u164	Thank you. So I am voting on amendment 296 of the Solovia People’s Deputy. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:08:29]] For-29 The decision is not taken. 229th. Don't insist. 230th. Don't insist. 231st. Don't insist. 238. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 233rd. Yes, it's taken into account editorially. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, here is one thing to note: this bill violates 22 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, 49th, 64th. In addition, there is a grave violation of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules. It's about the fact that this bill from its original appearance is 80 percent completely new, and more than that, it's a changed name. Under other circumstances, you will later run and seek the truth, and it will not be because it is established in its very essence. And now I have to tell you one more thing. When we speak of the full responsibility of the executive branch of authority, with all due respect, where is the so - called minister? If the bill has to be extended, someone has to do it. Where is it? If it's down, someone has to answer. Where is it? I ask that you provide a temporary minister of duty in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u166	You're insisting that your revision be fully accounted for, aren't you? I'm voting on Amendment 223. Schurm’s author insists that it be taken into account in its entirety. The committee considered it only partially. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[18:10:25]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 238. Don't insist. 244th. Don't insist. Two hundred. What's that? 239th. There you go. Storm, partially accounted for. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u167	I would like to remind and write in this paper: getting medical services and medical supplies of good quality, which are subject to full payment at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. Justification. It insists on the introduction of the term "full pay or 100 percent pay," it doesn't give you a field of manipulation. And it's not clear how to treat it, it's full, it's partial, it's something else. And I would like to point out that this bill is a gross violation of article 22 of the Constitution, article 49 of the Constitution, article 64 of the Constitution, article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. Once again, I stress that the personal responsibility for this bill lies with the so-called law. Minister, where is the so-called Minister. We've been looking at this bill for a reduced procedure at the first reading, now, look, it's not there at all, and then it's going to be there. Please provide it in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u168	Tutu is an expression, a non-parliamentary expression. Please use parliamentary language. So I'm voting on amendment 239. The author insists that it be taken into account in full. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[18:12:12]] For the 18th. 18, you don't make a decision. Colleagues, now we're getting to know where we're staying. 244th. Don't insist. 245th. Don't insist. 246. Don't insist. 248. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 247th. Should we consider it now or should we stop at it? Let's do this last 247. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u169	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law applies to the conduct of the electronic health system that the bill launches. And implementation is indeed a victory over bureaucratic gravity that has weighed down the lives of both patients and doctors for decades. However, by giving your personal data to the e-Health system, the patient should be confident of the preservation and protection of his confidential data. Unfortunately, the text does not fully guarantee such protection. In particular, it is noted that third parties, not health workers, have the right to access personal data, along with it. However, it is not determined which persons are included in this list and who will have access to the patient’s personal data if the patient loses his or her ability to do so. Such a failure in legislation cannot, not only violates the rights of adult and ineffective patients, but in general it can undermine trust in the electronic health system. My editorial suggests that this legal uncertainty be removed. Please be supportive. Personal data should be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u170	Your suggestion that it be fully supported? So I'm putting a motion on the vote to be fully supported by 247. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[18:13:59]] For-56 The decision is not taken. So the next thing we're going to stop at is 249ths, 250ths. Okay, we're gonna stop at it, and we're gonna start working on it. But, colleagues, there were two factions asking for a break. We're not ready to replace it with a performance. We have two minutes to complete. And I give you my word for it. Mrs. Irina, thank you very much. We'll start with 250 revisions tomorrow. And I'm asking you to be in the hall and the right-wing authors. And prepare for the continuation of our work. Now, let's get out of the faction. Who will act? Who will perform? Sobolen. Please, I'm going to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u171	The people under the parliament don't break up, they break up the tent camp. They demand our approval of the decisions we have come to make. We ask the Speaker of Parliament and all our colleagues to adopt a decision in accordance with the Rules on the need for continuous work until we have made all the new health regulations. This morning we have to conclude this important decision, take it, and move on to what people require of us -- lifting parliamentary integrity, new rules of election for the next parliament, and creating the Anti-Corruption Court. If people have enough power and time, and understanding that we need to stay under the Council, we who are elected here should have much more motivation to show people that we are working on them, not on our own personal interests, but on them. Asking the speaker to put it to a vote, according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-17-m1.u172	Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, we. We've got time for the session to be over. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's time. I still have no right to continue. Every Thursday I ask questions about the continuation of the session, every Thursday. And unfortunately, only once or two of us managed to do it. Time's up. Time's up. I can't continue the session, 18:15. Not while there was a session. Tomorrow morning, make an application, and the word will be given according to the law. And now I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. It's been a hard day, but I'm sure we've been through it worth it. I am convinced that we can and will be able to accept medical reform and move on to the issue of undoing the inviolability and voting positively. Colleagues, tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the hall to continue our work. Tomorrow at 10 a.m.
