ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u1	Good morning, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? I'm waiting, I'm waiting. Come in more intensely. They say you can. So you're ready to register? Let's register. [[10:04:09]] There are 338 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Eugene Sergiyovich Dejde and Paul Alexandrovich Rizanenka. [[Applause]] Welcome to our colleagues. And I would also like to say, colleagues, that the Council of the European Union has finally approved the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. This was the last procedure after approval in the national parliaments of the EU countries for the Association Agreement to enter into force. From now on, the deal will start working at full capacity from September 1st, 17th. It was a difficult and long road, 10 years of work on the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. I want to remind you the day that this hall was declared that the deal would not be signed. This led to the Dignity Revolution. And thank our European colleagues very much for the faith and support of Ukraine. Thank you to the people's deputies and to the government, and to all the Ukrainian people. It's our common victory, we'll win together. Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. Before giving the floor to the MPs, I would like to point out that today, as it was scheduled for the day, the issue of ratification is the first. But I'm going to ask all the national MPs again during the session to vote today to hold elections in local communities that we didn't get to yesterday. And if there's room will, there's a couple dozen decisions that need to be voted on technically. I'll go to the conference room and we'll put this in the agenda and vote, and I'll count on your support, just like the calendar for the fall. And I hope that we will be able to look into these questions today, too. But we will, of course, start with the traditional ratification, so today there are three in order of the day. And now, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to announce statements, messages and proposals from national MPs. I want to remind you not of the factions, but of the national MPs. And so I ask all the national MPs who are willing to make the announcement, the announcements, to prepare for the recording, and I ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech. Please. The first of Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. How the system is set up correctly. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u2	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u3	Alexia Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u4	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenk's Block. Dear colleagues, it is now time to sum up yesterday's score and put the dots above the "and." What did we see yesterday? The first conclusion that any person who has seen all of this in Parliament can make is that the President of Ukraine is absolutely right, who insists on eliminating such an institution as the parliamentary immunity in general, this feudal institution of distribution of Ukrainian citizens to masters and holopas. Yesterday we saw how hard it was for the gentlemen to put their colleague in the hands of justice, and yesterday we saw how afraid all of this was, and yesterday we saw that corporate solidarity can be very often overwhelming. And that's why we need to eliminate this institution as one to remove this burden from the souls of the people's deputies, and from the Ukrainian state, and from the Ukrainian society, that's the first conclusion we can make. The second conclusion. Everyone showed who was who yesterday. Those who radically promised to eliminate the parliamentary integrity and so radically abandoned their electorate. She promised to eliminate parliamentary integrity and to fight corruption on all the playgrounds and airs, and yesterday she did not give a single vote for any motion to remove parliamentary immunity. In all factions and groups, you can see who is who. The two factions, the Self-Help faction in full stock or almost full stock voted in favour of removing the inviolability and thank you to your colleagues, and the faction of the Peter Dustenk Block, which gave the majority of the votes of the faction for each submission. For every application that was made yesterday. All of it. No more groups and factions have been able to do so. I would like to draw your attention to the faction that the only faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that has ruled out a person who is suspected of being a member is the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block. We are not a court of law, we cannot say who is to blame, and who is not to blame. But until the court has spoken its word, we find it unacceptable that Borislav Rosenblatt was a member of the Petr Prashenko bloc. And we're the only faction that's made a responsible political decision, and everyone else is hiding behind the lines, but they don't. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in summary, yesterday Ukraine was democratic, Ukraine won with a score of 3:2. Yes, it's a difficult victory, yes, the siege remains on the soul, but still 3:2 is. Most submissions are supported today, justice can work, the Attorney General of Ukraine, who, for his cadence, has made more submissions than any other general prosecutor in the history of an independent Ukraine, can bring the matter to an end. I ask all voters to be very careful, and I thank everyone for their attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u5	Danielne Vladislav, speaking to Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia issued a statement, I would like to quote it, but I will do it with disgust, but I would like you to hear it. For today’s Kiev regime, the presence of many Ukrainian relatives, friends, and acquaintances in Russia is likely a real threat. It costs a lot of money to fight it, starting with the construction of the "great wall" of Yatsenuk, until the ban on Russian social networking. All of this was claimed yesterday by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the cynicism of Russian diplomacy was not borrowed, they were always lying and perverting. This has been the essence of Moscow diplomacy for centuries. Instead, Putin, Lavrov, and their supporters fought against Ukraine and the entire civilized world, with millions of Ukrainian citizens being killed, maimed, widowed, orphaned, forced to flee from war. The Kremlin, like the Third Reich, covers all its international crimes with the protection of the rights of abstract citizens who do not need or ask for such assistance. In fact, the aggressor brought destruction and murder upon Ukraine. That is why we are constantly implementing measures aimed at strengthening Ukraine's defence and national security and protecting against the aggressor. This is what prevents the enemy from destroying us, physically, politically, culturally, or mentally. To that end, we ban Russian singers from entering, which is why Russian social networks have been shut down, especially because of cybersecurity. And most importantly, we're going to continue building a reliable border with Russia, tomorrow they're going to vote for the change in the 2017 budget, the position of the People's Front, the allocation of 500 million dollars to build a wall and the full financing of construction every year. Now, note all those who have criticized these initiatives in defense of the aggressor. Among them are Europeans and so - called anti - corruption workers with elite housing. They are unfortunately criticizing the wall between the free Ukraine and the dictatorial regime of Putin, and they have been violently beaten by the closure of Russian social networks and have also been covered up by the interests of citizens. They were deliberately opposed to the language quotas on television and radio, and they did not want to take the money stolen by the Yanukovic gang in favor of the Ukrainian State. Yesterday you received official support from the Russian Ministry of Justice and personally from Lavrov, and now tell me, are you being sent from the Kremlin to feed all of Ukraine with this political garbage? Next: Yesterday, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, a dominant coalition removed the integrity of its deputies. This decision is evidence of serious positive changes in Ukraine. The People's Front voted in the first reading of the changes to the Constitution and is willing to generally praise the rules on the removal of parliamentary immunity. But what's surprising is that yesterday before the vote on removing the inviolability of a member of the People's Front was launched, the SAP leader's action, at the moment, on Facebook, issued a report on the charges against a member of the People's Front, Dennis Zenzersky. No one from the People's Front will hide behind the inviolability.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u7	Please, 30 seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u8	I'm sorry, we voted yesterday in favour of removing the inviolability of our colleague Maxime Polakov, and in court, he will be able to prove his innocence. But I think it's a cynical political game to shake things up in order to appoint a parliamentary re-election that will lead to the President's election and destroy our state. Last year the situation was rocked, they failed, and this year we are going to make it. The People's Front will only stand on the stakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u9	Thank you. Lavrik Oleg Vasilovich, speaking to Jehor Sobolev. Are you going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u10	In the middle of the vote yesterday, I had a conversation with the guardian of the Supreme Council, one of the people who protects our peace. And he said it would be good if you made all these decisions quickly, and then there would be no disturbances, no protests, no threats to Parliament. Unfortunately, yesterday's test was not passed by all the people's deputies, society saw how many people in words are willing to start with themselves and how few people have really proved it. I have a big request for all voters, it will never stop until you start identifying who represents you and who dumps you. Yesterday, Ukraine received a name list of people who were ready to start with themselves and a list of people who kept and kept a circular message. It's very important that people take advantage of this list, that people understand, that neither the American president nor the Dutch government nor the Turkish sultan can fix the Ukrainian situation, that only the Ukrainian society can do that. And those people who think they're from the house, from Facebook, from the couch, they're going to fix things, they're going very, very badly wrong. Not to mention people who think they don't care and can sell votes. I'd like to address the voters of Edward Rosenblatt. You are the people who have the opportunity in the film to see what your representative does on your behalf in the Ukrainian Parliament. I'd like to ask you to meet, to meet together, to watch a film about the evidence found as a result of the Anti-Corruption Bureau investigation, together to discuss how to make sure that there's no more of that in your district or in Ukraine. It's about Parliament. Colleagues, we have one day of voting left, and we have a huge appeal to the speaker and to all of us to make two important decisions in that day that are the way out of today's situation. The first decision is the Law on the Limitation of Deputies of Intactity, including the Selection of Passports for a Deputies Suspected of Crimes, and the second is the Anti-Corruption Court Act. Today, there is no court in Ukraine that is willing to condemn a high - ranking man because the courts are equally dependent. And we can make decisions about creating an independent anti-corruption court. Just tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u11	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Bresück.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u12	Amore, the sea, ore, ree. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's Latin, my friend, it's Latin, it's not a foreign language. Love, tradition, words and actions are no longer a thing. If words don't work, nothing happens. Yesterday, part two-thirds of the MP Corps showed that words are more important to them than traditions of statehood, democracy and love of people, because they cover up the oligarchy regime, because they are actually vassals of this regime. But that's not what I want to talk about. I hope that Ukrainian citizens have seen this reality, which is not easy on the way from Egyptian land, the house of slavery to democracy, it is long and difficult. But what I want to say is that this Parliament doesn't want to go any further, it's preparing fairy tale bills to unify codes for a thousand pages, where there's a mass of oligarchate services. He prepares fairies, pseudo-democracy laws about the Constitutional Court, which will serve the oligarhat even more. He is preparing the adoption of the Fayké Reformation Law on the Pension Fund, a pension reform that no one has read. But a bill that has been most worked out, perhaps imperfect, but clearly conceptual and understandable, a bill that will benefit, perhaps for the first time in 25 years, people from health care, is a bill on medical reform, parliament is not going to vote and act. And this is a crime that is equivalent to yesterday's. We were getting ready yesterday. Hide yourself from responsibility, and today you abuse people’s health by your inaction. I call on all the factions, today their leaders come to the medical committee, make a committee work on a bill, make a deal, there's nothing to do, you've done everything for you, you're just breaking it. Tomorrow to be put in the Hall and alongside the Anti-Corruption Court and the law on removing immunity from the MPs or making it easier to remove the inviolability to vote. And this will be an action that will confirm your words of love for the Ukrainian people you speak to before the elections, and all you do is lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u13	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oksana Jurinec, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u14	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished voters, distinguished fellow MPs. Today, we are again addressing this question, which unites all of us. It doesn't matter what faction you're in, what political power you're in, but you're maintaining security in your country, you're supporting its development strategy, and you realize that's what's going on today. We're for a complex military education, we're for students who will be professionals in the future. We want an infantryman, an artilleryman, a tanker, and a bomb squad to learn together. We want the chosen course in this room to be kept up to nativity standards. And we realize that much depends on it. So we keep this topic on the pulse, we're not going to miss it, and no vacations, no other things can affect it. That's why we're going to be until this home-grown sword disappears over the threat of the destruction of a professional military education in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u15	In addition, war continues. And it is unfortunate that Parliament has avoided military issues, security and defence issues in this final week and, in particular, this applies to both genetic identification and the issue of humanitarian demining, and the issue of compensation to families of persons who have died since they have been released. We would very much like to see from all over Parliament those laws that are being considered by the Security Council on the reintegration of Donbas, we want to study them, we want to see, we want to complement our proposals, because we actually have to make those difficult decisions for our state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u16	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Marchenka. Please, Andrew Illenko, National Deputy. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u17	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, of course, yesterday's disgraceful circus in the Supreme Council, he asked firstly about the relevance of the existence in Ukraine of such a quality of parliamentaryism. Because what we saw yesterday was, of course, a corporate abuse, because, you know, it's not possible to do it again a hundred times, but you should. Before each election, candidates come to the MPs, political parties come, say the same thing, that they are against parliamentary integrity, that all should be equal before the law. It's been going on year after year, from the vocation of the vocation, it's been going on for decades. And then every time there's 200 excuses, why you can't do that right now. When an application is made to a specific MP, it can't be done either, because there are many reasons, it turns out. And that's how it goes on forever. So yesterday's situation was, of course, an absolute treaty, because even after the deputies were granted permission by the Supreme Council to bring criminal responsibility, they were not allowed to arrest and choose a precautionary measure. So in fact, they're still intact, or intact, and they're still intact. This Ukrainian know-how of the Supreme Council has happened since yesterday. And this was actually observed by Ukrainian society. Of course, it undermines trust not to, not just to specific parties, politicians. Unfortunately, it undermines trust in the institutions of the state, parliament as such, and it's very bad. And you know, there's now one simple mechanism to change this situation. There's a presidential bill that changes the constitution, but it's now in law, let's say, failure, it's dependent. Since two of the three articles to which he intends to make changes, they have already been changed by changes to justice in the part of justice to the Constitution. So they've actually become legally worthless, these changes. In order to get out of this situation, it is necessary to start this process again, quickly go through it, and then change to the Constitutions will be removed, intact. We, the representatives of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, urge all national MPs to come to our corner and sign who hasn't signed it, and then we will be able to get 150 signatures, start this process and actually meet that requirement of people who have been standing for decades, undoing the parliamentary integrity, the equality of all before the law. We believe that there should be not only parliamentary but also judicial, presidential, intrusiveness. But there's no question, we're ready even if it's only about MPs, because it's political responsibility. And as long as we don't have the responsibility of politicians in Ukraine for what we say, as long as there's total lies and manipulation, we don't have a healthy political culture, we don't have political responsibility, we don't have a healthy parliament that trusts the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u18	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u19	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian people, unfortunately, yesterday we forgot about a sad date that took place three years ago. On July 11, under Greenfield, a base camp of Ukrainian troops was formed to block the Ukrainian-Russian state border. At 4:30 p.m. from Russia on the 24th, 72nd, 29th Aeromobile Brigade, the State Border Service unit, a field hospital where, by the way, there was a fire from the Russian Federation. My point is, it was opened up with jet fire systems from the Russian Federation! In fact, the Russian Empire, the Russian fascists, began World War III. I'll be in touch with the head of our hall. I want to read the names of 36 Ukrainian soldiers who gave their lives after this war. Mrs. Speaker, please announce a moment of silence for these heroes. Vyhopor Vasili Igorovich is a junior sergeant, 24th; Disheng Marijan Miranovic is a junior sergeant; Koptun Vladimir Mikhailovich is a junior soldier; Kostov Yuri Mironovich is a junior sergeant; Luščik Viktor Fedorovich is a senior soldier; Dove Yuri Grigorovich is a senior soldier; Kovalik Vasili Volodirovich is a senior soldier; Kratko Roman Zinovyevich is a senior soldier; Kuntej Evgen Alexanderovich is a senior soldier; Berez Ivan-Vitaliy Volodirovich is a soldier; Boris Igorovich is a soldier; Vasili Petrovich is a soldier; Vylih Petrovic Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir is a soldier; Logan Michael Romanovic is a soldier; Misik Taras Igorovich is a soldier; Vosilovich is a soldier; Vyković is a soldier; Vosilovichilovic is a soldier; Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir is a soldier; Vilovich is a soldier; Vyković is a senior is a soldier; Vy – a soldier. Let the earth be a downpour to all Ukrainian soldiers by dying in the fight against Russian imperialism and Russian fascists for the independence of the Ukrainian independent state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. The important thing is that we remember that they gave their lives just so that we can adopt the laws that lead Ukraine to Europe, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u20	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u21	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm talking to the people's deputies, who are going to make the next decisions, and I'm going to ask them to save for the Constitution and for the law, and they're going to be consistent. On June 8, 2017, Law 6327, the so - called pseudoreform initiated by the Ministry of Health, was passed in this session hall. Why is there a pseudoreform? Because it has no bearing on changing the health system of Ukraine. Realizing that there have been false votes, realizing that the content of the law is unconstitutional and that it violates 49 articles of the Constitution, that the provisions proposed in this bill have already been considered twice before the Constitutional Court and recognized their anticonstitutionality, a working group has been set up. The working group tried to transform this law into a legislative field. What do we have today before the possible second reading vote? Again, there is a gross violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, 116 articles that say that proposals and amendments to the draft bill, which is being prepared for second reading, can only be submitted to the text of the bill that was voted on in the first reading. If you look at that bill that you're going to propose to the second reading, you're not going to find anything from what was voted in the hall, it's 80 percent replaced, and more than that, it's changed even the name. Now there are questions to everyone here that they really want, that they care about people so that they can get better medical care. 900 amendments can be made to a normal professional bill? Maybe we'll look at it the way we looked at it in a reduced procedure: the minister, two minutes and the speakers, two minutes. Today, this pseudo reform aims only at creating a new body, whose main function, think about it: budget management. This body will be a monopoly on budget allocations. It'll be another dining room. And for those of you who sit here a lot, there's going to be another one in the distribution. Why the Feed? But because it's predicted that more than 100 billion dollars will be allocated there, and that 100 billion dollars will only be 5 percent of the gross domestic product. Is this enough to provide a new form of health care? I'll tell you, we're told that we're offered an English model. The English model is 9 percent of the gross domestic product, which is 130 billion pounds. We're going to have 80 times less, the medic gets the first one, and then we're going to pay for it, and we can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u22	Thank you. So we still have the possibility of two performances, this is Opanasenko Semensi's performance and the next Chismar is handing out the Halasyuk – these are two final performances. Then we move on to the issues of order of the day. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u23	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! What happened yesterday with the vote taken off the inviolability means, sadly, one thing: The circle message continues to govern this room. You can say thousands of words about people's trust, you can promise people not to touch anything, but yesterday some of our people spit in people's eyes. What confidence can we continue to have in this Parliament? I'm listening to several of our colleagues' speeches today about important legislative initiatives. Tell me, we are on the verge of serious reforms in medical, pension and others today, but how can we talk about this after what happened yesterday? I think we can restore confidence in the Ukrainian Parliament by adopting two laws today. First. This is to consider and approve the Anticorruption Court Act. Because it's clear to everyone that in the general justice system, any case will be covered up, and the deputies here, in their own room, won't give up theirs, because a circular message is what brings them here. The other one. It's a bill on substantial restrictions on MP immunity under number 5487. And this vote doesn't require the Constitutional Court's conclusion, it doesn't need 300 votes, it needs to vote 226 votes, and it's going to be a normal European immunity tomorrow, because today, I repeat, it's being distributed not by 80 articles of the Constitution, but by a bunch of laws. This law will allow the regulatory committee to review the submission within one day, the Supreme Council, within three plenary days, to decide accordingly. This law aligns a deputy with ordinary citizens, and law enforcement authorities will be able to search, apprehend. And the next thing you know, it'll give you an opportunity after the proper submission that will come to the Supreme Council to ban the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy. And the last. This law needs everything, I repeat, 226 votes. We ask the Head of the Supreme Council to legislate the bill on restrictions on parliamentary immunity without delay today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u24	Chismar, he's giving the word to Halasjuk Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u25	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, will have a great professional festival of Metallurgy Day on Sunday. I want to welcome the famous Ukrainian metallurgy with this holiday in advance, but the entire Ukrainian Supreme Council has to welcome them, not just in words, but in adopting tomorrow's metallurgical law, which unfortunately President Poroshenko vetoed. Our committee has considered it, made proposals, and tomorrow must be strengthened by Parliament's decision on real, not nominal, support for Ukrainian metallurgy. This should not be an exception, but the support of the Ukrainian industry should become the rule of our Supreme Council. We have to criminalize the smuggling of roundwood forests so that the raw materials don't go abroad, they're finished. We have to support our aircraft construction, and a number of bills are in Parliament. We finally have to adopt an industrial reform package that envisions a set of conditions that will allow the Ukrainian industry not only to the level it was, but to the modern European level. This industrial reform package includes industrial parks that provide attractive conditions for new production in Ukraine to create new jobs in Ukraine, so that taxes are paid in Ukraine rather than offshore. This industrial reform package provides for exemption from the import moment of import of manufacturing equipment for all sectors of the Ukrainian industry. The three-year import VAT schedule for all Ukrainian investors who invest in the real economy, not in speculation, does not spend money offshore. We need to remove all investment barriers so that new factories and jobs can be built in Ukraine. Yesterday, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship agreed, recommended that the Supreme Council adopt a qualitatively new model of joining engineering networks. In order to build a new factory, a new agrarian object, and so on, so that he does not become engrossed in the monopolies ’ dealings with a monopolist when a monopolist robs them. First, he makes objects build, presents, then makes them pay bribes to be used, and then he takes on an investment fee at the rate. We have to stop this disgraceful robbery by the monopolies of the Ukrainian industry and the real sector of the economy. These are laws that need to be adopted immediately, and then this will allow all other reforms to be implemented successfully, because today what the government is proposing: pension reform, medical reform, educational reform, without an industrially strong foundation, is pure propaganda. Because these reforms are aimed at only one budget economy. And without money, you can't do a good job, you need huge resources for medicine, you need education, you can only take these resources for science in the Ukrainian industry. Please support this position of the Radical Party faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u26	Colleagues, time spent for performances, are exhausted. But there were two petitions for recesses. One from "Radical Party" and "self-help", the other from two groups. I'm giving a performance from Radital Party and Self-Help to Laszko, and then Yatzenka, right, will be performing? Jacenko, good, and then Anton Yatzenko. And, colleagues, in five minutes we're going to the vote. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u27	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear Ukrainians! Our team and I, as the leader of our team, are addressing you. Yesterday, at the initiative of our team, there was a parliamentary vote on a well-founded and well-founded motion to remove parliamentary integrity. We did not support those who were falsified especially with regard to our colleague Andrew Lozov. But I want you to know the exact position of our team. We are in favour of abolishing the parliamentary integrity, the judicial integrity and the establishment of mechanisms for the responsibility of authority. We support the initiative of the President of Ukraine, with whom he takes the lead before the next election. Because we usually have large-scale initiatives only before elections, when there's nothing to say when people don't have jobs, wages, the President is going to cancel the MP's immunity. Dear Peter Alexiovich! We support your proposal and our proposal, thank you for supporting it, for lifting the parliamentary integrity. But at the same time, Mr. President, Maidan stood not only for the removal of parliamentary immunity, but also for the imposition of the responsibility of the President of Ukraine. Finally, at 26 years of independence of Ukraine, we believe that we must comply with the Constitution and adopt the law on the procedure of impeachment of the President of Ukraine, the law on temporary commissions of the Supreme Council. In order for Parliament to have real instruments of parliamentary control. And in order for the President who commits a violation of the law to be drawn in accordance with the law and the requirements of the Constitution. That's why I urge the coalition factions to show political will, to immediately bring to Parliament the Law, which we registered in November 2015, the "On the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine", the "On the Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" and the abolition of parliamentary immunity. Our faction unanimously votes in favour of all three laws, and I am convinced that every Ukrainian will support this in order for both the President and the judges and the deputies to be under control, accountable and responsible. What does the President want today? He is taking the initiative to abolish parliamentary immunity with one goal: to control Parliament in order to make Parliament weak, dependent and manipulated. That is why we demand that the MP's immunity and impeachment procedure of the President be lifted. Finally, yesterday the SAP violated criminal conduct against Attorney General Lucenk for an illegal declaration, an illegal enrichment. We demand the removal of Lucenck from the post of Henprocuror while investigating this corruption case against Attorney General Lucenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u28	Anton Yatzenko is invited to attend. In three minutes, let's move on to the agenda, please, everyone, to take up their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u29	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the following. Tomorrow we will consider the changes to the State Budget Act for this year, and it was highly desirable that among the 27 billion, if I am not mistaken, we find funds for such things as health care. In particular, 94 children today need treatment abroad. And here I was talking to C.O. yesterday. Minister of Health Mrs. Suprun. She says that three children have already died because of a lack of funds. The next is joint prosthetics. There's a lot of majors, and we all see people turning and being bedridden for years. The next one is cohlear implantation. Who doesn't know, I'll remind you, when deaf kids have to be treated, D.C.P., etc. And so I personally, together with my colleagues, all of them have applied, and I would very much like them to be taken into account at the budgetary committee today. I am addressing absolutely all the deputies, especially those who are members of the Committee on Budgets and those who have a bearing on medicine, and I ask that you come to the Committee as well. Guys, let's support this, because we find anything other than medicine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u30	Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to the agenda. And today, traditionally, we have the first issue of ratification. And I'm going to ask my colleagues to consider the proposal to consider ratifications for a reduced procedure. And I'm going to ask for support in the hall so that this proposal is supported. The first is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Operational and Strategic Cooperation, No. 0125. 52. 0152. And my colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs and I'm asking you to support the proposal for a review of the draft law on short-term ratification. Will you support me? Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the review of the short-term ratification. Let's be organized and responsible for that. Let's vote! [[10:47:38]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Thank you for your support. And the report invites the Deputy Minister of Interior, Troyan Vadim Anatoliyovich. Mr. Wadim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u31	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office. It gives us the potential for strategic cooperation and operational intervention in criminal matters between States. What does that mean? This means that this bill can allow us to speedily communicate information in criminal conduct, to participate in joint efforts to develop organized criminal groups or migrants that are moving towards. through Ukraine to Europe, to establish the location of persons involved in crimes, thieves in the law, criminal authorities and people who are wanted, hiding from Ukraine in Europe or being searched by European states in Ukraine. Also create international, particularly joint investigation teams. Please support this bill, it has historical significance for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u32	Heroim Slava! Thank you. A member of the Committee on European Integration, Najem Mustafa Massi, is invited to participate in the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u33	The Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Operational and Strategic Cooperation and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be accepted as a whole, with observations which were made by the General Scientific and Expert Office for the State Bureau of Investigation, which will be incorporated into this agreement after the creation of the DBR and. This will be created not by a separate law but by additions to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u36	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Of course, we support ratification. Dana, the collaboration that's been going on for a long time, it's actually an update on the document. And first of all, I would like to point out such an interesting thing that this document, unfortunately, does not stand and will not stand for the name "State Bureau of Investigation," because the State Bureau of Investigation, although we voted with you almost a year ago for this law, has not been created to date. To date, the State Bureau of Investigation is actually simulating a competition, attracting a completely controlled president to a person who, in principle, would mean that this law enforcement body, which was supposed to become over everything and control, including the messieral that today is in law enforcement, will be the same, and will become part of the circular message that we have and observe today, to the great regret. And in general, everything that's going on today, look, there aren't half the people's deputies in this room. Wednesday, at some point we're only looking at ratifications. We're looking at them because there's no will in this room and there's no vote for real reform. And the Self-Help faction still expects the political will to come to a decision, especially on the anti-corruption court. And then people won't have any questions about whether or not to take pictures of intactities, and they won't worry that these people, who even took off the touch from them, will not be punished. And the second question is a question that has been raised here for an hour by different national MPs. Enter into the hall, let's see, instead of unnecessary or not important, I'd say ratifications of the Law on Touchings, which suggested "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u37	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich of the Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u38	Good afternoon. Lubinets, majority electoral district number 60, Donetsk district, faction of Peter Dustenka. Well, I'd like to correct my previous colleague and say that ratification is really important. Sadly, they are carried only on Wednesday because our colleagues do not consider it necessary to walk on Wednesdays. But the whole room is united with regard to the adoption of ratifications. For my part, I would like to say that this ratification, which is really very important, is important for the technical cooperation of our National Police Department in cooperation with its colleagues from other countries. So I want to take this opportunity to get everyone involved in a positive vote, and I want to thank the management of the National Police in the Donetsk Region for their work, particularly in the Volnova region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u39	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, and I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. Both the heads of factions and the Supreme Council Secretariat please invite all the deputies to the Hall, in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. And now I'm inviting you from the "Opposition Block" Schuffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I support the previous speaker, who pointed out that there is no State Bureau of Investigation in the law, which we hear so much about, but we can't see at all. And by the way, I can't help but mention yesterday about the fact that this law might touch our individual colleagues, and it was said that most of the biggest factions voted, so it's not true. Most indeed were, but it was these 50-60 votes that did not vote yesterday, and made it impossible to separate votes. So speak the truth and do not deceive people. I stand for us to tell people the truth, and my little experience in Parliament shows that it is always the authorities and those around the authorities who demand the removal of the inviolability, and as soon as the vote comes to pass, the issue is settled. We have to be as good as possible and tell people what we have. The Institute of Intactness is not only in Ukraine, it is in Europe as a whole, but cannot be abused. And I'd like to use, again, if we're talking about changes to the Constitution, to say that maybe it's time to destroy the dualism that exists in power today. As one of the coauthors of the changes to the Constitution that are in force today, I honestly did not think that even the remainder of the power vested in the President could distort power so much and create a real duo, and again make foolish prime ministers and wise presidents. We have to be determined to change the Constitution and eventually establish parliamentaryism in our country, as is the case with our Ukrainian Cossack traditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u41	My colleagues, I haven't spoken to you about the People's Front. And the faction's head is asking for the word from the People's Front. Maxim Burbak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u42	Good afternoon! The People's Front will support the ratification of this agreement if the factions that are already united in the opposition, Self-Help and the former regions of the Environment don't need ratification, it's irrelevant, it's important that the country needs to be reformed. Vote for the budget. Vote for a budget that we put 5 percent of GDP on our national security and defense. Because you can only drive through the Kremlin's "darks" about the fact that the wall doesn't have to be built, you don't have to build engineering equipment on the border. Instead, we see the MMS statements that point to the point. Your number of performances. It's different. I would like to remind the previous speaker who is here talking about the stupid prime ministers and the wise president. They had already chosen one wise president who had fled and robbed our country. It's different. I want to remind you that for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, the coalition supported the removal of the integrity of the faction members that this coalition is doing, it's the People's Front and the BPP. We're sure our colleagues are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u43	30 seconds. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u44	We are confident that our colleagues will be able to do so in court without inviolability. But I want to go to this room again. Ladies and gentlemen! First reading. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u45	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u46	On the first reading, the People's Front faction supported changes to the Constitution on integrity and ready to vote in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u47	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Which one of you? From Self-Help, Egor Sobolev, please. One minute. And, colleagues, please come into the hall. We are not enough to make a positive decision. This is a responsible ratification. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please, one minute, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u48	We have a request for all representatives of the People's Front. You don't have to think people are idiots. There is no need for words behind which there is nothing but lies. The representatives of the Party of the Regions and its current thugs yesterday covered up your deputies, as did you, accused of illegal enrichment, accused of corruption crimes. A huge request is not to manipulate Parliament’s important task of distributing taxpayers’ money on behalf of taxpayers. Self-help voted and will vote in favour of all good decisions, but it will always be against this distribution if corruption is behind it. And the last. People can't be fooled; don't take part in this in person.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u49	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask you to get as close to your voting stations as possible to the cards. Stay out of the hall, back in the hall. So I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Operational and Strategic Cooperation (0152) as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. An important international agreement. Please support everyone, we vote. Please be supportive. [[11:00:27]] For 234 Decision taken. Next we have the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 6149). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:01:16]] For-173 Decision taken. The first one is invited to the report by the deputy minister of the justice of Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u50	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Bill 6149 is aimed at implementing the Ukrainian criminal and procedural legislation of the provisions of the Third and Fourth Protocols to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders of 1957. The protocols themselves were ratified by the Supreme Council on June 7. But in order for them to be implemented and act in the Ukrainian legal field, changes to the Criminal Procedure Code are needed. Chapter 44, which provides for the extradition of persons who have committed criminal offences, has been amended in particular. The most important change is an entirely new presentation of article 588, "The simplified order of extradition of persons from Ukraine", which provides that it is unnecessary to wait for a request from another state to begin a procedure when there is the consent of the detained person and the State of Ukraine. Thus extradition can actually take place in a much shorter time when it has the interest of the State and of the individual. You don't have to wait for a request, you shorten the duration of a person's stay under temporary arrest, an extradition arrest. In this way, we are better able to cooperate with those who are looking for crime and economically budget. It is further clarified that these protocols have led to more modern State cooperation in extradition, simplified requirements, clarified positions on the passage of limitation periods of responsibility, the application of special rules and other regulations. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u51	Thank you. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Law Enforcement and Protection of Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Mr. Mikolo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u52	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! A law enforcement committee has considered a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (Registration No. 6149), submitted by the President of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend a series of articles in chapter 44, "The extradition of persons who have committed criminal offences, extradition of the criminal process of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure." Amendments aimed at implementing Ukraine's legislation and the provisions of the Third and Fourth Additional Protocols to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders and Improving the existing extradition procedure from Ukraine for offenders sought by the competent authorities of a foreign State to investigate a criminal case or to execute a sentence. In the case of the adoption of the law, a person will be entitled to request a simplified procedure and issuance immediately after being held in connection with an international search without waiting for a formal request for extradition. This will allow you to shorten the duration of such a person's stay under guard in Ukraine for the purpose of extradition to another state and to bring the practice of applying extradition to a modern European level. In doing so, article 588 of the draft stipulates that a simplified order of extradition does not apply in the event of a person being brought to criminal liability or punishment in the territory of the country, if there is reason to believe that the extradition may conflict with the interests of protecting Ukraine’s national security or that the person sought is a citizen of Ukraine. The members of the committee have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on a basis, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council is of the same opinion, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u53	Thank you. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. You're doing great today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u54	Good afternoon, again. I ask for support for this bill, which provides for the improvement of the existing extradition procedure from Ukraine for criminals sought by the competent authorities of a foreign state. Most importantly, this ratification will allow this procedure to be simplified as much as possible so as not to create any regulatory obstacles and to issue criminals to other foreign nations as quickly as possible. So on the next day, I urge the people’s deputies to come to the session hall on Wednesday, to consider the bills, and now to unite and vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u55	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u56	Dear Ukrainian people, fellow countrymen! Of course, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska will support this ratification, because we have been speaking out and we are consistently engaged in cooperation, especially in the legal field, with the entire civilized world and the queen in question as well. But I would really like to be back by yesterday. Some of my colleagues here say that we're different because they're in favor of cancelling the inviolability and that's why they're voting for all of the Attorney General's applications. Yes, dear colleagues, we are different. It's different, because me and our team will protect you when you're being brought up without a reason. That's why me and my buddies, last night, faction colleagues, voted with red buttons for two pitches. For those charges that are forged by the Attorney General. I'm not ashamed of it, I'm proud of it. I'm proud and I'll be proud. And it's completely incomprehensible to me when my dear colleague and brother, Andri Bielecki, voted in favour of removing the inviolability of Andri Lozov. The man who pulled him out of prison in 2014 is not clear to me? I don't understand it, and I'll never understand it. And yes, we're protecting Parliamentarianism and taking away the inviolability of all of them. And I would like to address the distinguished Yuri Vitaliovich, write a statement and leave the Attorney General's office in the course of the investigation conducted by the NABU and the SAP. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u57	Fedoruk Mikola Trohimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u59	Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u60	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. An extremely important bill of amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code and our faction will support it and vote. But, dear colleagues, there was a lot of talk yesterday about the MP's intrusiveness in general, about everyone's promise of filming it. Much has been said about the removal of parliamentary immunity, especially today much has been said about it. But, dear fellows, all these trials, all these procedures, it's not worth a damn unless we're through with court reform. And I remind you that the formation of the new Supreme Court is coming to an end in the coming weeks, but it will only be on paper, because we have in the Courts and Court Status Act it says that by the time we adopt the amendments to the new procedural codes, the old Supreme Court is still working, the old higher specialized courts, which we have been trying to eliminate for so long. And we have a little bit left, literally one step left. But without taking this step, we will not complete the reform of the court, and this step is to make changes to procedural legislation. And by amending the Procedural Code now, let's think about what's left of us one day is tomorrow, one day to make changes to procedural legislation in order to form a new Supreme Court, in order to eliminate the higher specialized courts, in order to ensure that the integrity taken out here in the Supreme Council is dealt with fairly by the courts, including the Supreme Court, and a just and legitimate decision has been taken. And without tomorrow's vote for the procedural codes, that's not gonna happen. So when we talk about removing the inviolability of justice, we must not forget that we must take real steps to do so and vote tomorrow for changes to procedural legislation. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u61	Thank you. There will be a closing statement now, and I ask you to invite all the deputies to the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And now the word is given to Captain Oleni Sergiyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u62	Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. I'm so for my colleagues to understand what they're going to vote for. We've already ratified, we're already voting for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. It's such a small trailer. And I emphasize this again, and you don't fool people into thinking that there are less than half of the members of the National Deputies in the room, that we are actually hiding and trying to show some activity that doesn't really exist, that there is no benefit to people, that there are no steps that they expected from this Supreme Council. So, colleagues, I understand that it's scary. Scary for all of us, people are human. I understand that intactness, filming and so forth is a great experience. But, friends, if you knew that you would leave this room and go to a fair court where you could protect yourself, you would not be afraid. And you're afraid because you realize that you haven't built this fair trial in three years, you haven't taken any steps to build it. You're afraid because you know there's a circular message here that each of you is actually a hostage, including the President, including the prosecutor's office, including the courts. So let us make better decisions that can lead you out of this circle. And this is a removal of the inviolability, a bill that. Self-help has been talking about it for the third month now, and it's the Anti-Corruption Court Act, which will finally put the corrupts, including the prosecution system, including the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u63	So the discussion is over, and we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take your seats. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. Please come in. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the third Additional Protocol and the fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 6149) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:14:54]] For 209 I'll put it back, colleagues, but I'm very much asking you to invite people's deputies and take places during the vote, not to have political discussions during the vote, but to vote. Now I'm going to make a return offer. But I'm asking everyone to keep busy, not to go out, not to go out, not to go into the hall. So, can we vote? I propose to go back to draft Law 6149. Every vote matters, please vote, please support. Vote, please support, colleagues. [[11:16:19]] For 217 Irina Heratschenko is here. There will be voices. I'll be right back. I'm asking you to mobilize. I'm asking you to take your place during the vote. Please prepare yourself for making decisions and taking up jobs. I put to the vote and I ask you carefully, every vote matters. So I'm making an offer. Heads of factions, I very much ask you to help mobilize all deputies. I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 6149. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, vote. [[11:17:35]] For 221 We've got one more, I'll put it again. If there are no votes, the law will be rejected. I see you're here. The Committee on Budgets is good. Ivanchuk's fine. The question is, the votes will be. So we have now, I'm going to put it again, this is going to be the last attempt. If there are no votes, the draft law will be rejected. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I will no longer urge the deputies to take up jobs. I put it to a vote, and I ask everyone to take part in the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 6149. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:19:05]] For 234 Decision taken. And now I'm putting Bill 6149 on the ground. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. It's a decision to make, everyone, please. We vote on the basis of 6149. [[11:19:33]] For 241 Decision taken. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. This is a draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent excessive pressure on State-supervised (control) persons to comply with labour and employment legislation (No. 6489). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[11:20:18]] For 181 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u64	Thank you. And the word for the report of this bill is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Alexia Prashenko. Please, Mr. Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Since 2017, surveillance, enforcement and employment measures have been stepped up. And this activation has revealed a number of problems in existing legislation. They cause severe dissatisfaction, hindering the development of businesses in Ukraine, especially small and medium-sized businesses. The increase in compliance checks creates unnecessary obstacles for entrepreneurs. And the biggest problem is that most of these tests are either double or groundless or groundless. Through the analysis of these problems, our working group found the biggest ones in need of immediate resolution. First of all, it is a duplication of powers to carry out public oversight measures to enforce legislation on employment and employment at the same time in public authorities and local governments. Second, it's the arbitrary treatment of State-supervised authorities of the notion of barriers to testing and the lack of clear terminology that actually makes entrepreneurs vulnerable to testing. Thirdly, there is no legislative definition of the periods within which financial penalties may be imposed for violations of labour and employment legislation. Fourth, there is no responsibility for making unfounded complaints. Our team together -- our working group, together with the experts of the USAID LEV program, has actually developed a bill that can solve these problems. I am pleased that all the factions of Parliament have joined the co-authorship of this bill. So I would ask everyone to support this bill today and to help develop businesses in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Ms. Ludmila Denisova. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u67	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions reviewed the bill on June 21. The bill proposes to define the concept of "to create obstacles to public oversight (control) or to their officials in the exercise of State control (control) measures". The authority of local self - government authorities to carry out checks for enforcement of labour laws and employment is being clarified. Establish the administrative responsibility of officials of the local self-government authorities to submit to the Ukrainian State Inspectorate for the work of unfounded complaints of violations of the employer’s legislation on employment and employment. Foresee, if obstacles are created by the employer, this should be clarified in the act and the description of this inaction. Define limits for imposing financial sanctions for violations of labour legislation. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee stressed the need to improve the order of implementation. and supported the bill. In particular, members of the committee pointed out the need for preventive rather than punitive measures to influence the owners in the case of infringements. The parties to the social dialogue also supported the bill: both employers and trade unions. It refines and separates these standards that we have adopted in front of the ILO 81 Convention. That's why we're proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u68	Thank you, dear colleague. Dear colleagues, we now have to sign up for discussion under the Rules. I'm asking the factions to sign up. Next: the department has a comment on this bill, we'll give it one minute to speak after the discussion and we'll make a decision. The only thing I want to point out is that it's only about first reading, just voting on the law as a basis. Please, National Deputy Amelchenko. I'd like to have a word with you. Aah! He gives the word to Mr. Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u69	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u70	Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina! Dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party faction supports this bill, like all laws that protect Ukrainian entrepreneurs, to create conditions for them when they do not have to be bribed when they do not have to be dealt with by a penal state machine. The task of the public oversight and control system is not to fine any entrepreneur and impose other sanctions, but to create such conditions that even if this error is found, the entrepreneur corrects it, ensures that the law is enforced, and it is not a penal function. So that's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out that this is certainly an important law that is anti-crisis in nature that corrects the disadvantages that exist today in legislation. But we today are not critical enough to act only in the course of such crisis. Today we need to create such competitive advantages that our country will distinguish between our countries of the neighbours of Poland, Turkey, Belarus, Slovakia and others. Countries that have very strong tax incentives and preferences for national manufacturers and foreign investors who create new productions in their territories. Countries that all have export credit agencies and spend credit resources on their producers, guarantee and secure export contracts, help to go to foreign markets, countries that provide subsidies when connected to energy networks only to create new productions, countries that have generally forgotten what tax and other corruption is. So today we need to adopt this law and immediately adopt an industrial reform package, remove artificial taxes from industrial investments, and introduce tax incentives for those who create new productions and jobs. And the government needs to finally create an export credit agency, which they didn't do in violation of the direct rules of the Export Credit Agency Act, two weeks ago it was supposed to be created. I am asking the Prime Minister to restore the legality of the establishment of an export credit agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, National Deputy Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u73	Please, Semenhe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u74	Please pass on the word to Mr. Semensi. Our respectable colleague will come out of the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, this legislative initiative is really necessary. And that's the answer to actually Drakovnov's fines, or in other words, the introduction of State terrorism in small and medium-sized businesses. We will support in the first reading. However, we have a series of comments that should be removed between the first and the second readings. First. The bill does not provide for a reduction in fines for non-checking. And there's a system of dragon fines implemented by the government, supported by the Supreme Council. The other one. There is no time and no procedure to warn the first action. Next thing I want to say. Not only is this legislative initiative registered, there are a number of other related bills. And I have a question for the Supreme Council, a profile committee. Because I don't want to think that the name Prašenko among the initiators gives priority to legislative initiatives. In particular, Bill 6087 was drafted by me and the national deputy Tetjana Ostrika. And we would like some of it to be included in the preparation for the second reading. In particular, our bill defines the list of documents required by the officer to carry out the check and the reasons for the pre-planned checks. There is no such standard in Bill 6489. Therefore, there is a risk that there will continue to be the practice of the additional reasons given by Kabmin for carrying out checks that do not comply with the Law on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. The other one. Our bill substantially reduces fines that prevent the bankruptcy of small businesses for which the current system of fines is a killer. The law should encourage business to come out of the shadows and pay white wages, but not kill them! The introduction of financial and legal responsibility should not become an income source of the budget. The budget has to be filled.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u76	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u77	So we ask you to support the bill in the first reading. To develop it along with other related laws to ensure that the law: (a) protects business, does not give unjustifiable powers to the government, or grounds for unplanned, unwarranted checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u78	Thank you for such a thorough comment, dear colleague. And please, it's from Mr. Melniczuk's Block of Peter Dust. John Melniczuk has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, a very important bill, and previous speakers have spoken about it, who understand the importance of the bill, and I stress that our faction will support the bill. I mean, here's the thing. Most of the deputies who are now in the hall and who are allowed to represent their interests, themselves from former entrepreneurs and myself, including myself. And I understand what testing is, I've been through it. Any MP who doesn't even have a business connection, he can clearly recall the references that are now being made to each of you by entrepreneurs about the excessive pressures or inactions they have in their constituencies. So any legislative initiative that seeks to enable entrepreneurs to work so that they can pay taxes in order to develop our state, because it is the private entrepreneur who is the main driving force for the development of the whole society and the development of the enterprise in our country. So thank you all very much for understanding. Please be supportive. A very important bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u80	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, we only vote as a basis, I emphasize. All the amendments, the proposal that I know is, they will be proposed, discussed and introduced during work, preparing for second reading. And that's why I'm convinced there's going to be a constructive discussion, and we're going to be able to make all the warnings about second reading. Now. Don't leave the hall! And now I'm just going to put the vote on the ground, and I'm going to ask everyone to back up, and in all the speeches of the national MPs, there was support for the bill, and I'm asking everyone to participate in the vote. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent excessive pressure on operators, public oversight, control, enforcement of labour and employment legislation (No. 6489) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support base 6489. Vote, please. [[11:34:15]] For 217 We didn't make it. Please arrive, please, the heads of the factions. I see. Please invite everyone into the hall. Colleagues, I'm giving you 30 seconds to invite MPs into the hall. Yes, we were invited to the Chamber of Deputies. 30 seconds have passed, and I will now make an offer to return to the draft Law 6489. We're voting, aren't we? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration of Bill 6489. Please vote and please support, we vote. [[11:36:19]] For 233 Decision taken. And I'm putting draft Law 6489 to the vote as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote and please support 6489 as a basis. Vote, please. [[11:36:49]] For 236 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we're going to have two draft decisions. We must do both our duty and the organization of the Council’s work, and the next two decisions are to hold parliamentary hearings. Without these decisions, we cannot plan parliamentary hearings. So I ask everyone now responsiblely to support the two subsequent decisions that are in order on the day-to-day, to plan our work for the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first is a draft decree on parliamentary hearings of young people in Ukraine on "Formation and implementation of State youth policy in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization" (No. 6491). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:37:58]] For 184 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on the Family of Youth Policy and Sports of Palatno Arthur Leonidovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u81	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Declaration on the General Principles of State Youth Policy in Ukraine and on the basis of the decisions of the Committee on Family, Youth Sports and Tourism of 17 May this year, me and the National Deputies of our Committee: Velikinim is presented with a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine, on "Formation and implementation of state youth policy in Ukraine under conditions of decentralization of power". Dear colleagues, one of the main objectives and process of decentralization is to create a comfortable environment for the lives of the inhabitants of the territorial communities. Therefore, the specified process is not possible without the quality development of youth policies in the respective areas. I believe that hearings will contribute to the development and implementation of State youth policy in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power by the executive authorities: local government bodies, public organisations, representatives of public institutions, youth social organizations. The aim of these hearings will be to develop and adopt recommendations from the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the formation and implementation of state youth policies in Ukraine, in conditions of decentralization and recognition of clear strategic orientations of public youth policy on solving a number of problems. First, youth employment; second, youth unemployment reduction; support for young people in social welfare; encouragement and support for young scientists; and promotion of healthy and safe lifestyles. In connection with the session of the MEP’s Parliament in early November 2017, we propose amendments to the draft decree to the hearing date from November 1 to November 15, 2017. Dear colleagues, please support the draft ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleague, according to the Rules, we do not have a co-reporter here, and I ask that you sign up for a discussion right now if there is a need for discussion. From the People's Front, National Deputy Veliczovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, please support this parliamentary hearing order of our committee. People's Front will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u84	Thank you. From the Peter Dust Block of Palamarczuk. Please, Palamarczuk. The national MP, Palamarczuk, conveys the word of Sporish. John Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u85	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Ladies and gentlemen. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The question of youth should always come first. And I think that we should unify the hall completely today in view of what, as the committee head has already said, we should do on November 1. So that our young people today from the great rostrum of the Supreme Council may declare themselves. And I don't think there's anything more important today, and we see that we're going to Europe and young people should be the first, the front, as we see in all of Europe. Therefore, it would be highly desirable to ensure that the necessary conditions for the development and implementation of young people are one of the main tasks of our nation. At the same time, in recent years, under the influence of reforms, the authority of local authorities has expanded considerably, as is the case now. They're the ones who can build the "young power" dialogue directly in place. And that's the chance we have to give young people, to strengthen this dialogue with society, to come up with a common strategy for Ukraine's development. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction will unanimously vote in favour, and I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u86	Thank you, Sir John Sporish. I'm sorry I put the wrong emphasis on your last name, I won't be wrong again. Please, now, National Deputy Rybchin of Fatherland. And I ask my colleagues to return to the hall, because in two minutes there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u87	Alexy Rybchin, "The Fatherland" faction. Request to pass the word to John Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u88	Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u89	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, our faction will support the bill on parliamentary hearings concerning youth policy. We always support all those initiatives that relate to the support of Ukrainian youths. But in order to understand how the state treats young people -- it's not checked with slogans, it's tested by numbers, so I, my fellow citizens, would like to say that there is no such low funding for youth policy as is happening in Ukraine in any country of the European Union or in any country of the European Union! We have young people's policies funded by the rest of the principle. In today’s budget of over 700 billion dollars, less than 20 million are allocated to all youth policies. Please tell me, what can you do with this? We have parliamentary hearings to be held on site. in conditions of decentralization. Twice during this session, we discussed the draft Law on the Establishment of Youth Centers, a sign of the quality of the Council of Europe. What did the session hall do? Because they put the issue of youth policy on Wednesday, when MPs usually walk poorly, frankly, in the session room, these bills fail. And youth centers are exactly the right places where young people from different backgrounds, where young people from different groups can gather, form projects and address issues related to youth policy development. So, honourable colleagues, if we want to talk about Parliament's support for youth policy, let's just say that the laws that directly address these issues, for example, the creation of youth centres, we're going to vote positively. Because then we won't believe it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u90	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u91	Then we will have no faith in young people or in Ukrainian society. And this project needs to be voted on, as I propose next year to put a substantial increase in funding for youth policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand we're done here. He's already passed the word to John Sporish from the BPP faction, so the BP quota is already exhausted. Mr. Sporish of the BP, your honor, the leader of the party. And now we're going to talk, more faithfully, about the vote. I ask my colleagues to return to the session room. Yes, I'm asking Semensi to give me the word "self-help." And, dear fellows, return to your jobs. Two minutes to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, today we are talking about young people as the future of our nation. I think the first thing the Supreme Council has to do is restore trust in young people and show that we don't cover up corruption and a circular message. So once again, I appeal to the Presidency of the Supreme Council to immediately put forward two bills: the First – 5487, on restrictions on parliamentary immunity; and the Anti-Corruption Court Act, a law that will set up a court outside the general justice system, a law that will allow justice to be restored in this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u94	Thank you, dear colleague Roman. In spite of the relevance of your speech, I should point out that according to the Rules we have to discuss exactly the topic that. And please, yes, we have the Radical Party, of course. One minute, please, Mr. Silantyev. Please. Dennis Silantiyev, I told you, Mr. Silantyev, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sure you all know that if we want to succeed in some matter, we all have to put our priorities in order. If we're talking about reforms today, if we're talking about the development of the country, who are these reforms and the development of the country? Young people. Young people today want to leave the country by 90 percent. Today we are on the verge of a humanitarian default. Therefore, the relevance of these parliamentary hearings can hardly be exaggerated. So I urge everyone to gather in the hall and vote for these parliamentary hearings to be held as soon as possible and then to make sure that they are implemented in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u96	Thank you. The discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the hall. It's a matter of organizing the work of the Supreme Council, but this is primarily about supporting youth policy in Ukraine. And I'm sure there should be a vote here regardless of political debates and political contradictions. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People in Ukraine on "Formation and Implementation of State Youth Policy in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization" (No. 6491) with a committee proposal to move them to November 15th. Yes, Arthur? On November 15th, yeah? With the committee's proposal from 1 to 15 November, please support the ruling as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:49:15.]] For 215 We couldn't make it. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please come into the hall. I urge everyone to take up their jobs. Please include the factions. There's no need for a return. We're just going to do it again because it's the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I ask everyone to take part in the vote. So, the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "Formation and Implementation of State Youth Policy", 6491. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Each voice has a weight. [[11:50:34]] For 231 Decision taken. And, colleagues, let's give very quickly and briefly another identical determination. Guys, we're staying here. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status and Problems of Financing Education and Science in Ukraine. These are also parliamentary hearings. So please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:51:12]] For 205 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u97	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I understand there's consolidation. But it's very simple. We had a meeting on March 15, our profile committee held, and we considered all the comments we received during the February 22, 2017 plenary. We've taken into account the corresponding changes in the state budget of Ukraine. And so we present a new consolidated proposal for the approval of parliamentary hearings. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I just want to pay attention to the following things. You can't build an effective system of education and science simply by cutting costs. Dear colleagues, we've been doing this to you for three years. The reaction of young people is very simple: they vote with their feet. So we have to divide these things. Financing should not be cut short. And we need to make the system effective. Unfortunately, the system did not work in 2016 when the National Fund for the Financing of Scientific Research was to be established. This year, I think he will. That's over 3 billion dollars. This means that young people will have access to financial resources for scientific research, for mobility, according to grants, grant access. So I'm asking you to vote in favour right now, and this will provide a stable funding for the educational and scientific sectors. And in that time, we will allow Kabmin and the Ministry of Education and Science profile to undertake appropriate reforms to create an effective system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u98	Thank you. Can we vote? No, it's not. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Please hold the recording. Kunicin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Kuril.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u100	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the Peter Prashenka faction will unquestionably support this decision and invite everyone to vote because it's about financing education. This is about all our children, our grandchildren, our loved ones, our loved ones, so we support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u102	Thank you. Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u103	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u104	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I address you personally as Head of the Supreme Council. We're taking a decision that you're going to have to sign. Andrew Volodymyrovich, at the 12th meeting of the Committee on Budgets, note what this decree says. I'm on a working committee. The project notes the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2017 on increasing expenditure on education and science. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine – for a billion 78 million dollars, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine – for 642 million dollars, the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for 336 million, the National Academy of Medical Sciences for 967 million, the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences for 9 million, the Academy of Legal Sciences for 18 million, and the Academy of Arts for 7 million, the Ministry of Defence for 17 (Science and Education). Andryu Volodymyrovich, we are now voting, now the Committee on Budget Changes meeting for the 2017 budget, you know what the discussions are going on there. What a controversy, and how is the redistribution of the funds of about 30 billion. Please: only we will vote, sign and pass on to the Committee for Investment in the Future. That's what Ukraine needs right now, science and education. Please. Thank you. And I'm asking you to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u105	Thank you. Final performance by the Radical Party Oleg Lazko. And in two minutes, there will be a vote. Please invite everyone to the hall. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u106	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Parliamentary Head Andri Parubay, on behalf of my team, we sincerely thank you for bringing these very important issues to Parliament today. The previous bill on youth policy, on the situation with young people, the current bill on the state of education. Because we consider many laws, but we do not consider key issues. What will be the country of the third millennium? How can we survive in this competitive global world? How can we avoid trapping the back but not just earning money, not just deciding money, small questions, raising a hundred dollars of pension or salary? How can we radically move forward? How can you create added value? How can millions of Ukrainians be provided with jobs and decent wages? These are the laws that should be considered in Parliament. And that's what we're looking at right now. Education, health, are key elements for the success of the Ukrainian nation. Because, as they say in the people, how sick and stupid you are, nobody needs you. We urge attention to the education and health of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u107	Thank you. It's a good tradition, to start by thanking the Head and Parliament, to spread them. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now and get ready to make a decision. Please invite a colleague who is in the towers, please invite him to the hall. And I would also like to ask you to take up your jobs from your bed. Don't let us go back. Because each return does not add authority to Parliament. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the bill of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine" No. 5540d, and I'm voting on the proposal as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote on all national MPs, regardless of factions and political views. Please be supportive. Let's vote 5540d as a base and as a whole. Please be supportive. [[11:58:49]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 11:59, it's actually 12:00. And according to the Rules, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. And I ask all the MPs at 12:30, at the end of the break, to arrive in the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u108	The deputies are invited to the hall to continue our work. Please invite the deputies to the hall, the time scheduled for the break, the fast spring, and the time to continue our work. Please. So we continue our work as a colleague. We have the next Law of Ukraine, 2210a. But we also have a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25.05.2017 on the adoption as a whole as a law of Bill 5678. According to the Rules, I have to immediately bring it up to date after the committee's decision, and it is not included in the agenda, the rejection order. Now there's an author in the room, a reporter by Sukhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanovich, and a co-rapporteur by Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich. And I, my colleagues, will now review the draft decision annulment order, and then we will move on to the next item in the agenda of the Ukrainian Law of 2210a. And we're going to the 5678-2/P project. I remind you, she doesn't need a vote, she's automatically following a reduced procedure. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sukhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanović. Turn on the microphone, Mr. Yuri will be out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u109	Deputies! May 21 was passed Law 5678 on protection of cultural heritage, and the law was passed as a whole. I believe that such laws are generally impossible in the first reading and in general. And then I made a statement of objection. True, the head of the Supreme Council did not hear it because there was a noise in the hall when I said just on the ground. And I registered an appropriate order to call off this vote. Why could this law not be passed? First, the Chief Expert Office stated that this law is completely inappropriate to accept, you know, the relevant laws, are appropriate court decisions and decisions, and that it is completely inappropriate. Moreover, the law itself has a number of errors that would have to be discussed and rejected before the second reading. In addition, there is a remark by the Ministry of Justice, which also disapproves of the bill. And we accepted it as a whole, and I realized that the MPs didn't even read it, because if they paid attention to the chief expert's remarks, they wouldn't accept it. So even individual deputies then came along and said that they had voted so recklessly. So I think that this law, which has already been passed is a law, should be brought back to the committee and can only be read first, as much as possible, even though I am against this law in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to this, and in general, we are now leaving, both pension reform and medical reform. So if we don't think about it, we're going to do what we're going to do with the elbows.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u110	I want to emphasize, there's going to be a co-report now, and then there's going to be speeches, and I'm going to give everyone a word, to everyone who wants to speak. I'm just stressing that we are now talking about cancelling the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, so that you can get a sense of the subject on which the discussion is now taking place in the hall. Now, before the report, I invite the head of the committee. First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u111	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! The committee considered a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25 May 2017 on the adoption of the Law of Law No. 5678 as a whole. Registration number of this project. Order 5678-P of 25.05. He was introduced by Ukrainian national deputy Yuri-Goddan Shuhevich. The procedure for revoking decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by regulation 48 of the Supreme Council Rules and, in particular, provides for the referral of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for a violation of the Rules, the submission of a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council with the simultaneous introduction of the relevant draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the transcript of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 25, during the consideration of the draft Law (registration number 5678), there were no statements or comments by national deputies regarding the violation of the Rules. And in particular, the national deputy Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich did not refer to the chairman for violation of the Rules, nor did he make a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council. On the other hand, the People's Deputy introduced a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of May 25 on the adoption as a whole of Bill No. 5678. On the ground, the MP comments on the content of the bill and notes that the bill has a lot of shortcomings, so he recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. According to article 48, part eight, of the Rules, the Committee adopted a conclusion on a project that suggested that the Supreme Council decide whether to accept it or not by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u112	Thank you. So, colleagues, now I'm asking you to do the recording: two for, two for, two against. And I ask all the factions of Parliament to take part in this discussion. Please record and sign up. From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Head! I'm asking the hall not to support this motion because I sometimes feel like we're reading with you and we understand completely different. This bill told us. It is designed to prevent the destruction, destruction, and loss of cultural heritage. And this bill told us just one thing that we refer to the categories of cultural monuments that objects that for some reason or other are not yet in the register, but that were accounted for until the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage was passed. That is why we are expanding in principle the circle of objects under the protection of the State. There is no other comment in this bill. There was a technical error where the numbering of items was confused, and we corrected that error from the voice, and in the end the text of this bill is all right. I want to tell you that the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine has addressed all of us and has asked for this bill to be supported because it is designed to ensure that our public space does not allow cultural monuments to disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u115	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich is passing on to Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, fellow countrymen! I want to draw your attention once again to the very important fact that happened yesterday. According to my statement, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office violated two criminal conducts, brought in the Single Register of Procurator-General Lucenk's unlawful declaration, unreliable information in the Attorney-General's declaration of Lucenk and the fact that it was an illegal enrichment. Attorney General Lucenka, who builds a white, plump angel, a great anti-corruption fighter, lives in a house 900 square meters, shaped for a test, a 75-year-old pensioner who lives in the Rhineland. Attorney General Lucenko did not identify this house as his property in an electronic declaration, he hid his assets. As a result, in connection with my appeal, the specialized anticorruption prosecutor’s office violated criminal conduct. At the same time, SAP's deputy attorney general, Nazar Holodnicki, is directly subordinated to Attorney General Lucenk, and it is therefore futile to hope that Deputy Attorney General Henprocuror will be able to conduct an impartial investigation into his boss, Attorney General Lucenk. We have, in fact, a colossal. In order to solve this problem, Attorney General Lucenko must be removed, removed from the office of Attorney General of Ukraine, during an anti-corruption investigation into his illegal enrichment and misinformation in his declaration. I appeal to Attorney General Lucenck or voluntarily during the investigation, to allow him to conduct an independent investigation into his activities, to release his office, or Parliament must decide and remove Lucenko from this office during an anti-corruption investigation. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u117	Oleg Valeriyovich, I'll give you 10 seconds. But I ask all speakers to speak on the topic that is currently being discussed, this is a direct norm of the Rules. And I ask you to speak on the subject that is being discussed. Please finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u118	The issue of combating corruption is an extremely important topic, and we must be sure that the person acting as Attorney General does not commit corruption crimes. The facts show the opposite.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u119	Now from the People's Front is Vasjunik and then to the Peter Prashenko Block of Ariev. Two minutes, please, Vassyunik and Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by lawyers, public activists, who are in charge of protecting the cultural heritage and who are asking to vote down Law 5678 as one that threatens the object of a cultural heritage, an explanation of why. In particular, the approved law proposes a new definition of “a cultural heritage. ” It is considered an object that is included in the State Register of Real Estate Monuments. But as of today, countless such objects are not included in the register, which may be the cause of their destruction. The same situation with national, national, cultural, architectural, archaeological, and so on. Fifty - six reserves are not part of the State Register. So, colleagues, let us support the rulings, correct the error, for such changes will only harm the cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Ariev. Turn on the microphone. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u122	Mr. Chairman, I wanted to say that, if we are already in compliance with the Rules, we are in full compliance with the Rules. Because the Rules clearly stipulate that the speeches of the national MPs should be in line with the stated topic of the bill. I understand that some people want to read lectures here, but these speeches by some of our colleagues remind us of, you know, thinking about the maniac about humanism. Because talking about someone having something, and living alone in a 900-square-meter house that's rented for a penny, flying on planes that are paid by a businessman named Roatt, who's connected with Fertash, and then talking about other people who've declared everything, well, sorry, it's just going beyond that, a lesson about moral purity in the lukewarm, I'm sorry. But I want to stress again. First of all, we have to follow the Rules. And I very much ask you, Your Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Andrew, you have an obligation, not a right, but an obligation, when it comes to a topic that is not related to the subject, you have to interrupt. Therefore, I would like to ask you to comply strictly with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u123	Thank you. Since I have been approached, colleagues, indeed, I have such a right, and, indeed, I have an obligation, to my conviction that there will be an opportunity for all thoughts to be heard in the hall. So one of my important positions from the very beginning was that under every law every faction has the right to speak. And, indeed, sometimes the faction does not always speak on the subject, as it is now and your performance was, not entirely on the subject. I can move on to the principle of stopping these speeches. Only I don't know if it's going to be adapted or not. Come on, colleagues. Come on, we have to try. If this hall is adapted, and I'm going to stop the performances, I can switch to this system. Let's just feel: sometimes when someone wants to speak, they take a minute to talk and speak on their subject. Yes, indeed, I sometimes close my eyes to this, realizing that a deputy might be able to do that. Let's try, I'm ready to move on. But then, colleagues, I will emphasize that this principle will be the same as everyone else, and I will have to subjectively determine where this line, subject, and not subject matter is. It's sometimes very narrow, this limit. So I have to determine this subjectively each time. Colleagues, I'm ready. Colleagues, pay attention. Colleagues, pay attention! I have an offer to discuss this. By the way, one of my initiatives that we've discussed together is to keep the format of parliamentary debates so that we can take a topic and exchange ideas. I have a proposal for us to vote now and then have a debate on this subject and give each faction two minutes each. Is that accepted? So we can talk about it. And I would like to stress, my fellow Members, if there's such a general position of all factions, I'm totally ready for this, this format to go over and stop the performances if they're not topical. Do we agree that after the vote, we should hold a debate on this subject? All right, no objections in the hall? We exchange thoughts, all factions for two minutes. Now let's finish our consideration of the subject, and then I'll propose a discussion of the subject. It's a deal, isn't it? So now we're going to vote. And I want to remind you that I will now put to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25.05. The 17th year of adoption as a whole as the Law of Law 5678. It's a motion for a deflection order. I mean, whoever supports the Cultural Heritage Act doesn't vote; whoever thinks it's necessary to vote no, votes no. So I'm putting to the vote the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25.05. The 17th year of adoption as a whole as the Law of Law 5678. Number 5678. It's a show. Please take part in the vote and please vote. The committee proposes to determine how to vote. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Vote. [[12:57:15.]] For-60 The decision is not taken, the ruling is rejected. Now, colleagues, as I promised before, I am now Head's right to represent factions for two minutes on whether or not we are. As regards the rule of law, which stipulates that only a given bill may be involved in the discussion of the bill. If there's a general position of all factions, I'm willing to move on to a tough moment so that I don't let go of this bill. So let's start with the largest faction, Peter Poroshenko's Block. Vladimir Ariev, please, from the rostrum. And I'm going to give all the factions, and I'm going to give the non-factional a chance to do that. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, there are often suggestions that we all follow the Rules, and that is absolutely fair. I am a member of the regulatory committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and all factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have their representation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thus, in Paris, if a delegate has a speech that does not refer to the subject of discussion, the chairman stops the talk and deprives the delegate of his words. In other European parliaments, when a topic is discussed, a certain subject is discussed, and when someone is not speaking on the subject, the chairman stops the speaker. If we're talking about meeting European standards, we have to meet these European standards in everything. And if we are now, well, I'm not talking about the homage openly and the lie that some of our colleagues are spreading from this rostrum. But any thing that needs to be said can be said at a specific time. In other parliaments, as in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there is a special time called "free debates". And during these "free debates," where truth also has one limit that can't be discussed in the agenda of a day session, you can say anything within the limits of regulation and ethical norms. So I want to radically say that we need to be decent people first and start with ourselves, if you want to be European, then do everything you can to have European principles in this Parliament, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u125	Thank you. From the People's Front, will anyone take the floor? Maxim may decide to give the word, then I'll give it to him. Next, does the Opposition Block want to participate in the discussion? No, it's not. Then, perhaps, yes. Does "self-help" want to participate in the discussion? Who? Yegor Sobolev. Then Oleg Lazko. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u126	I'll tell you the truth, I'm asking you to take this the right way, but it's like a bunch of crooks who stole money from the bank yesterday are talking about whether or not you can break the rules when you play cards or can't. Mr. Speaker, you are the Head of the Supreme Council, who is to be governed by the Supreme Council Rules. The problem that you have mentioned is fully described in the Law on the Rules, and it needs to be implemented. "self-help" suggests that you pay attention and attention to all colleagues who failed to comply with their obligations yesterday, did not give the law to their members. And that's why we're proposing in these days, one and a half that remain until the end of the session, to pass the Anti-Corruption Court Act and the restrictions on parliamentary immunity. Without these decisions, citizens will have no confidence in all of our votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u127	Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm very grateful to our honorary colleague from the Peter Prashenko bloc, who came out here and reminded us of European standards. Thank you so much! Because unfortunately, the parliamentary coalition you're going into is not following those European standards. For example, let me give you an example. The European Parliament created an offshore investigation commission to investigate the activities of the authorities that hid money in offshore areas. The parliamentary faction of the Radical Party, which is in opposition, demanded for two months to set up a commission to investigate offshore government activities in accordance with European standards. You didn't want to support this European standard, you didn't want to investigate an independent committee to investigate the activities of the government and the president. And another example of European standards that, unfortunately, you authorities don't follow. One hour later, you passed an anti-constitutional law that allowed Lucenck, the godfather of President Dustenk, to be appointed Attorney General. In accordance with the Rules, every national MP has the right to make a decree to block this law for two days. You signed this law in an hour, and in two hours, you appointed your godfather's president as Attorney General to enforce this law. Please show me these European standards in any Parliament. Where it is possible for the President of his godfather to appoint the Attorney-General for three hours, twenty times changing, "raping" parliament, changing the law. When you want to limit us to freedom of speech, you mention European standards. When you rob people, when you abuse authority, when you assign people to positions that help you rob a country, you forget European standards! When you give people European tariffs, when you forget about European pensions and European wages, it's dishonest behavior, it's double, triple, your standards. Give it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u129	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Then Papiev. Please, two minutes, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! I think it would be right if Parliament Speaker Andry Volodymyrovich was able to decide for himself when he was not speaking on the subject of a speaker, to stop his speech. Because some of our deputies are using it in this session room. And secondly, I'd like to talk to some colleagues here about a bunch of crooks who stole votes yesterday. So I would like to remind you that for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism in the last 20 years yesterday, the MPs were deprived of parliamentary immunity from the coalition. Then I'd like to say to a bunch of scumbags who spread political garbage all over the country, that when it came to saving Lviv, the coalition government did it instead of your "Take and Do" slogan, you can't build a garbage plant in six years. So do not spread many rumors, fairy tales, or distractions about your responsibility for the city of Lviv, the main tourist attraction of Western Ukraine, and all Ukraine in general. So, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, I'm sure you'll be able to distinguish between the fairies that make the speech and stop those MPs who speak on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, 2 minutes, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u132	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. And I'd like to draw your attention to the remains of those deputies left in the hall. You know that today’s conversation is not random. Do you know why? Because you created the precedent for today’s conversation. I'll remind you in 2014. In this room you had 310 people who were in the coalition. You've been driving everyone, including who to give the speech, who to take away the words, you've all joined together in a coalition. You could have done anything under the Rules of Procedure Act. You could've done anything and you could've done the inviolability of the institution, and you could've done it by law, by law. What did you do first when you went to Europe? You've overturned the Opposition Act. You knocked him out. And then more -- you've broken the coalition Today no one can understand, damn it, which one of you is in the coalition, which one of you is the opposition. Today you are talking about what needs to be done on the subject. So let's talk on the subject, you're a coalition yourself, you're breaking it all now. I've not once, speaking from the Supreme Council's rostrum at the beginning of this office for the commission of the Opposition Block, addressed you people, don't spit in the well, because you'll drink from it. I kept telling you to follow the rules. It's not a position, it's not a city council, it's the Ukrainian Rule Act. And whoever violates this is a violator of the Ukrainian Law, you have become hostages of your manipulations and your violations. And now I'm talking to those colleagues who are most appealing for justice, the one who's behind the reform, who's sitting in the Communist seats. You have voted in violation of the Rules, today you continue to vote in favour of this medical reform and there is one violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u133	So the factions are done, right? No, it's not. By factions, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? Call me the agenda that we're discussing right now, and then look at how many people are in the hall and understand why we're doing this and why we're discussing everything. And I think the key problem is the order of the day. Because if there is no question in the daytime until now, the key question. Please tell me why you didn't withdraw your pension tax. The bill was registered a year and a half ago. And "Julie's Will" cried out to Yatsenuk, so go to him, say it again, and don't forget what it ends up like when they cooperate with the Environment and Ahmetov, who is voted out by all voices. So pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have an order of the day today and you don't have a tendency to talk about it, because if there were a question of de-offshoring, if there was a question of budgeting today, that would be a topic. Now, the key question is, please tell me, what about the budget? "Dead" budget? Why was the budget adopted by the President's Administration tonight rather than in Parliament? Why do tens of billions of dollars go back to the deputies and to the budget committee? Who was sitting at the Administration's tonight, maybe name names, or should I call those names? How have they tried through the budget committee today to extend the decision that was made in the Presidential Administration? That's the problem with this Parliament. Because we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. And the hooves who are sitting in this room, they can't understand that they're Ukrainian national deputies, not "sixers" on the speaker. Only then will this Parliament begin to work when it understands its honour and conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u135	I would like to point out, colleagues, that as Head of Parliament I have the right to invite factions to exchange thoughts at any stage of the session. Now I've taken advantage of that right. But, colleagues, this can't be an endless exchange. Now, I'm going to give you one minute, the Opposition Block, one minute, Kaplin, one minute, Matkowski, and we're going to finish the discussion. Okay, Chumak, one more minute, and then I announce my decision. Colleagues, this can't be infinite, and that's why the minute is Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u136	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. There's a lot of people going out to the rostrum, and they're slapping on the opposition block. And I'll tell you one thing, you know why Ukraine is not respected in the world today? Because in this Parliament they divided themselves into who they are, who they consider to be a patriot, and everyone else is an enemy. So let me tell you, when you vote your interesting questions, you forget about the Cloud. Yesterday, the Education Act, the coalition is so concerned about the Education Act, and without 24 votes and yesterday it would have been overturned. And a whole bunch of billings that are socially important to you are falling off without the "cloud," so you don't get your tongue back? I say again, the absence of the Opposition Act allows you to resist and pour dirt. If you want this parliament to build Ukraine, think of it as a political power that supports everything that protects the interests of Ukrainian citizens in the legislative field. And stop manipulating. Just between you and me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u137	Capplin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u138	Should the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given the right to stop national deputies when they speak out of content? Of course you do. But is it necessary for this Supreme Council of Ukraine to give this right? Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, you have no right to exercise this exclusive right because you are worse than Ribak you have been drowning under the Ukrainian Rules. The other one. I wrote a statement a year ago about leaving the coalition. So far, you've been delaying and not going to read out my statement and Sugonako's statement to get out of the coalition. We are all, millions of Ukrainian witnesses, as the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are scattered and dissolved. As for the statements made by Lakota and others. I mean, you're both slaves that one lives in a house a thousand square meters, the other one lives in a house a thousand square meters.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u139	It's, of course, strange things -- that kind of exchange of thoughts, that's strange things. Please, Matkowski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u140	Bogdan Matkowski, 121st constituency. We just saw an example where we had to interrupt the speech of the national deputy. And the thing is, we all came here to discuss bills essentially, not to explain our position on other subjects. So, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you personally to interrupt the speeches of the National Deputies if they are not speaking on the subject. Because we're not doing a constructive job discussing the bill, and we're doing some kind of political pianist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u141	Thank you. Now, don't forget, Chumak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u142	Victor Chumak, 214th constituency, city of Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the arguments and, in principle, the constant quarrels. You know what it's called? It's called "the conflict of rabbits and crosses." You know, if they want to shut someone's mouth in principle, they say, let's not give a word, let's talk about it. When they basically want to stretch. and we will act in accordance with the Rules, if they want to extend any law in an illegal way, then they break the Rules as soon as possible. You know, in one northern country, Parliament was said to be no place for discussion. Thank God our Parliament is still a place for discussion. And, thank God, in our Parliament you can talk about what you think and what you want. And I want to say, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I'd probably only be speaking on the subject if you hadn't broken the Rules four times today. Four when accepted in principle are very simple. easy draft laws. And what you do every day and every time you adopt laws, it doesn't fit in any doors. Poor Fish didn't know you could do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Colleagues, just two performances, I have to respond. Because it's the nonsense of clean water -- what it sounds like. When you can come out of the rostrum here on any subject, and I emphasize, I guarantee a right for every faction of the performance on any issue, and when you compare it with the Ribak, you also have to have a little bit of a relationship, it's a little bit of a conscience to those people who are doing political bidding here in the Russian oligarchs and who are using the rostrum just to destroy the Ukrainian Parliament to destroy the Ukrainian state. It's just nonsense and nonsense to tell lies from here. What has been the violation of the Rules four times today? Why was it broken? They asked where and where the order of the day was, today all the questions that were in order of the day were discussed in detail. Once again, we went back to voting under the current Rules. This rule is foreordained, the return to voting, and it has no limitations. And that's why when I exchange my thoughts, I'm asking you to have an elementary validity, because there's no debate at that point. When people come out to make a vowel statement that's unconfirmed, someone gets more swearing and someone gets more premiums than the Russian oligar Firtas. Then it's not a debate, I'm sorry! Then it's called "political pyar" during the debate. And I'm asking you to be correct. And notice, I try not to react to these things, I try not to answer these things. But I'm asking all MPs to behave properly. Now it's Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u144	Babak Alona, Self Help. I would like to address the state's highest representative body with this appeal: don't talk, please, in your statements about whether we are going to Europe or we want to go to Europe because we are in Europe. If anyone does not know, Ukraine is. Ukraine has a geographical centre, and our goal is to preserve Ukrainian values, which are, including, European values, and not to tarnish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u145	Thank you. That's the last of it now. Replica was mentioned in the Bible. And that's it, and we're done. And we're closing the discussion on this. I'm announcing a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u146	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to urge you that our Parliament be not only a place for discussion, but a place for decision-making. The Radical Party team insists that we urgently consider our bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine and for all time secure Ukrainian land beyond our farmers in order to prevent it from being looted by latifundists and oligarchs. We insist that tomorrow, first of all, we consider a bill to raise pensions for Ukrainian pensioners, to modernize, to recalculate pensions. We demand a new minimum wage level of 5,000 dollars per month from October 1st. The only way to get the country out of poverty, out of oligarch's claws is to raise wages, raise pensions, raise Ukrainian income. Ukrainians have a job and a life worth living!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u147	Thank you. So we're done talking. Colleagues, I'm going to read you the positions that are in the Rules on this subject. The first position, article 36, is called the request for statements at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Paragraph one, the speaker should speak only on the question from which he is given the word and the length of time he is given to speak. Under normal circumstances, the speaker does not interrupt. This is one position that mentions the subject of discussion. And second position in article 52, please listen carefully. A complete list of questions is provided here when the chairman can stop the speech. It is as follows: At a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, a speaker should not use abusive speech, obscene speech, or unlawful action. In the event of a violation by the speaker of such a request, the chairman of a plenary session warns him of the inadmissibility of such statements and calls or stops his speech, and in the event of a repeated violation, he deprives him of the right to speak at this plenary session. So there's one rule that predicts that there should be a speech on the subject, but where the chairman is given the right to stop the speech, a comprehensive list is given -- under which conditions. But we had a general discussion, and I have great respect for the position and the Peter Prashenko Block, first of all, for upholding the Rules and all the other factions. And let me start tomorrow with a little bit more hard on that and stop the performances. Why am I saying this, colleagues? Because you've turned your attention to me, I'm trying to be honest with all the factions. I'm trying to make sure there's an atmosphere in the room where everyone can say their position, their opinion. And so when there's no conflict, if there's a proper understanding of this room, I'm going to have this rule that's not directly regulated, because I'm stressing that it's only directly regulated on a specific list of actions, and I'm going to apply it, and I'm hoping that this room will respond in an understanding manner as well as to all the other issues provided for in the Rules on the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do you have a deal? Is there a deal? And one more request, I'm initiating a debate, but it's very important that if we do this thing, so that we have a professional debate, that we speak on a specific subject, not just to state a position that doesn't apply to this topic, too. So as Head, I don't have a direct rule about stopping the speech, but from tomorrow, I'm going to put this rule in order not to allow it. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how there were speeches! [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, I just read it again. Did you hear me or not? I only have a straight norm in one case. Attention! I'll read it again. The Rules state: "If the speaker exceeds the time set for the speech, or if he does not make a statement on the question under discussion, does he not speak for the reasons for which he has been given the floor, the chairman of the plenary shall warn him of it, and if he continues to violate the requirement of this Rules, he shall withdraw his words.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u148	Who determines whether we speak for those reasons or not? It's our right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u149	That part of the speaker's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u150	I think we're speaking for that reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u151	Colleagues, why I speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u152	Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u153	We just talked, guys. Colleagues, attention, attention. We won't discuss it again. Why did I say that I would introduce this standard in a step by step if there was no conflict. And we'll feel it in the hall. I have no desire to break the hall, but I have a desire to make every national MP feel comfortable in the hall. And so, colleagues, that's why I'm saying that we're going to try and put this into action in stages. Colleagues, we're done here. I'm not going to play another round of discussions. Now we're going to the next question. We exchanged thoughts. Now we move on to the next question of the agenda. This is for re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. We are now moving on to 2210a: the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for students of senior medical, pharmaceutical, military training institutions under the mandatory medical officers training programme), with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 17.11.2016. And the procedure provides for a special consideration; it foresees that there are reports and questions to the speaker. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u154	Honorary colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 18, 16, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for students of senior medical, pharmaceutical and military training institutions, under the programme of preparation of mandatory medical officers), registration number 2210a, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine, leaving the following. The law that came with the signature stipulated that military training would be provided under the officers ’ program. The training of medical officers is routinely carried out by Ukrainian citizens who receive higher education at Ukrainian medical, pharmaceutical and military institutions and are fit for military health and moral quality. It should be noted that there are about 65,000 students in higher medical, pharmaceutical schools. Every year, there are 12,000 doctors, while in medical units or facilities of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Ukraine there are about 2,000,800 military doctors or supplies, and the available mobilization resources of medical officers amount to about 60,000 — a 20 - fold surplus. Thus, the introduction of compulsory training for all Ukrainian citizens who are receiving higher education in the Ukrainian medical, pharmaceutical, and medical training institutions will lead to the release of medical officers with more than 20 times the necessary medical supplies. In view of the above, the training of students under the training of health - care officers should be carried out within the scope of the government’s request for training of appropriate professionals. In view of the above, the Head of State proposes the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the conduct of university medical, pharmaceutical, military training in preparation for the training of medical officers. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Stay in the rostrum. There will be questions for the reporter. Five minutes is taken to ask questions. I'm asking you to record a question. Please, Shepherd Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u156	Your Honor, the representative of the President, you have named a statistic that has apparently been prepared for you by the Ministry of Defense, the General Staff. But I want to remind you that this statistic is "the use of pharmacists, medics in the Armed Forces during times of peace," which unfortunately today is de facto and de jure, although we really understand that we have a war today. Can you name a number if, God forbid, tomorrow, and such threats to Ukraine today are felt, there will be a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, as long as we need trained medics, and the medic to prepare it not a shooter. The shooter can be trained in a range, perhaps within 4-5 months, and a military medic needs to be trained for years, and not every doctor can be a military medic. How long will it take us then? And if these frames aren't assembled, how many, unfortunately, of our military personnel can be left behind, unfortunately, in that world? Do you have such numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u157	Thank you for asking. I have here the position of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, where proposals are made with numbers for military time. Please note and take into account the fact that in the 14th year, when the aggression began in relation to Ukraine, special training programmes were developed by the Ministry of Health's Office for the preparation of medical institutions for all specialties. These specialties and those additional trainings, and training programs on individual appropriate military medical disciplines, are included in all 3-4 degree accreditation bonds. It was also recommended and introduced. for today, appropriate courses in military medical care have been added to the list of elective courses, except for those military-related medical specialties, which are required courses to be conducted by doctors as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u158	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u159	Both civilian medical training and military training. I repeat the figures given by the Ministry of Defense. 60,000 doctors who are published every year in higher education institutions, and 12,000 who are released every year, are undergoing compulsory military medical disciplines since the 14th year. 50,000 medics in stock and 12 of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u160	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u161	And those 50,000 medics that are in stock are digital enough to ensure the need for a front if all the fighting can take place during this period. Next. According to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, additional funding, if required, will be 140 million in 2017, 280 million in 2018, in 2019 and the following year 420 million. This is the extra funding we need today. Add wages to our soldiers, build them barracks of normal modern species, you know. Weapons, ammunition, and so on. That's the answer to the Ministry of Defense's need.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u162	Thank you. And the last question, Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u163	Good afternoon! Mrs. Irina, please tell me if the President understands this, I'm telling you as one of the authors of this law, that, right now, in the ATO area, only 30 percent of the maximum units are from the medical needs. 30 percent of all. What the Ministry of Defense has written to you will, unfortunately, disinform you. Because today, in all medical institutions, military pulpit is paid. There's a war going on, and so far, if you want to get additional military disciplines, the student has to pay! We started with you in 2014, without any doctors. And the hospital's highly specialized doctors went off like paramedics! And we're about to end -- seventeen years -- and so far, volunteers are taking out wounded! This is simply because the system is not organized. You're saying we want to save 140 million. How much will the lives of millions of our citizens cost if the war with Russia is complete?Oh, my God! Because right now we're still operating.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u164	30 seconds to complete. Ah, they're done, aren't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u165	Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u166	Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u167	Mrs. Oksana, the numbers I brought you fully cover the medical needs. And the people who are now in stock are also covering this need. But for that, there is an MP's control to force the appropriate authorities of the Ministry of Defense to carry out appropriate logistics and to secure the first line of the front, the second line of the medics in the necessary amount. You and I work very hard in this MP's control. You know how much we do with you and OHMATDIT, we volunteered with you on the front. So I'm asking you very much not to confuse funding with the additional needs of specialists who will not be implemented, but the state will bear these costs, with the organization of work, with the organization of logistics and security on the front. I remind you, the Ministry of Defense has been approved and approved by the Strategic Military.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u168	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u169	The strategic military bulletin, which sets out all NATO standards on appropriate back-up, medical care, treatment of our boys, rehabilitation, has provided them with adequate reinforcements, protections and others, formation of units, I won't count it. According to the standards that Ukraine has assumed as a commitment and the need that exists today in Ukraine is sufficient. The other question is whether the Ministry of Defense and our General Staff are following those requirements is a different matter. You don't have to produce what you don't need. We need to force our Armed Forces, our Ministry of Defense, to work on the standards they made. And one more thing. We had Stoltenberg two days ago, and he said, "Honorous national MPs, where the law that you're going to adopt on national security is where the law is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u170	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u171	Where is the Civil Defence Minister Act, where is the Law on Deputy Control of Distribution? Let us clearly distinguish between work, financing, and fulfilling our responsibilities. I think we need to organize ourselves in this direction, set up appropriate structures, such as the Ministry of Defense, carry out their functions: assign medical personnel, create and fill hospitals in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. All right, time for questions is up. And now the co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. A representative of the committee is Vinnik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u173	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, the President's proposal for this important bill should start at 12:30, but I'm sad to say that for an hour I've been watching the controversy, the speaking arts, the manipulation of consciousness, the political measurements, who better to surprise their electorate. It's called demagogy, among other things, it's not parliamentary, it's very sad that we've lost an hour. With regard to the bill that the President has brought back to Parliament, the Ministry of Defence actually believes that the need to prepare medical officers will exceed the state defense order for this group of military personnel almost 20 times, and this will require additional funding in 2018 for 90 million dollars in the right direction and in 2019 420 million dollars in the right direction. In fact, I also support the opinion of some of my colleagues that maybe this figure needs verification in case of urgent need, if there is an active military action, the need for medical professionals will be significantly greater. Although I should point out that medical companies are still in the ATO zone today, and there are military workers serving there today. I can give you an example of the 24th IDB and the medical company that I personally met with, which we helped as a committee. And what I'm saying is that the main problem of the medical company today is not the lack of adequate expertise, but the lack of appropriate technology is why we really need to provide medical professionals today, and not just medical techniques, even banal road transport, which, in fact, volunteers and people who are in pain today, namely providing the Ukrainian army with quality, security that raises the ability of the respective units, is relevant. In fact, it is now partly on the shoulders of volunteers. That's why the committee has supported that we really need to see how much better these expenses are, not small costs, hundreds of millions of dollars to redistribute, maybe better to buy appropriate equipment than to prepare health professionals for tens of thousands who won't, properly get the need from the Ministry of Defense. Of course, it's the President's veto today to overcome it, it takes 300 votes, 300 deputies not even physically in this room right now, let's speak honestly, so no one can overcome the veto. Let's quickly go through this question, and those ideas, those right thoughts that were echoed by our colleagues from Self-Help and the Radical Party, let's look at the committee and come out together with a balanced bill, prepare the necessary number of medical professionals, save the money, and direct them to the technology of these medical mouths. It's going to be the right government approach and enough to do demogogies in this session hall, let's work. The committee proposes to reject the bill, to support the President's proposals, but we will be grateful if, at the suggestion of the Head of the Supreme Council, a mandate is given to the Committee of Profiles to further address the issue and exit with a balanced position in the session room. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u174	Stay on the rostrum, there are still answers to questions. Please record the answer to your questions. Storm Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u175	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. I have a question for you, you're all right, and this is one of the rare cases where I'm willing to support your speech. But I have a question for you as a member of the coalition: and what did you think when you voted for this bill in the hall? And you voted, you know, your factions, your coalition, you didn't count the budget money, you didn't count how many experts we need, you didn't listen to what your political opponents tell you, you didn't have to do that. In 2006, the pulpits were eliminated, you were trying to rebuild them, why would you do that so that the President, as little children like cats, would poke your nose, don't do that, because it's wrong. And as of today, everyone has volunteered. Now I have a question: how can such bills be considered by a reduced procedure. Tuck-bach, and then we agree with the President. So tell me, please, in the future, will you also consider drafts like this, after a reduced procedure, without calculating any data? And later you're back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u176	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u177	You know, I've always been genuinely convinced when I came to this Parliament that there should be no political opponents in Ukraine's national security issues, because even though you think you're politically involved, perhaps for the sake of another state's interests. You are still in Kiev, and this is the capital of Ukraine, and this is the country where you live, which feeds you today, and even in some cases allows you to steal, unfortunately. As far as the bill is concerned, it's a parliamentary bill, you know clearly the Constitution, I've heard it from your statements, that the Constitution provides for the right to legislative initiative of any national MP, and we will consider such an initiative. Just like an appropriate entity that implements state policy in the area of security and defence, the Ministry of Defence, has no right to its own opinion. Like the President, the guarantor of the Constitution, including the obligation to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u178	How much time do you have to finish? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u179	In order to ensure the effectiveness of the Ukrainian military and to protect our nation as effectively as possible, unlike politics, unfortunately, as we see today in the walls of the Supreme Council. So I find your question inappropriate. If there is a desire to discuss, we invite you to the committee sincerely to discuss the matter again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u180	Thank you. The next three deputies, who recorded the question, joined together and passed their time on to Korchinska Oksana. And so you have three minutes to ask, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u181	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana, National MP and author of this bill. Please tell me, Mr. Fellow Deputy National Security Committee of the Supreme Council, that your chairman of your committee, Mr. Pashinsky, is the author of this bill. Just now. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u182	That's it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u183	The second question is, do you know that in the 24th Brigade, the one you just said you met there, the medical facility in the copper is now 32 percent, the mid-medical compound, I'm not going to lie. No more than 60, no more drivers and no more ambulances. I'm talking about the 24th Brigade. Do you know that most ATO brigades now have 70 to 80 percent deficits. When you say there's an exaggeration of the staff that prepares medical units, once again, it's about the obligation to return military pulpits and, of course, tactical medicine to all medical units and including schools, not all educational institutions. At this point, it's voluntary, and for its own money, the country is fighting, and we're not preparing military medicine. Why, then, if you have such an exaggeration when you have it now. You're calling from the reserve directly for the reserve officers, such a terrible medical deficit in the brigades? Not only in brigades, but also in battalions, including hospitals. So I'm asking you to answer, because at this point, you also told a lie to the 24th Brigade.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u184	Dear Mrs. Corchinska! You know, under the Constitution, any national MP, regardless of his name and office, has the same right of legislative initiative. Depending on the name Pashinsky or Korczynska, regardless of who heads which committee, he has the same right to register this bill. And I just can't figure out what kind of hints you wanted to tell me in your question about whether or not I know that. You know, this session hall, I hope, at least today, is looking at bills essentially, not depending on the name. That's the first one. As for the 24 brigades and the medical company. True, not true, you know, I'm just quoting people I've personally dated. It's a two-man medical company. It's a girl and a man who's been invited to "Lastvice" and "Bingo." They stressed to me that the main problem was lack of technology. Yes, we helped, we passed the cars, they use these cars today, they save the lives of our soldiers. That's very right, in my opinion, and I advise you to do it to anyone who has the opportunity. The other one. Third, with regard to the kit, the committee does not deny that we are obliged to prepare officers for the medical reserve, but in this case the bill suggested that the State be obliged to finance the training of specialists who are, in fact, considered by the Ministry of Defence to be 20 times less than the amount to be prepared each year. Once again, I'm stressing that we don't object to the idea, but I'm just suggesting that, given that in this session hall, once again, there are no 300 deputies, maybe there's no 226 now physically, we don't have to delay this question, we have to move on, we have to look at it urgently, and this will open the way for us on the committee once again to register this legislative initiative, to talk about it, and to approach it with a balanced approach to the distribution of these expenses. That's the amount of money that colleges really need today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u185	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u186	A reserve of the health service to provide in the state budget, the rest of the funds still to be channelled, in my opinion, into technology. There is also a great need, not just to prepare a reserve, which will then sit completely in the peaceful part of Ukraine and in no way help the resilience of our troops. We've got at least 300,000 reserve officers coming out of higher education. Remember the noise when the Ministry of Defense and the General Staff tried to mobilize a maximum of about one and a half thousand such individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-12-m0.u187	Thank you. So the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm going to remind the committee that in order to open up the possibility of considering a new law, we need to take a decision on this law and so I'm going to step up these decisions that are provided for in the Rules. The first is to reject the law, the second is to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So I'm the first to vote: reject the Act on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (number 2210a). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[13:50:40]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Next, a proposal: to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. For this proposal to pass, it requires 300 votes. Whoever supports this proposal is to overcome the President's veto, please vote. [[13:51:14]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, therefore, have been rejected by the Ukrainian Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. And this actually opens the way for the drafting of a new law, and it opens the way for this issue to be resolved by a new vote in the room. The law is rejected. The decision is not made. So, dear colleagues, it was important for us to consider this law. We've been through his consideration. It's 13:52, and we're just not going to be able to get into the next draft, because the time envisaged for consideration is going to go beyond our work. Besides, I have to read the messages that came to me in the Presidency. I'd like to read a statement from the Ukrainian national deputy Petrenko Oleg Mikolaiovich. "Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, guided by part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, declares my withdrawal from the faction of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka". National Deputy of Ukraine Petrenko Oleg Mikolaiovich." So, colleagues, we were able to make five decisions today. This is, I think, 7 decisions that were actually important. I think that's a good result of our work on Wednesday. Let me remind you, we're going to have a very responsible committee today before tomorrow's responsible day. So I want everyone to work productively and actively on the committees. And I would like to emphasize, tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're starting our work. We have a very large and active agenda tomorrow, so I'm asking everyone to come in on time. And I'm going to propose tomorrow, as always, that I cancel the break. And I'm going to ask everyone very much for their support so that we can have the same day tomorrow. So I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I wish everyone fruitful work on the committees. Thank you.
