ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? I'd like you to sign up, please. [[10:04:29]] There are 329 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today we have the birthday of our colleagues Vladimir Mikhailovich Katsuba, in Alona Volodymyrna Kosheljewa, welcome, and Dmitri Vladimirovich Linka. [[Applause]] Welcome to your birthday, too. I would like to say, colleagues, we recently had an important date -- June 28 was 100 years old from the day the first Ukrainian government was formed. A hundred years ago, the Ukrainian General Secretariat - Government of the Ukrainian People’s Republic was formed in Kiev by a decision of the Committee of the Ukrainian Central Council. I warmly welcome our government with that important historic Jubilee. And I want to report that we have both the government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] I wish us all, both government and parliament, unity in the name of the preservation, development, power and prosperity of our state. But before we go to "the hour of questions to the government," I want to report that there's a statement from two factions about a break. But they're ready to replace the break from the rostrum. And I invite you to address the head of the Peter Dust Block, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yesterday, an unprecedented event took place under the walls of the Supreme Council. A group of aggressive men attacked our colleague Oleg Barna and many other deputies. I want to focus your attention, they weren't allowed into the House of Parliament, where they went to vote for the removal of the inviolability. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko strongly condemns this illegal, baseless and insolent attack by so-called public activists against a member of our faction. By attacking Oleg Barna, these fighters demonstrated the real purpose of their action, which has nothing to do with fighting corruption. Yesterday's organizers knew very well that the agenda for the Supreme Council's day session had been brought up in advance with the question of removing the intactness, arresting and arresting the odiotic politician, and that Oleg Barn went to vote in favour of this issue, I stress, stopped him when he went inside the Parliament to vote in favour of this issue. We are confident that the action was organized with the aim of overthrowing the Supreme Council's vote for the removal of inviolability and was carried out to suppress and dilute the situation in the country, to increase the tensions in society, to undermine confidence in any authority. Even more indignant is the fact that the attack was committed not only against the national MP but against the man who defended and defended Ukraine’s territorial integrity with his blood. The baseless attack on Oleg Barna, the aggressive behavior of all MPs who went to the House of Parliament to vote for inviolability, on the other hand, proves that the puppet guides of yesterday's action under the walls of the Supreme Council have only one goal: to attract the attention of the citizens in any way, and at least to earn cheap authority. And they don't care that the country needs to continue with the reforms needed for economic stability, to strengthen its resilience. We emphasize that among the wrongdoers of the MP was Sergey Hadjinov, the newly elected representative of the NABU Public Control Council, a man who should be a model and defend justice, actually under the walls of the Supreme Council, arranged cheap provocations and political orders without allowing MPs into the Parliamentary Hall to vote for the removal of inviolability. This is unacceptable behavior, an objective assessment that should be given not only by the relevant law enforcement authorities and institutions, by colleagues in the Council of Public Controls, but also by the entire Ukrainian society. Yesterday, so-called anti-corruption fighters, pseudopaths showed their real faces. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko calls on the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police, to immediately investigate this unprecedented fact. Whatever provocations our opponents have done, no matter how they try to block or disrupt Parliament's work, we, the national MPs, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko, the faction of the coalition, will continue to sustain and implement consistently all initiatives aimed at enhancing the sovereignty of the state, economic stability and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u3	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u4	And to help our citizens, we will conscientiously do our duty to the citizens of Ukraine and do our utmost to make Ukraine a strong and prosperous country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u5	Thank you. And we're moving under Rule 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules to an hour of questions to the government. And I would like to invite young and sports minister Igor Alexandrovich Zhdanov. Mr. Igor, please go to the rostrum. And, colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u6	Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainian community, dear Mr. Golovo, Mr. Prime Minister! The sport system in Ukraine met with systemic challenges and negative trends during the years of independence. Ukraine's leading athletes were often forced to go to competitions and training congregations, setting up their own funds. Then, for months, they could not wait for the State to return the money. During the years of independence, Ukraine’s sports infrastructure was systematically damaged. There have been instances when, through outright negligence and ignorance, athletes and trainers have not received merited scholarships or prizes for a long time. I was dismayed by the fact that many athletes did not even have the form of our national assembly with the coat of arms of Ukraine to go out and present Ukraine during the award ceremony. For years, no new equipment was purchased for national assembly teams. For example, the future Olympic champion of sports gymnastics, Oleg Vernyev, and his colleagues were forced to train on extremely old shells. It seemed that a little longer and that the system of high - score sports would finally be destroyed. There was a real danger that we would lose the entire pack of best athletes and coaches forever, and with them the status of Europe’s leading sports state and the world. With the personal support of then prime minister Arsenius Yatzenuk, we were able to stop the negative trend in this area, stabilize the situation. We started to increase the budget of the sports programs of the Ministry, we made the first purchase of new equipment for the collection, including the purchase of a complete kit of equipment for sports gymnastics. And last but not least, that's why Oleg Verneyev became the Olympic champion. There were elevated prizes for winning international competitions, eating standards for athletes, a preserved system of children's sports. A form has been purchased, scholarships and award-winning scholarships have been assured, and all training assemblies and competitions have been funded. And it was through fruitful cooperation with Parliament, with the National Olympic Committee, the Paralympic Committee, the Federation. We've come up with a normal, stable, high-performance sport system. The next step is 2016-2017, which can be described as the first steps in the transition from stabilization to the development of the physical and sports sphere. So what have we been able to do together this year? First. We have seriously increased the prestige of the work of Ukrainian athletes. Once again, I would like to thank you for this because of cooperation with the budgetary and professional committee of the Supreme Council, the National Olympic Committee and, by the way, with the people's deputies, who represent all the factions of Parliament, including the opposition. We've managed to raise almost three times the salary of the main and senior coaches of the National Assembly team of Ukraine, on the average they're getting 35,000 dollars a month. On July 4, the government doubled its scholarships to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the country's outstanding coaches, who are directly preparing candidates for the Olympic and Paralympic Games. These are the personal coaches of many of our leaders and winners in international competitions. Their new size is about 25,000 dollars. This decision was long awaited by the sports family because we need to maintain the unique coaching potential that Ukraine has today. On the other hand, we are gradually creating conditions for new coaches to return to Ukraine who have invaluable experience and knowledge, training methods, but were scattered around the world. As of September 1, 2017, there will be an increase in salaries for teachers of children's sports schools. A corresponding decree was adopted at the last government meeting. This decision allows for an increase in pay for individual categories of workers in physical and sports establishments to two tariff levels. First of all, we're talking about 15,000 children's sports coaches, with almost 500,000 young teachers. I think the coaches deserve it, they work with themselves, they work with great enthusiasm, they take the kids out of the street, they inculcate the love of sport, they find for the country of future champions. Thus, we carried out the commission of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, working with Vice-Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko. The implementation of the decree requires small amounts from local budgets: 64 million dollars this year and about 200 million dollars from the next. Convinced, in sports and education we cannot save, especially when local governments have 55 billion unused funds in their accounts. Much more will have to be spent on curing disease and dealing with the consequences of these harmful habits. The other one. We took the first steps towards restoring Ukraine's sports infrastructure. Last year Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman accepted and publicly supported the anchor initiative in 2017, at least 10 per cent of the State Regional Development Fund's funding for the development of sport infrastructure. The Parliamentary Hall supported this initiative, which is now the norm of the Ukrainian Budget Code. In this way, Ukraine has taken up the experience of the European Union, particularly Poland, which I had the opportunity to study and see personally during work trips abroad. The total cost of the 2017 DFRD for the development of sport infrastructure is 374 million dollars. This is one of the government's largest investments in Ukrainian sports infrastructure over the years. As of today, 84 projects have been selected and approved by the Commission, showing that all areas of Ukraine, including the Lugansk and Donetsk region, have submitted their projects. What's that? This is the renovation of sports halls, the technical refurbishment and the construction of new DUSS structures, the reconstruction of stadiums, the creation of new modern sports courses – all of this will certainly give additional impetus to the development of physical culture and sport. The rise in the prestige of the Ukrainian coach's work, the beginning of the systematic restoration of sports infrastructure, is one of the most positive achievements, our common positive achievements, a real example of concern for the people to whom I am personally proud. Third. The great European world sport is returning to Ukraine. In early July, it became known that Ukraine was granted the right to hold the 35th European Art Gymnastics Championship in 2020. Just think about it: in 2017, Ukraine hosted the official Paralympic Cup of the World of Ski Races and Biatlon, the World Hockey Championship of Division 1-A, and the World Championship of Motorcycles. After a four-year break, the prestigious international tournaments Ukraine was proud of, including the "Derugino Cup" of artistic gymnastics, an international tournament to fight the memory of prominent Ukrainian partners and coaches. A real triumph for the national assembly team of Ukraine ended the European Water Jump Championships held in Ukraine in June. For the first time in the history of independence, we accepted this competition. In doing so, Ukraine chose to hold this European priority in strict competition with Russia. In summary, our athletes chose ten prizes, winning a European cup, ahead of Russia in the point of command. The blue and yellow flag rose three times and our hymn was proud to be heard throughout Europe. The European Boxing Championship, which we also received for the first time in our history, came to an early conclusion for Ukraine. He went to Kharkiv, and we received 300 boxers from 40 European countries. I will note that Turkey and Russia argued with Ukraine for the right to hold the tournament. The Ukrainian congregation has chosen six prizes, three of them gold, and won first place in the command post. The congregation of Russia and England remained behind. The two European Championships in Ukraine are the first two! This is a remarkable victory for Ukraine. Let us applaud the athletes and coaches, all who have joined the organization and have these matches. Every successful event of major international competitions is our joint contribution of our entire sports family to European integration. It's a contribution to curbing Russian hybrid aggression, spreading Kremlin propaganda about what seems to be bad and total betrayal. In 2017, without even going abroad with visas or without a visa, millions of our citizens had the opportunity to feel like real Europeans, to watch TV or on the Internet, or directly on the slopes of European and world level competition. The world community has made sure that Ukraine is able to guarantee security during such measures and can conduct them at a high international level. Because this strengthens our prestige, our tourist attraction, our sovereign sovereignty, our position of Ukrainian sport, our entire diplomacy. Dear colleagues, there are still many interesting sporting events ahead of us. At the end of July, World Games are being launched in the Polish city of Wroclaw. Eighty athletes in 20 sports will represent Ukraine in these competitions, the biggest competitions on the planet, which are analogous to the Olympics for the family of non-Olympic sports. For the first time, government funding for the preparation and participation of global games was provided through a separate budget program of 45 million dollars. Along with the sports committee and the federations, we created the necessary conditions for training congregations of athletes, bought equipment, form, inventory. We have also been able to double the state’s prizes for the winners and winners of future world games. For gold, athletes will receive 480,000 dollars, 400,000 dollars for silver, 240,000 dollars for bronze. Special thanks to UA: The first is a social language with which we are working productively and constructively on the organization of the broadcasts. For the first time, Ukrainians will be able to see live performances of our athletes on the World Games. Tonight, we celebrate at the Postal Square, at the River Station, we are holding the National Assembly Team of Ukraine to participate in yet another very prestigious international competition of the Deflimpic Games that will take place in the Turkish city of Samsun. Our athletes have been debuting on these 1993 hearing - impaired athletes and have since held leading positions in the world’s deflimpic sports movement. I want both our teams to have a sporting nature and results. We're in pain for Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for saving time for colleagues, for asking the government questions, we now have more time, almost 40 minutes to communicate with the government. And now I'm announcing. I ask everyone to return to the session room. Dear colleagues, the Minister's speech has been concluded earlier and we will now have a record of the question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to the government. I take it everyone's back to their jobs. I'm announcing a record, an opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to our distinguished officials. National MP Kuprienko. Two minutes, this is the first and third deputies who signed up, Kuprienko, Omelchenko are handing Oleg the question. Please. The questions we have are, in principle, out of place. Oleg Valeriyovich, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u8	With respect to the Prime Minister, I will address our Prime Minister from the rostrum. I hope you're still giving the opposition a chance to say a word at least from the rostrum. Mr. Prime Minister, I have some very practical questions for you. Last week, I was in a number of areas of Cherkaščina, Kirovogradstina. Poltavstina, Chernigovina. People everywhere ask: How can they feed their families? The price of milk is 3.20-3.50 per liter of milk. They cut out a lot of cows. As Prime Minister, I want you to tell us what government policy is aimed at restoring the livestock of the large cattle in Ukraine. After Hitler, there were more cows than in Ukraine today. In 1947, 2 million cows, today, 1 million 800. These grants, which are budgeted, are not received by farmers, are received by large latifundists. I want you to tell the Ukrainian peasants what you're going to do to make it a normal price for milk, and what you're doing to raise cows in the village. Soon our cows' children will be like dinosaurs in skeleton museums. When the Ukrainian village appears, will the Ukrainian black cow be restored, or any other cow? That's the first question. And the second question. I have repeatedly asked you a question. The oligarchys Firtash, Ljöcken, and Boyko use free gas distribution networks built at the expense of the Ukrainian people in the villages. Free of charge, the government of Azarov handed them over, and today, under your government, they continue to use these networks for free, and the Ukrainians pay billions to finance the oligarchs. When will the government of Groysman return to the state administration of gas distribution networks and make their revenues go to the budget and work for Ukrainians rather than the oligarchs? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u9	Please, Mr. Prime Minister, give me your word. Please,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, is actually very much a problem in the country, and not just in agriculture. And it's clear that it's extremely important for us to have the full potential of agriculture: both in vegetation and in animal production and in processing, we've been able to make the most of it. I've literally recently created a working group from MinAPC that includes all the farmers' associations. Next week, we're going to have another meeting, and we're going to develop and present a targeted farm support program. I'd like this program to be formed by August 1. That's right, we've defined that term before. And it will include targeted support for animal farming, targeted support for farms. It is very important for us to give new impetus to the development of agriculture in rural areas, not large holdings, but directly small farms, which are to become the foundation of our agricultural sector. That's why we're dealing with this, we're presenting the approach, but this approach is going to be perfectly consistent with all the farmers' associations. So this is going to be a common product. I think we're going to go out in September by asking Parliament to make further changes to the country's budget, which we're going to present -- September, maybe October -- to finance. start funding such a program. The approximate and indicative budget for me today is clear, but I am deeply convinced that we have to increase the targeting and do everything we can to make this grant come to the level at which today's biggest problems are. Thank you for asking. As far as I'm concerned. Thank you. As far as pipelines are concerned, the question is not today or yesterday. I think it's very important here not to make legal mistakes that sometimes happen in these situations. We are now legally working to put things in place and correct all the inadequacies that have been made to us. And the point is that one of the Gas Laws has been passed, and now we need to adopt a law that will allow us to charge for the use of networks, which is very important. We are working today to cooperate with local authorities. also allow them to manage these networks at the level of cities, districts, and so forth. So as soon as we find the right legal solution, including with the support of the Ukrainian Parliament, we need a law that will allow us to collect payments for the use of these networks. We'll do it. And I would like to point out that if in the case of our work and we're looking at law enforcement agencies here, we're going to see that there were abuses of a legal nature during the transfer, we're going to be taking all the necessary legal measures immediately to get the state back into the state. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u11	Next question from MP Mishchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Sergei Mishchenko, 108th District, Kyivshina. Vladimir Borisovich, you know that there is now a very serious situation in many regions of Ukraine regarding the failure to pay compensation for hospital letters. Why? Because they're not here. For example, last week I was in the Borispil district, and I received dozens of people at the reception, but the Borispolska CRL did not have any hospital letters. Why? And because they weren't bought by Minchurt, he didn't have a tender. Today's tender: the 14th. It is said that he too will be broken. So now these people are asking me questions, and why should we feed our families? When do we change these instructions that the CRL publishes at the hospital when you make this tender? What queues are there in the hospitals? So is it sabotage or is it the Ministry of Health's inaction? Give me an answer. And the second. It's about milk. Oleg Valeriyovich, we are the authors of the bill, which was first read, ready for the second reading. Then the cow will appear when.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u13	Please. 15 seconds. 15!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u14	Thank you. Thus, when he prepares for the second reading, when he is put to the vote, the cow’s issue will be resolved in the village. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u15	Thank you. I had no information about the problem with the hospital letters. Thanks for the information, I'll check it out. Now I would like to ask Minister Ulyana Suprun to comment on the information provided by the Ukrainian national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u16	Good afternoon! Yes, the tenders have already been torn down twice, and it was sabotage, I understand that. We're still working at the Ministry so we can finish this job. When there was a tender, the court again had to recommence the tender, and the court again. This is the third time we've made a tender, and hopefully they'll be ready by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Ulyana. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Dehtyarchuk. And Dechtirczuk also gives the word to Mr. Matviyenko. I understand there's an addition to the government. Then I'll give you another word. Please: Mr. Matvienko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions from the humanitarian unit. Colleges are transferred to the local budget. This year, not all local budgets are clearly available. We supported these local budgets in small cities. Will there be a policy of supporting colleges to keep them in small cities where there is a budget deficit? The second question. We have to take advantage of our competitive advantages. Today, we have heard about our prospects for sports. One of the advantages is the bitlon. We spend millions preparing our athletes. There's no proper base. Can we count on September to allocate money to design such a base in Prikarpat in the Ivano-Frankiv region? We are ready to give our support. And for the next year, start building this base of your own and not spending money, but making money on other teams of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u19	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, for your question. As far as supporting education is concerned, if there are budgets that hold, that can't afford to finance, it's not their level at all. So here's the question of how to do this from the district budget. We need to see what the problem is and solve it locally. As far as the sports base is concerned. I support sports at all, and I can't deny the need to build new bases. As you know, this year we predicted 10 percent of the DFRD ( State Regional Development Fund, 10 percent for sports infrastructure. In yesterday's changes that we voted for the budget, there are, I think, 250 million to rebuild football fields, fields all over our country. So this is the condition of co-financing with local budgets. As far as sports bases are concerned. As for the bitlon, which is about sports bases, it takes more time for you to work with the Ministry of Sport, with the Ministry of Finance. I would not like to repeat the mistakes that have been repeated before. What's the point? They've already forgotten about financing, leaving, or leaving the zero cycle of construction, or they've just done a project. So I think our task, if we're doing something, we have to take it up and finish the construction. Now we're going to get Ohmatdit, this year we're going to finish it, and if it wasn't for our bureaucracy, we'd be done with Ohmatdit. As we get to the prenatal center in Lviv, we're going to finish it this year, we're now creating 13 cardio centers all over the country. We're getting started -- we're going to finish this job. I mean, it's very serious to make calculations so that we don't do any long buildings, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we start and finish projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, National MP Yatzenko asks questions. In principle, we ask questions from the point of view of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! I want to say, first of all, that when the state budget was voted yesterday, thank you for your personal intervention, we added money to treat oncological people abroad 86 million, and we added VAT and cohlear implantation. But there are many questions left, and I will remind you that Ukraine is the only country that today does not treat children 100 percent. And I would like to make sure that it's your premiere that we make the working group work in the fall, and we've made it stop on TV to see when people are forced to collect money or go into debt. So I would ask you very much if you could set up a working group right now, so that we could work in the fall, get Minshravt, the Minsocopolitics, the Social Protection Fund, other authorities, the Academy of Medical Sciences, institutes, public organizations. So that we can make this concept and finance it in the fall and continue to follow it, so that we can stop the situation when children who are forced to raise funds are forced to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u22	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u23	Thank you. To treat children 100%, as in all European countries. I think there's a lot of positive things done, and it's also done by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u24	Thank you very much for your question, you know, it's very important and very relevant. I think health is a priority in general, but children's health is a priority. So I think this initiative is good and faithful. And now I'm tasking Prime Minister Paul Rosenc to create one. to make a proposal to form such a working group, I will look forward to the proposals so that we can start a large-scale program of support for the treatment of children, children themselves. If we have technology inside our country, if we don't, it has to be abroad, but the kids have to be rescued, especially when it comes to serious diseases. I fully support and ask, Paul Valeriyovich, that you engage in, literally, the creation of such a working group. The task is solely to propose improvements in the treatment of children with severe illness. Thank you for your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Michael Bondar of the People's Front, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u26	Thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, 119th constituency. Vladimir Borisovich, I want to thank this government for the 280 million that have been allocated to miners. On August 27, 70 years, just as the miner's Day is celebrated, I hope that they will celebrate this day without debt on wages. But so that there will not be any such transfers and do-funds as if, on a salary basis, 800 million more mines will be allocated for modernization this year and another 100 million will be allocated to self-sustainers. So please, Vladimir Borisovich, pay attention to the miners, allocate the 800 million to the modernization and development of the new lava. And, I think that then the miners of the mine will go out on their own, and we won't have to fund them in the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. By the way, I'd like to, and for a comment, I'd like to point out that, as we promised, there are 100 million now in defense. for personal protection for miners. In September, when we prepare for the next budget change, we're going to add another 100 million to provide for all the needs that were created at 200 million. Thank you so much for your understanding and support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u28	Please, People's Deputy Lapin. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u29	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Minister, last month the Russian Federation introduced a law that obliges all foreigners, including Ukrainians, to register when leaving the Russian Federation. I mean, it's called a strong right. What will be our proper response to this law that has been passed in Russia? And the second question. Why do we simply answer rather than pursue more aggressive foreign policy? How much time does it take to introduce visas with the Russian Federation during the third year of the war? We spent an unprecedented amount on your department last year. This year, too, there are a lot of money in the budget for the department, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Once again, when will visas with the Russian Federation be introduced with the aggressor?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. The answer and not only the answer, but the plan for the future is approved by the Council of National Security and Defence of Decisions on the Establishment of an Integrated System. I emphasize, not a separate step, as anyone would like, namely, a system that provides for the removal of biometric data from foreigners and non-citizens, effective control of the movement of Ukraine's territory and other measures. This system will be carried out gradually, the stage after stage, and the usual introduction of the cart, and it's not only ours, but also our practice, it won't give us the effect that we want. On the contrary, he will create considerable problems. Significant problems in the context of what Russia will benefit from these problems will be used to make both provocations and willful policies to restrict Ukrainian citizens who live in occupied territory in the occupied Crimea territory to move to Ukraine. Therefore, a detailed analysis of this decision was made. And we think this decision is optimal. And that decision is supported by our friends and partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor. From Self-Help, the Semenich People's Deputy question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Simeon Semenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u33	Please turn the Seed Seed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u34	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, all three years of war Ukraine has been dependent on the supply of energy supplies from the occupied Donbas and the Russian Federation themselves. During the day, Ukrainian boys and girls were killed on the front, and at night, the line of separation was driven from occupied territory by trains from coal, metal, fuel. According to the U.S.S.A., 47 percent of all the money that was used to buy coal from occupied areas went to finance what was called coal. It's a budget called the LNR. A blockade on the occupation trade has stopped this. Yet Renat Ahmethov continues to import hundreds of thousands of tons of coal from the Russian Federation. The result of these operations is direct funding of the aggressor country's budget. Questions. When will government regulations to ban Russian coal imports be adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, it is difficult today to estimate how much shadow money was in the temporarily occupied territories when we exported our Ukrainian coal to our Ukrainian TEC for the production of electricity, heat, our electricity, our heat. It's hard to tell how there were processes when we were exporting all the components for Ukrainian metallurgy. But obviously, what we've done in that system is, on the one hand, to win time, to get rid of addiction, because we've understood since last summer that Russia's been blocking our resources, our Ukrainian resources, and everything we've done to create a strategic reserve. I can say exactly that on conscience, if it's perhaps not there, the organizers, and I think that the organizers of the blockade, the organizers, have a very direct bearing on the Russian Federation's services, one hundred percent of all our mines, the businesses that paid taxes in Ukraine, one hundred percent, are now working on the aggressor country's budget. And it's your personal merit, you call it 47 percent, 35 percent, I emphasize: 100 percent, thanks to you personally working on the Russian Federation budget today. That's the first thing you've done against our nation. So our task today is to continue the diversification of supply, to continue to replace fuel with other types of fuel, in order to fully load our miners with work in the country. But one more thing, thanks to you, Ukraine lost more than one percent of GDP, which is the cost of Ukrainian teachers, doctors. These are the security and defense costs of our country, so I think you have something to think about. And maybe the enemy country will introduce you or present you to the state reward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u36	Onufrik Bogdan Semenovich gives the floor to Nina Jujanini, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! As a result of the intensive work on the bill to amend the government budget for the second reading, we have achieved considerable success as a result of the amendments to all the factions that have joined the work. Perhaps for the first time in the budget committee, we have considered perfectly all the amendments that needed to be made for the sake of society. As a result, an increase of $24.5 billion in the planned rates of customs payments has been adjusted to be positive for road construction, to add 1 billion to socioeconomic development, to increase the cost of housing for family-type children's homes by 200 million, to increase the financing of Minosveti by 186 million, and to increase the treatment of citizens abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u38	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the very distribution of the special confiscate: 6 billion for the defence and security of the state, 4 billion for the rural health care programme, 1 billion for the financing of road construction -- that's the success we achieved together yesterday by adopting the law on second reading. I have a request to the government, but I'll work with you in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u40	Who Will Answer? Please don't distract the Prime Minister. Who will answer Jujana’s question? Okay, that was Nina Petrovna's wish, right? Turn on Nina Petrovna’s microphone was that wish or question? Wish. Okay. Thank you. Question to whom, tell Nina Petrovna, to whom? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u41	I asked that the following changes to the budget should be discussed with the deputies, and that there should be no shame like yesterday that was supported, that was not even known in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u42	Wish, right? Thank you. The next question is from. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Who? It's a noise, isn't it? Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like a moment of your attention. Mr. Prime Minister, please look at this graph, this is the drop in Ukrainian exports, which is constantly shrinking and becoming more primitive, more raw. We're in this room for the radical party's initiatives and for your support we passed the Export Credit Agency Act. According to the law, it was to be created by the government three weeks ago. The law is grossly violated. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you: when will the Ukrainian Export Credit Agency be set up, which will be awaited by car builders, car builders, military-industrial complex, aircraft builders, the entire Ukrainian industry? And the second question is, who will be responsible in the Ministry of Economics for breaking the law, who will resign? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u44	Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to thank you personally and to those who have been involved in developing an export strategy for three years and what we have done with you. The other one. The export strategy was presented publicly. Publicly and accordingly, decisions have been made regarding the real road map that we make. Three principles: first, competition, second, transparency, and third, creating an extra value chain. With regard to the question of assessing the activity of this direction of work, I think it will be done, it can also be done on the committee, it can be done on the government and it can be done on the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u46	Thank you. Eutusek Sergei gives the question to Ichchenkov. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u47	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, I have a great request to you from a large number of peasants. Please do not torpedo the Land Market Act. Let's see what the pie owners want today, let's look directly at the sociology they're presenting to us: most of them are against the land market, that's the first. The other one. I'm asking you very much to let us focus on some things. First of all, let's start improving land and land relations, once. The second is let's finally show how we support the farmer. Because the budget for which Fatherland didn't vote and did it right, there is direct support for a large producer or large integrated companies, there is no support for farmers. And the next thing I ask is for you to respond adequately to these things that happen to us through the raid. And if we don't perfect these moments, we can't even talk to you about circulation or the land market. Let's be perfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u48	Thank you. Thank you for asking. In fact, I would like to emphasize that we are in a fairly open dialogue today on the circulation of land, about the resistance to raiding. The government has recently adopted a number of regulations that have complicated any illegal action in relation to legal owners or tenants, so we are working in this direction. And I stress that the Land Circumstances Act should be adopted in the interest of the restoration of Ukrainian agriculture, which is very important. So once again, I want to emphasize, the widest possible dialogue, the absolute processing of this issue will allow us to enter the hall and take initiatives. So I'm stressing that we're doing very well here. Although I point out that Ukraine, agriculture, agricomplex need a new Law on land circulation and improvement of existing mechanisms, including rentals. Thank you. I'd just like to give you an answer. Stepan Ivanovich responded to export support. I couldn't go on with his answer. Well, first of all, I want to say that, really, our economy today is in a state of transformation. We're working on new markets and we're building our export potential. I can stress that recently, the ratification of the free trade zone with the European Union, the free trade zone with Canada, we are now working Turkey, Israel, with other countries. I think now we're going to start a dialogue on how to work with Britain on our exports after Brexit. The point is that we need to create additional export support mechanisms. And to do that, I thought about what I supported, the decision about the Export Credit Agency. As Stepan Ivanovich said, we are now working on introducing this agency and initiating a mechanism to support Ukrainian exports. For us, it is very important that we, from a raw type, when we export grain today, create mechanisms to support exports, not raw materials, but finished Ukrainian products. And that's what we're working hard on today, the economy is recovering, although we still have a lot to do to improve mechanisms, including access to real ones, I mean, both at long and low rates, credit resources. Thank you. We'll continue to work with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, five minutes. So this is obviously going to be one or two questions. Now it's Vadim Victorovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I'm sorry, I'm very concerned with the Cabinet Order 431, which regulates the strategy for the use of state land. In fact, it is a fine decision, and the earth needs to be organized. But there is one formula that completely makes it impossible to use the land for free privatization, land extradition. And the first social category that suffers from this is ATOs, they're ATOs. So this formula predicts the following. For example, it seems that 10, 100 hectares of land is leased out of auction and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u51	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u52	Percentage can be privatized free of charge. At the auction last year, 80 acres [80 ha] of everything was sold in Zaporozhye. The auction takes place once a quarter, making it virtually impossible for ATO participants to get the land that they were promised. So this is either going to have to be cancelled, or you have to make a separate settlement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u53	Thank you, thank you for your question. You told me about this a few days ago. I've given the proper commission, I think we'll do it. Although the decree itself states that outside any auction and so on, they have the right to receive this land as part of an anti-terror operation, ATO. But what needs to be improved, we will improve without any objection. What I would like to say on earth, dear friends. Yes, the government has made a number of tough decisions on land management. What's with the stiffness? Our rigidity is in our transparency. We have made decisions that fully ensure transparency in the allocation of land. In fact, these decrees are called upon to stop the debris of the land in the areas and areas of Ukraine. It's only about auctioning off land. It's public, it's open and it's honest. That is why this decree was introduced by the government today. What's happening to the ATO, let's work it out, let's improve it. We honor, respect our fighters, our heroes, and are willing to do our utmost to give them their dues. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u54	Thank you. And last question, colleagues, one minute. The word is given to Musia Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u55	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a personal question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, you have assumed full responsibility for being in office, sadly, in an illegal way to this day, since it has been a year, c.o. Minister of Health This is how I bring it to your attention that this lady you're holding is not only chronically ignoring committee meetings and not communicating with national deputies, but also an unprecedented action from yesterday. In the Ministry of Health, the head of the trade union confederation, along with the public organizations of ATO participants, tried to meet this illegitimate lady yesterday. They declared hunger. Yesterday and today she doesn't meet. Undersecretaries of the Health Ministry do not meet the public. Under the Ministry of Health, there is a chronic protest. Unfortunately, we can't influence that. Please give me an assignment to make sure it's not a pear action somewhere at a press conference, and a person would at least meet with those who are starving in the ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u56	Thank you for your question, Oleg Stepanovich. I'm assigning the Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenko. Paul Valeriyovich, I'd like to ask you to consider the presentation, assemble, meet the minister, the committee with those members of the committee who wish to do so. And work and remove all conflict issues. Thank you very much. And if there's a wish. Anything to comment on, Uljana? None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u57	Then please, Vladimir Borisovich, I invite you to the closing "hour of questions to the government." Turn on Vladimir Borisovich Groissman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! One minute of your attention, I have a very important message for you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I just wanted to thank you today. Since today is the last plenary day, I want to thank you, and especially for yesterday's vote, when we approved the changes to the budget that were very important. We've adopted a very important one. Another very important step has been taken: we have adopted a large-scale pension reform in our country that will allow the process of restoring justice, increasing pensions for Ukrainian citizens, giving due credit to those who have worked their entire lives and who are under-retirement today, and we have to return them. I would also like to emphasize that it was very important that the reform of medicine, the reform of education, was in order yesterday. These are reforms that are very important to people’s daily lives. These are reforms that are called upon to change the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. People have to get quality education, people have to get quality health care, people have to get quality pensions. This can all be accepted and accepted, I believe deeply, in the walls of this Ukrainian Parliament. In the fall, we will ask you, fellow dignitaries, to start our work with these two reforms: education, health care, and pension reform. Until then, these laws will be prepared for second reading. Some have already been prepared. And they're going to need our support with you to change the country. And in general, I would like to thank you once again for the resilience of the position. Colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, my friends, thank you all very much for supporting the legislative initiatives that the state needs today. Thank you so much for your understanding. Dear colleagues from the People's Front, the faction of the coalition, I am very grateful for the support of the government, the support of the Prime Minister, the support of decisions that are actually very, very important to Ukrainian citizens. I'm going to all factions and two coalitions. Friends, thank you so much! And I am convinced that in the fall we will continue with new forces to make good changes in our country. I also want to thank the groups and factions of the Ukrainian Parliament for the fact that from time to time we find them on different issues of understanding and you support them or make them better. Thank you, too, very much, for the vote. I dream and wish for all of us to stop dividing the hall from autumn into political colors, and we were united by the only flag of the state and the desire to make real decisions in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And I would like to personally thank the non-fractional people's deputies, the non-fractional people's deputies who support them, who help them, who fight for reforms, and who also share their success. So once again, Mr. Head, thank you, thank you for your time, thank you to all the people's deputies and work on it, change the country and look people in the eye. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u59	Thank you. Thanks to the government for the job. We want fruitful cooperation, new results. And on that "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Colleagues, I'd like to inform and consult you about our next job. Attention, please, colleagues. Attention! I'm going to propose to work today without interruption so that we can now consider for 30 minutes the two regulations that are, then 30 minutes, as provided for in the Rules, the reading of requests, and then the hour, as stipulated in the Rules, the speeches in the Miscellaneous, and at 13 o'clock, the colleagues. Is there any objection in the hall? There's a full consent. And that's why I'm announcing the order of consideration: 30 minutes, two decrees so that we can sign the laws; 30 minutes of parliamentary motions and the hour comes. And at 1:00, my dear fellows, I ask all the national deputies to come to the hall to close our plenary session. Sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. At 1 p.m., I ask everyone to come to the closing room. And I ask you to take this very seriously. Now we're moving on to the questions that we have two in order of the day. The first is the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22.06 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on municipal utility bills (4901). I would like to remind you that the law provides for a special consideration in the summary procedure. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u60	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. There are two aspects to this issue, there is an aspect of the quality and correctness of the law itself and there is an aspect of how it was approved. First of all, about how he bragged. This law was approved with a grave violation of the Rules, not all the amendments were considered, and more importantly, the amendments were very negative, which were piled up by this hall at my insistence, and then returned illegally to them, because it was a one-time action -- the collapse of the amendment -- and they pushed on. And at the last minute, this law was pushed by buttoning. What's the matter with the Opoblaka button? It's about how good this law can be if he's been hit by "The Cloud." And now essentially the law and why I insist on eliminating it, except for regulatory issues. This law provides for the installation of house counters at the expense of the consumer, since they will be entered into payments, i.e. the supplier will choose a cheaper or more expensive counter, a firm that will receive payment for installation, trust or replacement, and the consumer will pay for all of this. It also creates conditions for huge abuse, overpricing counters, and services for installing, trusting and replacing counters, uncompetitive (in paws) choice of their firms and again, all at the expense of consumers. Moreover, paying for the installation and maintenance of counters will include those who already have their own individual heating systems and (or) hot water supply, that is, those who do not actually use them. Moreover, it is stated that the consumer should also pay for the protection of this counter. Also, if you can save and use less heat than the Kabmin method in winter, even though you have a heat counter, you still have to pay more to reach this established Kabmin standard. 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u61	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u62	So this law is making consumer rights much worse. This law is aimed at supporting the monopolistic oligarchs in particular, and that's why this law was voted in favour of the Opposition Block, and this is only because of its 26 votes. I call on the Supreme Council to testify to its position and to reverse the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u63	Thank you. The co - report invites the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Phinenic, Pavel Vasilovich. There will be a discussion, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the committee considered the draft decree made by the People’s Deputy Levchenk. In his speech, the national deputy himself pointed out that the violation of the Rules, which had led him to make the relevant draft decision, had resulted in a vote, an impersonal vote of the national MPs, repeatedly expressed by the committee, and clarified the order in which matters related to the nonpersonal vote were dealt with. And he's asking to be determined whether to support or not the draft decision for the authorship of the People's Deputy Levchenk by voting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u65	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Capplin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u66	Honourable compatriots, the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party, the trade unions are, of course, supporting the ruling of a colleague of the People's Chamber of the People's Republic of Levechenk, and we confirm that this bill was conducted in an illegal, traditional, illegal way for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He is prooligarchitic, serving the interests of the anti - Ukrainian oligarhat. In particular, I would like to point out that all the expectations of the authors, those who inspired the Supreme Council to make the appropriate decision, and this process lasted for more than a year, have been drafted by the Supreme Council of Oligarchs for this bill for more than a year. So all of these oligartic clamps, all these oligartic mats that voted the right decision, can't count on people to just give up their rights. Today, at least in Poltava, we block the installation of public alarm clocks every week. Because this practice is totally unfair, it balances all citizens and a simple pensioner who practically consumes neither the heat nor the water and those who live in one apartment after five, seven times the consumption rate. We are for equality, for justice, and we will make sure that our next drafts are secured at the legislative level. And I want to talk about double standards separately. Remember, last time, a faction called the "cushion" faction broke its throat to prevent this decision from being taken. Where is this faction now? Where is this gang now in the Parliament Hall? There's no person, look to the right in the Radical Party sector, there's no MP who's supposed to give his votes right now and support the decision. Dear citizens, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u67	I give the floor to the representative of the Radical Party of Ukraine Popov Igor Volodimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The rapporteur on this issue, from the draft of this ruling, correctly raised two questions about the fact that this decree, it was criminal in fact and it was adopted in violation of the Rules. Unfortunately, this practice is becoming more common in the hall. If the bill is being prepared for the full cycle of public policy, if all the necessary calculations are being made, consultations, if alternative solutions are being considered, will find their support in the hall. If there are corruption schemes, if anti-national, anti-social decisions persist, then they can only be attracted by violations of the Rules, with buttoning, as was the case when this decision was adopted, which puts additional pressure on the Ukrainian family budgets. Of course, the Radical Party didn't vote for it, the fact that you can't vote for it is clear even to clowns who sometimes speak in this parliamentary room, you've just heard that. That is why I ask that further attention be paid to the compliance with the Rules, to the drafting of bills that comply with all the regulations, because we know that excessive tariffs for municipal services are the main, one of the main problems of the Ukrainian electorate. We allocated 14 billion dollars yesterday to close subsidies, but unfortunately, these funds will go to municipal monopolies. I was talking to the government that let's better fund a state programme to install individual heat counters, then every household can actually regulate how to save heat, how to save energy, how to do energy conservation. And those decisions would be much better than the ones we've made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u69	And, final address, from the Opposition Block, Storm Igor Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u70	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! We're all gathered in this session room to adopt or reject some kind of bill. The right to vote in favour of or against no one, nor the coalition representatives, cannot forbid opposition to do so, nor can the opposition prohibit coalitions from initiating certain legislative initiatives. As far as the bill on commercial utility accounting is concerned, I can tell you that this is not an individual bill. The drafters of this bill were a group of deputies from different political backgrounds, it was their motivational desire, except that, today, there is indeed a strain on family budgets to regulate these processes and regulated water control and heat supply should lead to fair pay for the use of these services. Maybe the people who are trying to throw stones at the people who support this bill today didn't get the point of the bill, because it doesn't apply to gas meters. But I'll tell you another thing, why some populists who are trying to separate the points that are bringing together the hall today and not mentioning that the Opposition Block has voted a number of legislative initiatives that support education that support medicine that supports the formation of the rule of law, there's no such thing. And going out on the rostrum and just like that, I'm sorry, for the rude word "past" and throwing away the word "disarm" for today, it's not going to work. And I have to tell you what this radicalism is all about in the performances and in the search for enemies, yesterday you saw those pseudopaths with those people who think a little differently start beating their own. We're putting an end to this disunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u71	The discussion is over. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'll remind you that these are the ones who are voting for this decree. It's important, let's do it under the next law, Vadim. He who upholds the law does not vote for the decree or vice versa. And I'm voting on the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22.06 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on commercial accounting for municipal services. Number 4901-P (decision), the committee requests that the vote be determined. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[11:19:09]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Draft Decree 4901 was rejected. And the following, the last of the rulings today, is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact as a whole the bill on the Constitutional Court (numbers 6427 and 6427-1). And I'd like to invite you to the interview. First, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u72	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. That disgrace, as this Supreme Council adopted yesterday, was one of the most important laws for the country -- the Constitutional Court Act, saw the whole country, saw all the Ukrainians. Yesterday all the attention of society was drawn to the Supreme Council and everyone saw how this law was pushed through the knee through the Supreme Council. The way some amendments were not put to the vote; the way they went back to the amendments that had been overturned; the way the buttons had been done. And by the way, the buttons were back from the extreme sectors under the balconies of the Environment, the People's Front. And why was it all done, why, with the voices of the regionals -- once again, by the voices of the regionals -- most of them pushed through this shameful law? And because this law strengthens the control of the Constitutional Court by the President of Ukraine, or, more broadly, by the executive branch -- both the President and the Kabmin, and other institutions. How judges will be appointed, how judges will be controlled, how much judges will pay and what kind of life support they will have, everything. – to judge the Constitutional Court, I stress, not all judges – all of this goes to the Constitutional Court, as it did yesterday and the day before, will continue to be fully subject to the executive power and especially to the President of Ukraine. In particular, much attention should be paid to the mechanism of the constitutional complaint. which is prescribed in such a way that any reasonable person will be able to repeal any law that the Supreme Council will adopt if this Supreme Council finally begins to enact some normal laws. Yes, because of these things, because of the violation of the Rules. Please, 20 seconds. Because of the violation of the Rules, because of the following:
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u73	Please, 30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u74	Because of gross violation of the Rules, the content of this terrible law cannot be missed. I urge all the deputies to testify to their position, even the few who are today, and to vote in favour of my stopping decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u75	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u76	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, Political Party "The Will" - "The Movement of New Forces". The Constitutional Court Act was approved at the plenary yesterday, with a gross, brutal violation of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Rules. And most of all, the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament becomes the norm that when such important bills are passed, factions compete in buttoning and the media determine who is the winner of this buttonage. It's also important that you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich, as well as Deputy Irina Heratchenko make the appearance that nothing is happening. Yesterday, the chairman of the plenary. Presidents, because both you and Irina Heratschenko were presiding, yesterday the chairman of the plenary sessions was severely violated by article 34, which guaranteed the right of national deputies to speak at the plenary session, as well as the opportunity to speak on behalf of the national deputies they insisted on. Little had happened yesterday, Mrs. Oli the Mantis, to the great regret of the speedy one, was not in the hall, and you, the honourable chairman, did not take that into account yesterday, and her card voted. I would like to state that you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, and Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko committed criminal crimes yesterday, which are covered by articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, are 365 -- exceeding authority or official powers, and article 351 -- is an obstacle to the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Which part? In that part that you didn't give the people's deputies the opportunity yesterday, on their request, to speak up, to defend your amendments. This means that you have grossly violated the Law of Ukraine, which is called the Rules of the Supreme Council. In this regard, honourable colleagues, it is unacceptable to adopt constitutional changes, the Constitutional Court Act, which is in grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Rules of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to support this decision today, this decision that's registered, and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u77	From the committee to the report, Pinzenik Paul Vasilovich is invited. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u78	Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, National Deputies Levchenko, Derevyanko, each submitted two drafts of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be adopted as a whole as a bill on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The procedure for the annulment of decisions of the Supreme Council is defined by article 48 of the Rules and provides for the request of the People's Chamber to the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for a violation of the Rules, the submission of a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as a draft decision. Both national deputies made appropriate statements, petitions, and statements. In the draft regulations, they note that bills have been adopted in grave violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the procedure for legislative activity. The committee has reached a conclusion on both projects, and they are at your disposal. And he's asking for a decision by voting, to be determined on these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u79	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Worm Olga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I will vote against this decision. I'll explain why. Yesterday, the Supreme Council actually retained the secret procedure for the election of the Human Rights Commissioner by voting by 227 votes. And this amendment became the body of the Constitutional Court Act. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I was very surprised, and we sent out more than 40 deputies to sign a letter to you and send you a letter demanding that you do not allow for forgeries to vote. Because what's happening on the Supreme Council site right now, this amendment is not available right now, it changes the name of what the MPs voted for. I would like to emphasize once again: People's deputies, 227 votes yesterday, voted in favour of the secret procedure for electing an ombudsman, dot. A number of law - enforcement organizations have declared this. This was highlighted yesterday at the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights. And I welcome the entire Parliament, and I welcome the entire people of Ukraine, that the Ombudsman will be chosen in secret. And this will allow him to preserve category "A," which is the highest category of defenders that will allow the Ukrainian Ombudsman access to all international missions to protect Ukrainian prisoners and Ukrainian hostages. And for those of you who wanted to do the contract yesterday, I'm sorry to bring this open procedure forward, and I want to tell you that the truth is still going to win, not you. And you're not going to try your own manipulations right now and try to control the penitentiary system and break the Ukrainian justice system. The Ukrainian Parliament and the National Deputies won't let you do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u81	Krulko Ivanovich from the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u82	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, if there were a number of votes in this session room, that determination must be supported. But unfortunately, it will fail, and this will pave the way for the Constitutional Court Act to be signed by the President. What happened yesterday? Last night, we witnessed the adoption of laws, not by personal vote, but by buttoning. What the Dignity Revolution was up against was what everyone promised when they entered this session hall, that everyone would vote in person, unfortunately yesterday was not a personal vote, including when voting in favour of this law. Of course, it's good that 227 votes were found, and the "Fatherland" faction voted in full to preserve the secret procedure for the election of the Human Rights Commissioner, the Ombudsman. That's good, and that's the only invitation in this law. But if the Constitutional Court, which had previously taken a decision by the entire college and had been the guardians, for example, because of the special opinion of each judge of the Constitutional Court, now you, the honourable deputies who voted in favour of this law, have given the opportunity to form a chamber of four judges who will form in manual form and these chambers will render a decision as the entire Constitutional Court. So these, when you count Kuchmi terms: 1 plus 1 is equal to 1, you're going to see flowers. Just as flowers will show up when returned in the unconstitutional way of delegating Yanukovich. Let's move on. The Constitutional Court is being usurped. The Constitutional Court will be fully governed by the Bank. And yesterday, during this disgraceful vote, it was this Parliament that, unfortunately, gave the Constitutional Court the opportunity not to strengthen its capacity, not to become more independent, but to become a serviceman against.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u83	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u84	Staff members against the interests of the Ukrainian people. Such a decision should therefore be voted on. And I'm asking at least those MPs who are in this room right now to vote for this decision to take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u85	And the closing statement, Storm Igor Mikhailovich of the Opposition Block. Aah! There's gonna be a show from the Radical Party. Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u86	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know all day today, he's not that tense, he's been calling from different political backgrounds to stop violating the Ukrainian Law of the Rules. I'll tell you, a dear coalition that in 300 votes began to work in this Parliament, that it's all called "the jealous of the Cossacks." From the beginning, I personally have a moral right to talk about it, I haven't once addressed you, I haven't had Vladimir Andriyovich in charge, I've been saying, "Stop trampling on the law of Ukraine on the Rules. You, if you have a short political life, I must tell you from my experience that such things will always turn against you. And it has not been two years since these violations of the Rules are now working against you, and you have begun to groan. Just recently, you acted the same way with regard to the Opposition Block. And as the previous speaker said, "there will be more." Now for the opposition block position. You have made a commitment to synchronize national legislation with European standards. You made that commitment. And today, in order for our legal system to have something similar to a civilized one, the Constitutional Court Act is one of the ingredients. There are so many comments to him. But we need to get this work started and move on. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned. So today, why doesn't someone who throws stones on the side of the Opposition Block say that the Opposition Block has supported this norm, and without us, this amendment wouldn't have gone away? So you don't have the willpower here. Stop the disunity and search for enemies in Ukraine’s session hall. There are people here who represent the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u87	Colleagues, we're already getting out of the framework that was foreseen. And we're just gonna move it. So I'll give it a minute, but in a minute. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. By "self-help" Olena Sotnik. From the rostrum, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. An honorary colleague from Fatherland said there was a shameful vote yesterday for the Constitutional Court. That's absolutely right. This is a disgraceful vote that allows President Dustynk to usurp his influence on the Constitutional Court. And that's an extremely bad and covert fact. Because any usurpation, the monopoly leads to dictatorship. And Ukrainians will not be subject to dictatorship. And too expensive a price will be paid for the desire of power to usurp influence. But at the same time, I would like to say that this is not the only disgraceful vote that took place yesterday in Parliament. Unfortunately, our colleagues from Fatherland supported yesterday's government pension reform, which raises up to 35 years of insurance, which gives us the right to a pension. Our colleagues from Fatherland and the Self-Help faction supported a pension reform that effectively deprives millions of Ukrainians of the right to a pension. Instead, you voted, your honorary colleagues from Fatherland to add almost a billion dollars to the prosecution's office. Instead of giving people, workers, you gave this billion to the prosecution. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u89	Please, Olena Sotnik, one minute. And from Fatherland, Yvchenko is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u90	In fact, voting for Ukraine's "unconstitutional court" yesterday was typical fraud. Fraud when the work of the national deputies was virtually ignored. Notice that this is not the only law that was considered by the committee and 99 percent of the amendments proposed were rejected. And they weren't on the committee, they were actually rejected on the Bank. Because as such, there was no bill on the committee. This project is, more specifically, now it will soon become, unfortunately, the law, the final cementing of the impact and the possibility of the President and his people justifying the unconstitutional decisions that have been taking place for the past 2.5 years. What you've done is you've finally put a dot on a non-existent, non-working Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u91	And, colleagues, the last of the Fatherland. You just had a self-help speech. From Fatherland, and all the factions, the groups will speak. And we'll move on to the vote. Colleagues, then you'll ask me, give me more time to ask, give me more time to speak. And that time will be no more. Please, Yvchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u92	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the cynicism of the chief radical is beyond bounds. Or should he be responsible for not personally voting in favour of Mr. Dobkin, a partner of Mr. Ahmedov, a financier directly to the Radical Party. Look, please, in the mirror before you go out to this rostrum. "Paternity" supported the first reading, taking into account the committee's proposals, directly social policy, which says that a five-year retirement period has been granted since November. And we'll come back to that question when we vote in general. We want to understand the concept of how pension reform will take place in the country. We gave it a chance and we gave it a chance. And before you go out, please look for the budget vote, where you directly influenced your vote to destroy the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u93	Give me 10 seconds and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u94	. To collect from the peasants, from the villages of the tax, all the basic taxes. And the main thing is to give the two large integrated holdings 2 billion. It was easy to give these holdings 2 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u95	Guys, what are you doing? What are you doing? What's that for? What's that for? It wasn't a replica, it was a faction act. Colleagues, pay attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, one minute. One minute, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction and I are the authors of the Moratorium Act banning the sale of agricultural land. And I thank Parliament for supporting this bill. We're against selling Ukrainian land and owning corporations, transnational latifundists. The Radical Party team initiated changes to the Constitution, 175 Ukrainian national deputies signed an agreement to recognise farming as the foundation of Ukraine’s agricultural system. Regrettably, under these changes to the Constitution, farmers should be the owners of Ukrainian land, not signed by Julia Timoshenko himself. And I have an explanation why she didn't sign. Because, as Prime Minister, she introduced the Ukrainian Land Sales Act to Parliament, that is, they wanted to decimate the land. Yesterday, Julia’s distinguished team, Timoshenko, voted in favour of a government pension reform that deprives millions of pensioners of the right to a pension. And it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u97	Thank you, colleagues. This has to be stopped. We're going through a formal thing. Colleagues, you've had the same two performances. Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please stop, let's go to the vote. Everyone, please stop. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put both decisions to the vote. And I'm the first to vote on Decree 6427. Whoever supports this ruling, please vote, vote. [[11:39:39]] For-54 The decision is not made. 6427-d-P is rejected. Second Decree 6427 (Deputy) P1. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[11:40:07]] For-51 The decision is not made. Decree 6427-d-P1 has been rejected. And, colleagues, you know, I've had a lot of references, and I want to say something important to you, too. As we've just considered the Constitutional Court, I think yesterday in an extremely difficult atmosphere, but we've considered it in full procedure, as is the case with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that I've looked at it and I've put it under conditions when the rostrum has been blocked and when any performance has been interrupted with a megaphone. Nevertheless, each of the right - wing authors who was on the scene received the word and had the opportunity to speak. I'm not going to hide, I'm going to turn to the right-wing authors the day before, and I've asked them to minimize these changes. Why? Because I'm afraid that we're thousands of right-wing people are going to get the absurdity of the atmosphere when it seems to many that it's impossible to go through the Rules, which is going to be a permanent collapse. We need to learn to work adultly and responsibly. I want to thank all right-wing authors, by the way, because we demonstrated yesterday that, in difficult circumstances, we can adopt a law, whether we support it or not, but we can follow it fully under the Rules. And despite the fact that I emphasize once again what was the atmosphere in the hall, we were able to go through that path of full discussion. And I want to say one more thing, what he said yesterday. Friends, I don't think it's right for a loudspeaker to come out of the audience, but I don't think it's right. This means that under any law this can happen, regardless of the political power it is. I won't hide it, one day in this room I was talking to the megaphone, it was during the Harkow Agreements, but it was a matter of great importance, it was the beginning of a war against Ukraine. And it was no longer a question of Parliament, it really was a question of protecting the state from the invader. But when we think about using this technique, it's a path to nowhere, it's a path that won't have any prospects. So I ask my colleagues to respect when we work in this room and have respect for each other. And I have a huge amount of effort to make, and yesterday was not easy for me, it was a very difficult day for us to get through yesterday. But I think we're learning and gradually going to, more respect for each other, more understanding and respect for parliamentaryism, as a phenomenon, and we can work even more effectively. So, colleagues, now I want to consult you on one question. We have an hour and twenty, but we have MPs and about 50 deputies have asked me to read them. I would have asked you not to deny that we would have taken twenty-40 minutes from that hour to read the queries, we should have arrived, and 40 minutes to perform, I think that would be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u98	[[From the Hall]] Half an hour's notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u99	I know, that's why I'm asking, guys. Then, for half an hour, the questions and 50 minutes of the speech, half an hour of the enquiries and 50 minutes of the speech. Thank you. Now I'm handing over the word Oksani Siroid to read the queries. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u100	Ask the national MPs. Oleg Velikin to the President of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of office and the termination of the terms of office of the Head of the district government of Valery Mozgow. Requests to the President should be supported by a vote. Please prepare to vote in favour of requests. I would like to vote in favour of the President's request. Please. [[11:44:22]] For-54 For 54. The decision is not made. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the President of Ukraine on the removal of the "not subject to publication" and on the removal of all classified legal acts by the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for former national deputies of the U.S.R. and the USSR, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and members of their families, who calculate pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the termination of the payment of pensions to these persons. Please vote in favour of this request. [[11:45:13]] For-67 67-yes. The decision is not made. Ruslan Solvar to the Director of the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the restoration and involvement of DP'NDI'Buran, which develops aircraft for civil and military aircraft in the interests of the defence of Ukraine. Sergey Ljovczyn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical level of government debt. Sergey Rudika to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to implement the project to ensure the availability of medical supplies and to implement compensation in the Kamyansk, Smiljansk, and Cherkask regions of the Cherka region, as well as in the city of Kamyanka and Smilil. Jaroslava Dubnević to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister, for the allocation of funds in 2017 for the reconstruction of Building No. 7 of Military Town No. 17, Sambir, John Frank Street, 31 - B under the residence. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the prosecutor of the Lviv region, the head of the National Police Department in the Lviv region, for the provision of prompt, full and impartial investigation into the murder of a citizen of Vladimir Nakoncny. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine, for the creation of the information portal "Public Forest Cadastre Map". Paul Dziblik to the head of the State Architectural Inspection. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine for the creation of the information portal "Public Forest Cadastre Map". Paul Djublik, head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding ignoring the requirements of land law and urban construction. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of state property of PAT "Polaron". Paul Kishkar and Viktor Krivenk to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine to verify the status of the construction of the water pipeline in the city of Vasilkov at the expense of the state budget. Paul Kishkar to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Energy Customs Department of the State Fiscal Service, the Ministry of Economic Development and the trade of Ukraine for the lifting of sanctions from GAZTRON-Ukraine. Alexander Vilkula to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the procedure for the review of the project Decision No. 3864 on the renaming of the city of Dnipropetrovska Dnipropetrovska District during the plenary meeting held on 19 May 2016. Mr Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on bringing the fixed subsistence minimum social pension for disabled persons into line. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of emergency sewers in the Dergachev region of Kharkiv. Jurya Solovya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the conditions for admission to higher education in Ukraine in 2017. Oxanas Bilozer and Dmitr Bilocerkovec to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the use of urgent measures to preserve history, architecture and the construction of the local value of the Cane Hotel on the street. Chrystec, 40/1 in Kiev, who suffered as a result of the fire on June 20, 2017, as well as the imposition of responsibility on individuals whose actions or omissions have caused a serious damage to the object. Oksana Bilozer and Eugene Ribczynski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Predicting in the Ukrainian National Budget Project for 2018 the cost of restoration, rewriting and publishing archival audio recordings of the famous Ukrainian singer Boris Grmiri. Oleg Velikin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of office and the termination of the authority of the Head of the Zgurov District State Administration, Valeri Mozgow. Boris Kozir to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railways, for ensuring the right to purchase electronic tickets to citizens of all categories of benefits. Boris Kozir to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal land capture and aquaculture. Borislav Bereza to the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities regarding an unjustified increase in gas prices. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the purpose of justifying the increase in the maintenance of buildings and instigating areas in Kiev. Alons Schkrum to the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy and Justice on the work of the working group to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law on Media (registration number 3665, 17.12.2015) on the basis of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the Poltava District State Administration on the use of effective measures to prevent the closure of water supplies for the inhabitants of Poltava. Dmitri Schencev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the existing debt for the benefits and housing subsidies granted to the population and on the provision of adequate collateral for the allocation of Dvorican District Budget expenditure for the implementation of State social protection programmes. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funds for educational subsidies to the city of Chugoviv Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u101	I thank my honourable colleague, Mrs. Siroid. And I'm going to keep reading the questions. Anna Romanov to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Service for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the legality of the transfer to the state of ownership of land located in the recreational zone of Montenegro and the conformity of their intention to forget the requirements of legislation. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State's damage caused by the illegal sale of industrial assets purchased at the expense of the World Environment Fund grant to Ukraine and their compensation by former owners of the company Pat "Nord". Victor Vuka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to return to Ukraine of national relics, the remains of Jaroslav Wise and St. Wetlands smuggled out of Ukraine during Hitler’s invasion of Germany during World War II. Jury Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the non-admission of compulsory write-offs at the expense of local debt budgets to the State Budget for medium-term and non-performing loans of about 9.0 billion dollars. in the year 2009-2014, which was the result of Minfin's calculations. Jurya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister on the need for full debt repayment and adequate provision of local budget allocations for relief and housing subsidies. Constantine Jarinić, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, to take urgent measures to ensure timely access for patients with cardiovascular and vascular diseases to life-saving medical supplies and medical devices in the Kirovograd health care facilities. Natalia Weselowa and Ruslan Solvara to head the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the use of measures and the introduction of convenient routes for the railway connection of Mariupol Kiev, Mariupol Odessa, Mariupol-Lviv, which will allow to shorten the time of being on the road and solve the question of replacing/repairing the mobile warehouse. Oksana Korczynska to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the inadequacy of building a new hospital of the National Guard of Ukraine in Zaporozhye and signing a contract between the National Guard of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the issue of medical care. Jury Lewchenka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Government for the non-elimination of the Museum of the Ukrainian Revolution 1917-1921 years NMIU in the building of the Ukrainian Central Council and for the non-retraining and/or changes in architectural forms of the building. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Odessa District Public Administration, Odessa City Council, the Odessa Region Roads Service on the need for a re-examination and an objective response to the collective address of residents of buildings 19, 21, 23, 31, 41, 43 "A" and the district "B" of Kyiv district of Odessa on the complex area of inter-quartered passage along the 13th tram between the Street of the Academy of Queens and the Avenue of Marshall Zhukov, where there is a general education school No. 63 and kindergarten No. 211, along the tram line for school and tram stops "Academics of the Royal and State of Justice for the welfare of other children", and the maintenance of children's buildings. Roberta Gorvato to the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures related to the introduction of the European Union of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens and the implementation of Presidential Decree No. 146/2017 of 26 May 2017. Natalia Novak to the head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine. Oleg Petrenko to the Minister of Social Affairs for information on the state distribution. State budget funds in financing the activities of public organizations and other associations of war veterans, war participants and war invalids. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to restore the rights of citizens with phenylketonuria. Yurya Bereza to the Buchan City Head of Kyiv District on the legality of refusing the education department of the Buchan City Council of Kyiv district in the admission of Philo Timothy Yuriovich to the preschool educational institution (jasla-zadok) of the combined type No4 "Prolesok" of the Buchan City Council of the Kyiv Region. Victoria Voytzicka to Henprocuror Ukraine on the examination of the procedure and the results of the privatisation of Pat “Westenergo”. Maxima Efimov to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Pension Insurance for Internally Moved Persons. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of the drinking water and artesian well in the village of Kiriyivka Lubarski district, Žitomir district. Victor Razwadowski to the Zitomir city head, head of the Zitomir district government on the implementation of the internal and external lighting measures for buildings and adjuvant areas on the street of Kroshenska in the city of Zitomir. Groups of National Deputies (Palamarchuka, Kiskara, Krivenka) to the Supreme Council of Justice for a lengthy hearing of the complaint against the judges of the Kirov District Court of Kirovgrad. Mikoli Palamarczuk to Henprocuror for failure to execute a court order and failure to conduct a proper judicial investigation into criminal conduct by the officials of the Kiev City Prosecutor's Office. Jegora Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance on the Prohibition of the Import of Energy Coal from the Russian Federation. Alexander Onishchenka to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region, the head of the Kyiv District Council on the rightfulness of establishing fishing grounds of 7,271 hectares of the State Enterprise "Godhuslav Forest Farm" in the area of the Rockitnian region of Kiev for the "Thinking Farm" of the "Thinkers and Fishermen". Vadim Yvchenk, acting head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, is responsible for providing information on the distribution of the budget grant for the development of agricultural products and the promotion of agricultural production. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Public Shareholders Association of Ukrainian Railways, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the provision of free documents to small children in the city of Marinka Marin district of Donetsk. Jacob Besbach to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the need for a comprehensive examination of the long-term failure to execute a court decision. Olesia Long to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, on legislative support for the development of industrial parks. Olesia Long to the Lightwater City Head, the Poznan City Head, for the introduction of an electronic ticket. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister for the redistribution of the rent for the special use of forest resources in part of the wood, which is made in order of the cutting of the main use. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister for preventing the destruction of small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. Valeria Davidenk to the Prime Minister on the urgent need to restore the stable work of the "Irwantian Torfo factory" company Chernigovtorf by granting it legal status as a legal person in the "Chernigovtorf". Alexander Opanasenka to the Prime Minister for the DP "Lasurne Agricultural Enterprise". Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister on the urgent use of measures to ensure the timely provision of coal to the population and to the Odessa region's budgetary institutions, the lack of speculation and the baseless increase in the price of solid fuel. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the acquisition and installation of the first stationary haberdashery complex in the death of Sarat Sarat in the Odessa region with the aim of preventing traffic accidents and the destruction of road paintings on the repaired sections of the M-15 Odessa-Reni International Road (Bucharest). Constantine Usova to the Minister of Education for Subsidy to the State Budget in 2017 for the development of project and cost-effectiveness documentation for testing and repair of the building of the teaching and manufacturing workshops (hereinafter referred to as the NM) of the Technicum. Jury of Macedonia to the head of the Winnitsk City Court of the Vinnitsk Region for information on the activity of the judge of the Winnitsk City Court of Winnitsk district of Kurbat Irina Leonidivna. Jury of Macedonia to the Winnitsk City Court of Winnitsk district for information from January 1st 13th to June 12th 17th. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District Administration, Head of the Road Service in the area, Head of the Lviv District Council for repair work on the road to the general use of Brody-Radekhov-Redograd near the village of Berlin in the region of Lviv. Groups of National Deputies (Bondara, Timoshenko, Veličkovica) to the minister of youth regarding the construction of a sports base in the Bouquet region of Lviv, an area adapted for people with special needs. Andrija Lopushanski to Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Finance, Head of the Lviv District Government on the problems of implementing educational reform in the general educational institutions located in the mountainous region. Andrew Lopushanski to the head of the Lviv Observatories on how to resolve problems with passenger transport in the Skolovo region. Jurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for testing the quality of food. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Education and Science on improving the national and patriotic upbringing of children in the elderly children's camps, eliminating language-legislature violations by banning the use of Russian-speaking programs in their work and creating a Ukrainian-speaking environment in such institutions. Sergey Melniczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprosecutor for the inaction of law enforcement authorities during the investigation into the murder of Elijah Pazuyuk. Vitalia Cupria to the Head of the High Council of Justice, Henprosecutor for the destruction of the rights and control functions of Ukrainian national deputies by Ukraine's judicial system. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the restoration of government price regulation for essential products. Anatolya Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister - Regional Development Minister to address the situation with regard to the installation of house appliances for gas accounting and the cancellation of unfair payment for gas to consumers. Group of National Deputies (Korczynska, Petrenka and others), to the Prime Minister for the urgent repair of road cover in the Donetsk Region in the ATO zone. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the absence of botulinum antitoxin from UNDP as humanitarian aid in Ukraine's health facilities. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister regarding the failure of officials of the Ministry of Defence to execute the legal decision of the court on the one-off financial assistance of a war invalid, which significantly undermines the authority of the authorities of the state. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for providing information on the occasion of the adoption day of the Interfractional Parliamentary Union "Protection of the Rights of Children - the Priority of the State". Jury Miroshnicka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for the removal of standards in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that conflict with the requirements of the Family Code and violate the right of the child to be adopted. Jury Miroshničnka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the removal of standards in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are contrary to the requirements of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his special status. Victoria Sumar to the Prime Minister on the problem of distribution of national film production. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the restoration of oil and gas licences for the Gdynic gas refinery of the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the conduct of an impartial and complete investigation into the death in the area of an anti-terrorist operation by a military officer named Petrik Sergiya. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Prime Minister for the elimination of pension rights violations for citizens who have moved from a temporarily uncontrollable territory and an ATO area and have subsequently renounced the status of internally displaced persons. Sergia Dunaev to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, temporarily acting as Director of the State Enterprise Krennergo for information on the progress of construction in the Lugansk Power Substation 500 kW Kreminska. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister for the proper, improper retirement of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Volin Regional Public Administration, Head of the National Police Department of the Volinsk Region, Head of the Volin District Council for the possible illegal transfer of land to the Tsuma National Park under hunting conditions. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the allocation of additional funds from the State budget for 2017 for the development of the transport infrastructure of the border region of Suma. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister for the cessation of illegal blockage of the work of the Kachanov Gas Reprocessing Plant PAT "Ukrnafta", located in the district of Ohtyr district of Suma. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister for ensuring reliable electricity supply to the Lugansk region in the event of the loss of part of the energy infrastructure in the east of Ukraine as a result of military action. Yuri Boyka to Henprocurorate on uncontrolled, mass and unfortunate deforestation, the need for immediate intervention in the situation of law enforcement agencies, and the use of effective response measures. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to create a joint fund of direct investment between Ukraine and China as part of the "One Belt, One Way" project. Gregory Times to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the legitimate rights of residents of the villages of Kamyanka, Kupka, Korchevci, Suchevena, Old Wolfhound of the Deep Area on the unhindered use of roads of general use that cross the forest of the Petrovec Forest of the Stražineck Forest. Grigory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent arrangements for the organisation of adequate access by Ukrainian citizens, especially senior citizens, in rural and hard-to-reach areas, particularly in the region of Dubrovnik to financial (banking) services. Vasil Guljava is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to agree on the illegal removal of 2.5 hectares of land at the State Institute of Children's Special (Special) Sanatorium "Lustdorf" of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Anatoly Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister on the settlement of issues concerning the restoration of lost social guarantees to former employees of the structural units of the State Holding Company "Alexandriaugil" in Kirovograd. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Regional Development, Construction, Minister of Finance for Debt owed to Hmeljna District Housing. Sergia Labazuk to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Affairs, Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Finance for the preparation of a project to amend the budget and tax codes with a view to identifying the characteristics of the formation of the budgets of the unified Hmelni district communities. Vadim Yvchenk is in charge of the head of the Ukrainian State Service on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the provision of information on the administration of land for agricultural purposes. Igor Lapin to Henprocuror for the tests of the U.S.B.S. Fedor Negoya to the Prime Minister for the conservation of Hersonian forestry enterprises in state ownership. Wadima Nesterenko to the Prime Minister for the financing of repairs on the Dnipropetrov region's roads. Vadim Nesterenka to the Prime Minister on the critical financial situation of the City Municipal Enterprise KP "Novoskovsktepleenergo". Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, head of the Zitomir district government for the allocation of funds for repairs and the restoration of the roof of the apartment building in Doubish Street, 26, destroyed by fire. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, head of the Zitomir government for the settlement of the housing issue and for the provision of comprehensive assistance to the multi-child family who suffered from the fire. Sergey Lechchenka to the Prime Minister on the clearance of humanitarian aid provided to the Gluhov Central District Hospital by the "Ukraine in the Netherlands. Sergey Lechchenka and Victoria Voytzicka to Henprocuror Ukraine on searches in TAKROM UKRAINE and obstacles to the activities of Romanian investors in Ukraine. Vasil Gulyav to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets in the field of non-planned state oversight (control) as a result of the activities of the financial company Pat’FK STS - Investment’. Taras Batenka to Henprocuror, head of the Lviv district government, on the urgent solution to the problem of the illegal capture and self-destruction of the coastal protection strip of Lake Zadrožně, located near the city of Mikolayev in the Lviv region. Irina Efraemov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for help in the treatment of Ostapchuk Igor Anatoliyovich, namely, an urgent bone marrow transplant. Maxim Burbak to Henprocuror for investigating the illegal transfer of gas to the PAT "Chernivitzigaz" in the 11th year by the City Council of Second Neck. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need to protect the rights of the participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, the disabled of the second Linnick Group for the calculation and appointment of a pension according to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Rubižan City Court of Lugansk. Julia Yooffe to Henprocurorate on the need to protect the interests of members of the Association of Co-owners of the House "Budwells 22", the city of Rubižne Lugansk district. Vladimir Aresonkov to Henprocuror for the proper enforcement of the functions of the State in the field of land relations. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen the requirements for farming entities operating in the field of wood production in a rhetorical manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u102	Colleagues, 30 minutes to read queries, are complete. Two more will read Ira, and we'll move on to the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u103	Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in the 17th year of construction and capital repair of social sites in the Tarastian, Stavistenski and Skuri district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the need for additional subsidies to medical institutions in the region of Kyiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u104	Thank you. Colleagues, have you read Oxan's announcement? Now I'm asking everyone who wants to speak at the Miscellaneous to prepare for the recording. Please, colleagues. Please take your seats, get ready for the recording, who wants to be in the Miscellaneous. And I remind you, we have 50 minutes till 1:00. At 13 p.m., I request all national deputies to attend a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to close the session. Please hold the recording, we'll have 50 minutes to make the speech. Please record. A recording was made. It takes 50 minutes to get to the first hour, and at one, I ask everyone to come to the closing room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u105	Mr. Kulichenko gives the floor to the National Deputy Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u106	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Now I want to draw your attention to the state of affairs of the only state company in Ukraine that's looking for and developing uranium and other strategic raw materials, it's about the latency company Kirovgeology. Together, we have to do everything we can to prevent the complete collapse, bankruptcy and looting of a state-owned company that has a 60-year experience of geological exploration, geological exploration and geological exploration in many countries of the globe. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I received information from the employees of this company about the criminal intentions of some of today’s directors of a state company to bring the enterprise to complete bankruptcy, so that I could then acquire its property, property, and land on which the company’s manufacturing base is located, particularly in the Kikwidze Cave district. As the employees of Kirovgeology have told me in their numerous addresses, the main initiator and the inspired instigator of the deliberate destruction of a once promising and profitable casino enterprise is its current leader, Vitaly Nelega, who was assigned to this post as CEO-general in June 2016. In particular, at the time of appointment as director - general, he had neither vocational education nor the experience of working in such a high - tech field as the development and extraction of beneficial fossils. In the past, Vitaly Nelga was known by the media as one of the main raiders of Ukraine's only insulin-producing plant Indar. Because of the incompetence and ignorance of the new director - general, the company immediately left an entire group of leading specialists holding on to the entire scientific and geological exploration potential of the enterprise. In view of the fact that the company's team is addressing the members of the Supreme Council with a request to intervene in the situation, to protect the leading Ukrainian enterprise from the development and production of KP "Kyrovgeology" uranium from destruction, looting and sale of its assets and land. I ask you to consider my statement as an official parliamentary request to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, requiring a comprehensive and comprehensive examination of the facts in my statement, in order to prevent the eventual destruction of a unique geological state enterprise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u107	Thank you. Now he has the word Halasyuk. But we've got a few more shows to do with the Wolf, who's handing over the Halasyuk. So I ask the Wolf to cancel, and the time of the Wolf is passed on to Galasyuk for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u108	Dear Ukrainian people, fellow countrymen! Yesterday we adopted an extremely important, important strategy for the Ukrainian industry, a metallurgical law. The increased duty on metal scrap exports continued for another year. This will allow Ukraine’s metallurgical factories to provide raw materials, people with jobs, and the Ukrainian Armed Forces with the necessary technology and weapons. He was admitted after the President vetoed him. I am very grateful to all members of Parliament who have supported this initiative of the Radical Party faction and have taken a step towards meeting the Ukrainian mining and metallurgical complex, the Ukrainian industry. On the other hand, I would like to welcome the Ukrainian metallurgy with their professional festival, which will be celebrated in two days. On your hands, on your shoulders is the stability of the bracelets, the stability of prices, and this is the basis for the growth of the Ukrainian welfare, the development of the Ukrainian industry. It's extremely important that you and I, your colleagues, in this room, have not put the pressure of foreign partners on the President's promises to these foreign partners to abolish the moratorium on exports of unprocessed roundwood from Ukraine. It's very important that we have preserved the Act banning the export of roundwood that you and I have adopted in this room. Because he's working for Ukrainian citizens today, for the benefit of Ukrainian industry and economy. He has increased taxes to the budget by 20 percent, he has created thousands and tens of thousands of additional jobs in woodworking, and in adjacent areas in various regions of Ukraine. He's already made billions of investments in the Ukrainian economy because new and new productions are being created. There has been a 2.5-fold increase in investment in the woodworking sector, resulting in a moratorium on the exports of roundwood that you and I have adopted. There were meetings yesterday with Mr. Dobrowskis, Vice President of the European Commission, to lead the factions and groups. The next time there was a question that the condition that the following European Union loans were granted was to withdraw the moratorium on the export of roundwood, there was also a warning to the Europeans under the legislation that we had accepted with you about the increase in the export duty on metal scraps that I was talking about. Yesterday at this meeting, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, made it absolutely clear to the European Commissioner that the Ukrainian Parliament would not allow a different moratorium on the exports of roundwood, would not allow a reduction in the export duty for the exports of metal scraps that we had accepted in this room. Because it is in the interests of Ukraine's national security, it is in the interests of the Ukrainian economy, and I stress, in particular, that it is in full compliance with Ukraine's international obligations both within the framework of the World Trade Organization and within the framework of the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. But such anti-crisis measures and such sectoral initiatives are not enough, so we have to move the sector by industry, the region by region to restore the Ukrainian industry and the economy. To do this, you have to have system tools, you can't do this at the level of slogans and at the level of promises that power makes, and you really don't do anything about it. You and I in this room last year passed the law on the Expert Credit Agency, its goal is to create a mechanism through which Ukrainian producers will receive cheaper loans with partial interest compensation. Because of this mechanism, Ukrainian machine builders, shipbuilders, aircraft builders, the military-industrial complex, they will be able to compete in the external markets through insurance and export guarantees that will give this agency a violation, it has not yet been created into a direct violation of this law. Today, I have officially addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a request for an end to the rule of law, an immediate establishment of the Export Credit Agency, and we want to hear who personally in the government is responsible for this failure in the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the failure of the support mechanism in Ukraine for the European industrial regime. In addition, our team of the Radical Party has offered a systematic, complex and bold industrial reform package, which consists of such initiatives as industrial parks to create attractive conditions in Ukraine to create new productions, so that we can compete with Poland, Turkey, Slovakia and even Belarus, which is going to beat us in the direction of industrial development today. We've proposed removing artificial tax burden from industrial investments in order to free imports of equipment from import duties and import VAT schedules for three years. This is very important for investments in Ukraine, not just loans from the International Monetary Fund or the European Union. For which we are required by what is not in favor of Ukraine. In addition, we have submitted to Parliament a bill on a new model of networking for investors, so that manufacturers do not rob monopolies in order to ensure that this connection is fair and must be free of charge to an investor, because the information ingredient is already being paid for in the tariff. This is true in the United States, in Israel, and in other successful lands. We need, in life, to accept this industrial reform package and to fully implement the anti-crisis economic development plan that the Radical Party team has proposed to the President, the head of Parliament and the government then will give Ukraine a qualitatively new standard of living and a perspective for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Sergey Leschenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u110	Dear Ukrainian citizens, thank you very much to those of you who have been supporting anti-corruption rallies in parliament, in social networks, throughout Ukrainian society. Indeed, today we have tried, this week we have tried to live up to the same promise that all political leaders have made in the elections -- undoing the inviolability. But neither the radical Oleg nor the Burbak, who likes to cover the corrupts, nor the leadership of the Prashenko Block faction, have signed their signatures under the law of Yuri Lewchenk and other MPs on the abolition of parliamentary immunity. It's your choice, but it's already 150 signatures, and this Parliament should vote for the inviolability. It was time to keep the promise that everyone had made in the elections. With regard to the previous meeting, it was only by our indifference that we saved the anticorruption office from destruction. There was a script yesterday to assign a pocket audience and by autumn, cancel, remove today's leadership, disenfranchise them, and make the MPs unpunished. You've seen the whole country see how MPs who came to Parliament are elected. [[B in m in s a l in]] They are elected to Parliament to protect their corruption interests. You see how they come here to be unpunished in their actions, how they vote, and how they rehearse when they call their names. But that won't stop us. In addition to undoing the inviolability, it was time to fulfill another promise that everyone had made: changes to the Electoral Law. How did these corrupters get in the first place? We and my colleagues, Svetlana Zalitschuk and Mustafa Najem, were in 102 districts and saw one of the figures of the investigation -- Olesi Dougy -- become a deputy. He just sowed 200 bracelets, and now he's become a deputy, got untouchable, and worked three years for the President's Administration. While there was an independent candidate named Andrew Lavrus, who did not. He has not left the political career and is now continuing to fight corruption, he has created the Central Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Office, he's fighting with the local prosecutor, he's fighting the upheavals in the pursuits that have moved there from Odessa and have already been exposed to bribery, he's continuing to defend the interests of the citizens. While the person representing this district was exposed to corruption by the Mayor. We have to cancel the majority office because it's evil, it's the door to the parliament of corruption. And please, there will be an inter-seasonal period now, ask your deputies when they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u111	Please give the following address to the national deputy John Sporish, to whom the word John Melniczuk refers. Please, Mr. Ivan, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u112	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, of course, our session is coming to a vacation, but, at the same time, it is very common that we have not voted with you in favour of the extension of the session. I think it's up to our voters to come to a conclusion. The one who didn't vote for the extension of our session, but we know very well that we are a warring country, we know very well that today we are protecting ourselves from Putin, from Russia, and we should always be, as they say, at the start of coming to this hall and adopting some laws or other. Even though we were unable to review the Health Protection Act yesterday because of the suspension of the session, even if we consider the Education Act in the second reading, I think that on September 1, children will come to school and teachers for something. We'd be thinking of making a difference. Unfortunately, this did not happen because you and I were unable to vote. I'd like to stop right now, well, obviously, our discipline was as bad as it was. And it's very common that we, together, cannot find such a common language in this difficult country time to unite around the Supreme Council. Because we have a country today where we should. where the members of the Supreme Council should take the basis of the questions that should be answered today. But I would like to pause a few words about yesterday's concession with Oleg Barna. Oleg Barna came out yesterday, and we've all seen it, all the Internet has gone through, and we've seen it beautifully, and we've probably changed them, we've given them the form, we've given them to these goats, I don't know who they've been serving there, but we're probably all going to find out on the Internet that we've been illegally dumping Oleg Barna's dirt with illegal eggs. And we've seen, we know Oleg Barna as a protector, as well as hundreds on Maidan, who went to the front that protects our country. But, you know, that's probably not the point. All the same is that all of these people are hired, even what they've been paid for. I was walking by the fence myself, where a bunch of drunk people gathered, standing around and talking about who didn't say, "Call me, let them come. How long can we stand? Let them pay." And these are straight words. And I think they're on the Internet. Together, Your Honor, it must be fair, we must. should, if we already have, if any action has already come, it should be fair, it should, indeed, be an action for the Ukrainian people. And that's fair. So I'd like everyone to come out of vacation, and come September 1st, and leave populism in the summer, leave all of this behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, National Deputy Korchinska, Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u114	Praise Jesus Christ! Yesterday was an extremely bad day, especially for the sick population of Ukraine. By the time the budget was voted on, 34 votes were not enough in this Parliament to pay off the money for the reconstruction of the Marian Palace, which has probably been going on for about 10 years now, 200 million to give to cancer patients in Ukraine. 200 million dollars to give another chance at life to over 100,000 of our citizens. The 34 votes that were lacking included 49 deputies who held back, that is, they deliberately assumed responsibility not to give them these drugs. I'm sorry that most of these deputies, 29 of them, are among the BPT factions. I'm sorry that nine people were held back from the People's Front and the Opposition Block. I'm sorry that only one non-fractional MP has held up "Rebirth." I ask that people who now lack drugs for their cancerous relatives find this vote on the website. Go to those 49 deputies and let them buy you medicine if they don't do everything they can to provide you with it. Secondly, I'd like to give you my statement yesterday to Secretary Avakov. I am officially the head of the Opikunska Council, Oksana Korczynska warned him that since the Opikunska Council is a volunteer body of OHMATDIT, I refuse to help the children of the investigating authorities of all of Ukraine because the minister failed to stop two Colonels in six months, Vakulenko, who runs the Ukrainian investigative office, and Colonel Kolesnik, who has already returned the suspected 60 million dollars of the stolen money for the construction of OHMATDITU, which the Opikunka Council has already returned to the state. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Justice and Deputy Attorney General Bedrikovsky are doing everything to ensure that these suspicions are not brought to justice, only in connection with the theft of the former procurator, and the National Police are not returning, the only PET/KT in Ukraine, worth 35 million, in the year 12 which was purchased, is hiding somewhere. And now the OHMATDIT, which is being built, is not being built. In July, all of Ukraine’s cancers will not be able to obtain a diagnostic on this unique equipment. And now every child in Ukraine is looking for thousands to 5,000 dollars of parents to do a single PET/CT analysis. They do it in different countries, including our Phoefania, which doesn't do it for free. We don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u115	Mrs. Oksana, thank you. A lot of speakers. Please, a national MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] As a matter of fact, consider this a matter of concern to the MPs. Please form. Please, now, the People's Deputy of Aresonkov, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u116	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues! Dear viewers, listeners! Today, Prime Minister of Ukraine Groissman, in his speech, thanks to the Supreme Council for adopting drafts relating to pension reform, stressed that in the fall the government expects us to support two bills that are linked to extremely important directions, the direction of our nation's development strategy, the issues that are certainly relevant to the category of national security issues, the bills on education and science reform and the bill on health reform. Of course, we support it. I believe that most of the deputies today support the importance of voting and considering these bills. But what I'd like to ask is, are most of the members of our society today ready to accept the basic ideas, the concepts that are at the heart of these laws? Simply put, will people accept what we will consider in the fall and what we are about to accept? When it comes to the education bill. Of course, today I would like to thank our committee of profile, the ministry, for the tremendous work that was done at the previous stage. In fact, there was a wide discussion in the regions, and teachers, teachers, and the educational community participated. So far they've been working, well, I'd consider the vast majority of the disputed positions that they were. And this is really a question that can help bring to a higher level the question of how our students will be trained, the conditions in which our teachers, the educational institutions and so on will work. As for the Health Protection Law, I would like to pay attention. Here, yesterday, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin showed that at the last minute, we were brought with us additions, amendments that were extremely large. So we need to take a deep look at what we're going to vote for. But what worries me most is that, unfortunately today, a very large number of our doctors do not fully understand what this reform will do. There are extremely weak places that are linked to the establishment of hospital districts and, unfortunately, to the absence of a health insurance system. So in this period until September of the month, I would think that we have to work extremely actively with the electorate, with the representatives of these very sectors in order to make extremely quality and right decisions in the fall. That's what I call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u118	Yuri Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 County, Kiev. Dear Ukrainian people! Today’s week was marked by the removal of parliamentary immunity or the Circus surrounding the removal of parliamentary immunity and majority voting for total antinational laws along with the regions that have been buttoned. It's about taking off the touch. You know, this circus has been up all the time this week, and we've seen all these votes in the Supreme Council when we can't even vote for arrest and for the arrest of criminals who are open-minded. And by the way, it's a subtraction of intactity. And it is obvious to all that, while there is a paragraph in the Constitution that the Supreme Council should vote for the removal of the inviolability, it is clear that no wealthy national MP will be put down. Even the same Dobkin, who was voted in for arrest and arrest yesterday, was not arrested immediately after the meeting, as was the case with Igor Mosiyczuk. He was allowed to leave peacefully, to leave the Supreme Council, to leave the meetings, and to travel in an unknown direction. Which proves that there was a contractor yesterday, I'm sorry for the non-parliamentary language. When the Opposition Block voted in favour of the Constitutional Court, it voted in favour of the failed NABU audience and voted in favour of the anti-national changes to the budget. In order to avoid such a circus, a paragraph on parliamentary immunity from the Constitution of Ukraine needs to be changed once and for all, Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Presidential Bill, which was still being tabled in January 15th, which, in particular, also touched the issue, depends on it, is no longer possible to vote in favour of it, because it contained three articles, not only the MP's in touch, but also the judiciary's, and those articles on judicial integrity have already been amended by further changes to the Constitution, and therefore the President's Bill cannot be approved. So, together with the Freedom MPs, along with the other MPs, who, against being untouchable as phenomena, started to collect signatures under a new bill in March, one in a row copying that part of the President's, where the issue of integrity stands. Unfortunately, by this week, the collection of signatures had been slow, and only 54 had been collected at the required 150. But thanks to you, the Ukrainian people, thanks to all the people who went to the Supreme Council, thanks to all the people who wrote on social networks, called their deputies, and caught them on the street last week, we were able to collect the necessary signatures. We have 158 signatures that we've just submitted to the Supreme Council's apparatus and we're going to demand that this bill be registered. To be in the next session, immediately in September, he was voted in the first reading. And I would like to point out separately that they refused to sign under this bill the heads of the factions of the BP, the People's Front, and the Radical Party of Oleg Lach. Commend your deputies, distinguished voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u119	Please, National Deputy Kobtsev. He renders the word “Derivyanka. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u120	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, political party "The Will" is "The Movement of the New Forces". This week was extremely significant for Ukraine because the Ukrainian Parliament did not pass an exam to the Ukrainian people this week. The Ukrainian Parliament did not pass a trust test this week for the Ukrainian people; it was actually delegitimate in the eyes of the Ukrainian people because it failed to cancel the parliamentary immunity to all the submissions made by the Attorney General regarding members of Parliament. With these slogans, everyone went to the polls and this was literally trampled by the Ukrainian Parliament, where more than 300 national MPs were elected after the Dignity Revolution from democratic political parties. I want to thank all of the Ukrainians, all of our activists from the New Forces Movement and all of our other democratic pro-European parties who were here this week in Parliament and convinced our national MPs to keep their promise. It's a shame that this morning, in an excuse, the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block was searching here and explaining that one of the deputies who must have been heroized for being very offensive to the people on the street and probably got some kind of reaction from the people. I also believe that the whole BPT faction may need to go to the President of Ukraine to heroize all those national MPs who did not support the lifting of the inviolability, the procedure of arrest and the detention of those issues that Mr. Lucenk has brought. This would probably be worth what the President of Ukraine did, rewarding the Day of the Constitution of the two regions that voted in favour of anti - Ukrainian laws on January 16th. So, honourable colleagues, a respected community, respected Ukrainians, what do we do next? Given that Parliament has shown its true face, given that it has practically lost its legitimacy in the eyes of the people, the most important thing this Parliament can do is to adopt a few important things. The first is the Anti-Corruption Court Act; the second is the Law on the Simplification of the Procedure for Involvement in Criminal Responsibility of National Deputies, and the third is the law that will change the electoral legislation that will make electoral legislation open through open party lists, through a proportional system of elections, with the prohibition of political advertising, with the complete cessation of political corruption, which is carried out through the huge costs that are being incurred during elections. That's why we refer to all democratic European political parties as the New Forces Movement, to all movements to unite and create coordination strains in response to what happened this week in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko is six minutes away because his colleague, Mrs. Yuzkova, gives him the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Traditionally, on Friday, Parliament, as always, is half - desert and people, citizens should conclude that they support them, that they do not find the opportunity to come to Parliament. Today, we are summarizing the results of the next session of Parliament of the Eighth Call, and I would like very briefly, meaningfully, but subtlely and clearly, to be able to tell the Ukrainians what is going on in the Ukrainian Parliament and in the Ukrainian Politics. In general, the movement that the state has chosen is to turn Ukraine into a raw colony, and the Ukrainians into a nation to serve, so-called "service nation", when the maximum level that we are offered is on autofills, watches, doormen, nurses and so on. This policy will lead to the loss of the Ukrainian nation’s ability to praise its scientists, other very important achievements. Why is such politics taking place? Because only the powerful are respected in the global world, the politics of today’s authorities rob us of power. Because our strength in economic development, our power in our own ability, is not to go, ask for, but to earn, is the key to making money, not to walk, not to pick up and not to ask. Because no one respects the weak in the world, once is given, twice is given, and three times no one gives anything. The Radical Party team is offering an alternative to the policy run by the authorities. When power policy is the weakness of Ukraine, the proposal, the alternative to the Radical Party is the power of Ukraine, it's the power of Ukraine, it's the employment of Ukrainians, it's the new jobs, it's the restoration of the economy. My economic deputy, Victor Halasyuk, informs you in detail every day, dear Ukrainians, of our policy of restoring industry, other sectors of our economy. Yesterday Parliament once again supported our law, which provides and preserves 300,000 jobs for metallurgy workers and I welcome our famous workers from the mining and metallurgical complex, who will celebrate their professional holiday on Sunday. Even before, Parliament has supported our moratorium on banning roundwood. This enables us to rebuild Ukraine and create, in fact, woodworking and furniture industries from scratch. We provide opportunities for tens of thousands of Ukrainians to gain new jobs, earn and feed their families. According to our initiative, 175 Ukrainian national deputies signed under amendments to the Constitution in order to make the Ukrainian farmer a landlord on his own land, in order to record in the Constitution that the basic agricultural system of Ukraine is agriculture, as opposed to the policy of power, politics, the conversion of peasants to Batraks, the policy of deriban lands, the policy of plundering Ukraine. I asked the Prime Minister today the question where is your policy of restoring livestock in the countryside, working in the countryside? We're promised only programs, they don't have politics, they don't have programs, and that's the policy that our team has. Take it and do it if you cannot do it yourself. Instead, what does the authorities offer? They boast that they had a pension reform yesterday. Ukrainians, you're being lied to, reform is something you can grease on bread, and the reforms they're carrying out are people's mugging. The increase in retirement age, the increase in the retirement age, which gives the right to receive pensions, they are called reforms. It's not reform, it's not a declared war against Ukrainian citizens, it's against Ukrainian workers. Because millions of people in Ukraine are denied the right to a pension because 35 years of insurance will take them to obtain a minimum pension. And if they're not 35 years old, they'll only be able to retire when they're 65 years old. And for this increase in retirement age, the coalition voted in favour of disenfranchisement of Ukrainians, the Self-Help factions, the Parenthood factions, the oligarchy groups. I'm asking, why are you helping the authorities rob people, why are you taking from the Ukrainians the right to receive a decent pension? When you tell me you're voting because from November this will allow you to raise pensions, cheats. There are an additional 12 billion dollars in the Pension Fund's budget today, because our team has doubled the minimum wage, so here's the opportunity to count and raise pensions today, and we're looking at higher retirement rates and higher pensions. Deception, a huge deception! And all those who voted in favour of pension reform: BPP, National Front, Fatherland, oligarchy groups, Self-help. You, dear colleagues, will be responsible for millions of Ukrainians losing their pension rights, working hard for the rest of their lives, because your 65 - year reform will require them to retire, with an average life expectancy of 63 years. Yesterday you voted almost a billion dollars for the prosecution. The D.A.'s already got five billion, you gave them another billion. I said, why didn't you give that billion to the farmers? Why didn't you give that billion to patients with cancer? Why didn't you put this billion on roads, kindergartens, schools, youth housing? You've given this billion -- BPP, the People's Front, Fatherland -- you've given this billion to the prosecution, why are you giving billions to those who need to be released and prosecuted? The Radical Party team, respected by the Ukrainians, is very much on guard over your interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u123	Igor Mosiyczuk, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u124	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Last week, along with the leader of our party, Oleg Lášk, a colleague of mine, Andri Lozov, visited my native Poltavščina. They were in the village of Alexandrovka under my native Lubna, farmed by farmer Kuzmenko. And I want to tell the whole country how the government is helping farmers. Kuzmenko’s farm received a little less than 300 dollars each, and 50,000 dollars received support from a farm that has up to one and a half thousand dairy cows. This destruction of agriculture is genocide over the Ukrainian village. And that's what he's doing by increasing agricultural holdings. Another example in Poltavščina, the Orgitsky region of the former village of Kuibisheva, today's Vishnev, there was a huge farm of 30,000 pigs, 10,000 active cows, its gilded combination, its meatcombinate, its oil fight destroyed, there were three thousand people working -- three thousand peasants, there are now only 50-70 people working on the Kerneli, and all of this genocide is destroyed, and that is the destruction of the Ukrainian village. Therefore, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška calls on the government immediately, not in words, but in matters of assistance to Ukrainian farming, and the Ukrainian Parliament is urged to consider immediately the changes proposed by our team to the Constitution, which will consolidate agriculture as an arrangement in the Ukrainian countryside on Ukrainian soil. And finally, the harvest is coming. There's going to be an increase in rail transport, and on the railway we have all the reform being done by corrupt Balchun, it's about raising the shipping tariffs, which increases the prices of goods in stores and so forth. I know enough material in the U.S. Attorney General's Office regarding the corruption of Wojciech Balchun. And I'm publicly addressing and I'm asking you to consider my request to Attorney General Yuri Lucenka to immediately arrest the corrupter Balchun, to bring matters to trial immediately, you have all these materials, nothing to hide under his dress, no fight against corruption should be selective. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Yuri Solovay gives the word of Chumaku to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u126	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank those indifferent people who, during this week, were under the Supreme Council, who demanded of their deputies, the entire Supreme Council to keep the pre-election promises they made to them, and only to their own. Yours. By their pressure, by their insistence, they forced the Council to do what it had to do: it had to remove the integrity of certain deputies, arrest them and arrest them, and it was done. Sadly, during the rally yesterday, there was a covert rally: someone attacked the national MP Barna, someone causing him bodily harm. I find it unacceptable in any form physical violence against any human being, be a simple Ukrainian person, be a national MP. And I also want to say, unfortunately, we ourselves, by our conduct, provoke a lot of people into aggressive behavior towards us. Please take a look at this hall. Look, there are 50 deputies sitting here the day the session of the Supreme Council ends, the day we have to close this session and sing along with all the hymns, to sum it up. This kind of behavior doesn't really appeal to citizens, and that's why they act this way -- aggressively. Moreover, yesterday I was accused of non - European behavior when I spoke with a megaphone. Yeah, I don't like that either, and I don't think it's pro-European, totally non-European. I would like to sit in a beautiful, clean, light, honest, non-corruption European Parliament, I would like to speak and speak in accordance with my beliefs before the citizens of Ukraine. But what is happening? I can't do that because in this Parliament, if I were to be told in 2014 that I would come back on stage again and again, to block the rostrum just because there is a constant violation of the Rules, there is a fake vote in this Parliament, there are the most important Ukrainian laws that establish the constitutional system in the state, as was the case with the Constitutional Court Act yesterday, I wouldn't believe it. And that's how you have to do it. I don't want to do it either, I just have to do it. I don't want to remind you. I want to remind all of you, honourable citizens, that those people who came here promised you before they came here to do the main thing: to change this indisputable political system that is today, to remove all the in touch with national MPs, to change electoral legislation, to enact laws on temporary commissions in the interests of the President's impeachment, to enact referendum laws, and that was not all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u127	Please, we're not giving it to anyone today. Please, Head Michaela now. Head Michaela, please. I haven't added one second to any of the deputies today, so honestly, to be equal to everyone. Please, Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u128	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th constituency, Ternopolish. Dear fellow Members, this sixth session of the Supreme Council is truly remembered by such ominous decisions that, of course, affect the great fate of society, virtually anything Ukrainian. All the Ukrainian people. This is particularly true of the Power Markets Act, which this Parliament has adopted, are bills for the budget, which are criminal, which really form a police state, not a state of social protection, which should help people who need and increase pensions, wages, financing of medicine and education today. We saw Parliament once again yesterday push forward a global reform that virtually no one is talking about, and it was on the first reading that the Pension Act, called reform, was passed. Today, this reform threatens to leave more than half of Ukrainian society without pensions. With two. In 2018, according to this reform, a person who is not 25 years old cannot receive a pension, and the insurance system has only started since 2000. According to the apiori, this person will not be able to obtain it, only at 65 years of age will he be able to retire. What's that called? It's a hidden rise in retirement age, it's a crime against the people. What political power went to the polls with such a slogan? No one, everyone, promised to cancel the increase in retirement and did the opposite. Thus, the All - Ukrainian Freedom Union does not support these steps. We didn't vote in favour of an increase in the retirement age, because you're canceling the pension index, because you're canceling today's employment rate of 1.35 to 1.1. It's almost 20 percent off the pension bill, what you did yesterday in this Parliament. That is why we believe that this reform must be repealed, that it has no right to be implemented, because it is genocide against its own people. So Freedom doesn't support such steps. I'm sorry that this Parliament has really opposed the pants and done more with this populism, instead of looking at global bills that could raise the Ukrainian economy, take it out of the shadows, block off the offshore -- what billions of people are getting out of our country every day and every year. And today, the country is walking with its hand out, and the queues are taking loans. By the way, yesterday's budget changes, you once again increased your government debt by 110 billion dollars. That's another 2,000, 600 dollars for every Ukrainian. And this debt today is an astronomical figure: more than two trillion is 95 percent of our GDP. This is the debt gap where you brought our state. Instead of creating jobs, supporting small and medium-sized businesses, you are taking on new loans today, and under that condition, you have to sell everything, including Ukrainian land, strategic enterprises. "Freedom" against such actions, we are against such unfortunate reforms. We urge you not to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Ostrikova, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u130	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. Today we summarize the work of the Supreme Council. And I'd like to do it in tax policy. In December 2016, Parliament voted in favour of amendments to the Tax Code, which greatly expanded the mandate of the Ministry of Finance: both to control the State Fiscal Service and to give the Ministry of Finance a standard-setting function, the right to issue methodological recommendations, clarifications, and consultations. At the same time, certain responsibilities were placed on the government and on the Ministry of Finance. Let us now see how these responsibilities have been fulfilled. Transfer databases from DFS to Minfin. The Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers were to ensure that the databases were independently audited by July 1. What do we have now? The DFS is being sold, the customs base is being sold on Petrovka. The DFS base, especially in the part of the registration of tax overheads and everything relating to the value added tax, is a constant manual intervention. In June, the accountants collapsed simply with their complaints about not being able to register the tax note because the server is constantly hanging. This all means that the wrong work of the IT systems goes, and the Ministry of Finance doesn't do anything. And the deadline set by the law for auditing databases is missed. Next position. Tax payer's electronic office. So far, the Ministry of Finance has not approved the technical task of software. How does the electronic office have to work since January 1st if the technical task is not even approved in July? Next position. Provision of general consultations. I'm a member of the M.I.A. at Minfin, and the Ministry of Finance never invited me. During this time, almost a year of general consultation, although there is a need for it, is not given to the Ministry of Finance. Financial Investigation Service. As far as the Minister of Finance is concerned, there is still no relevant bill in the Supreme Council. And most of all. Since July 1, we have started to stop registering tax receipts, and the Supreme Council has voted in favour. However, the criteria for stopping were to be written by the Ministry of Finance itself. How did they write out these criteria? Today, our accountants are complaining that all the producers are at risk because they have a raw material tax credit at their entrance, and on their way out, a tax credit from the finished product under a very different UTZED code. All of our manufacturers are now risky and questionable. But we have absolutely reliable information on Kiev that the schemers and those who place fictitious credit in the system break these amounts by up to 500,000 and register. And there's no risk. Therefore, I ask you to consider my request to the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out an objective review of the implementation by the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Code requirements. And I also want to let all taxpayers know one good news. Yesterday, Parliament voted in favour of a law that extended the time limit for the registration of tax receipts for cyberattack victims, as well as for cyber attacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Tetian. And the final speech is given to today’s nominee, Mr. Link, to whom is the word of his colleague Kuprienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u132	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Last week, we and the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, visited the Kropivnica mine, one of the largest uranium mines in Ukraine, which bureaucrats, corrupters and compadrators are artificially trying to bankrupt it, and at the same time trying to destroy 3,000 workers who haven't been working in this mine for eight months because the Eastern Mining Company can't get a license to use the nadrama. Djgeondra, Minecology, artificially, eight months, they're holding up this process, they're not letting the workers do it, that's 3,000 workers, 3,000 families. And this is the country's energy independence. We don't have so much uranium in Ukraine that we can spread. And because we don't get uranium, we don't enrich ore, we then buy it in Russia at our nuclear power plants. And then we went to the Ministry of Ecology, and it went off the rails. I want to report that Minecology has already transferred documents to Geonadr, as we insist. And Oleg Lazko's leader personally intervened in the situation. And we're hoping that next week we're going to kick this license out for miners and they're going to get their jobs, they're going to get their wages. [[Applause]] That's the only way we can gain energy independence. Only by creating jobs can we get Ukrainians to be rich. Not eliminate and destroy businesses that are strategically important to Ukraine. This way we will never gain either energy independence or economic independence. So I would like to point out that the Radical Party team in the Kirovograd district and in the city has raised the same number and will raise these questions. We are making sure that the miners of the city are paid and that Ukraine has uranium and that we can be independent in this matter. I would like to point out that more than 50 percent of the fuel we buy today is either in Russia or through Kazakhstan in Russia. It's unacceptable to pay the aggressor huge costs, that's hundreds of millions of dollars for fuel. We have to do everything we can to make sure that there's power here in Ukraine, and we have for that, and the East Mining Unit has a few mines, and there's a closed-circuit factory in Yellowwater that we understand why they want to be eliminated. Or competitors want to liquidate and buy for nothing, to pollinate. Either they just destroy it or they want to bribe it. So we're not going to let these mines be destroyed, we're not going to let the Ukrainians be unemployed and without pay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in just a few minutes, we will begin our session and we will have a speech by the distinguished Head of the Supreme Council. I ask you to return to the session room. And a minute of announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy Borislav Berezu of Ukraine has been elected head of this association. And according to article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Deputy Union of "National Health – the Foundation for the Welfare of the State". The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies Tetjan Bachteev and Valery Karpuntsov. Even during parliamentary reunions, we want fruitful work. And I now give the floor, my honourable colleagues, to speak under the Rules at the conclusion of the session of the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrew Paris. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-14-m0.u134	People's deputies are asked to enter the hall, take up jobs, take up jobs uncompromisingly. It ended, colleagues, the last plenary week of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Only 65 plenary sessions were held during the session. During this time, 125 laws were passed in general, of which 25 were ratified. 38 laws were passed in the first and the second readings. The session adopted 186 regulations and other acts. The main tasks of the sixth session were the adoption of important laws aimed at national construction, national security, agrarian policy, ecology, information, youth policy, transportation, road construction, and banking. Three codes and basic laws on health and pension reform were adopted. After all, all the statistics were given to you by the Apparatus so that you could see for yourself, and show in the districts when you were working with the electorate. But I would like to remind you that this is us in this session, on June 8, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a historic decision to form an external political course for our nation, which was given priority by the membership of Ukraine in NATO. [[Applause]] We are confidently on our way to NATO, and as part of the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Charter of Special Partnership between Ukraine and NATO, we had the opportunity to meet here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and to us in Parliament was visited by the NATO Gensek, also in these days by the United Nations Secretary-General. We have passed a series of laws that are important for the humanitarian sphere and very important laws for national security and defence, to increase the social status of Ukrainian fighters. In this session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine established mandatory weekly broadcasts and films in Ukrainian on television: 75 per cent of the national language – on national and regional channels, 60 per cent – on local and 75 per cent of the national language – on television news programmes. The Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine was passed. At this session, we banned the symbol of separatism in Ukraine, a gang member's george tape. It was at this session that Parliament ratified the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Canada. It was a personal privilege for me to sign with the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United States Congress, Paul Ryan, a memorandum of cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Congress of the United States. We are faced with many challenges, friends, not all of Ukraine’s challenges have been answered. We had many very emotional and difficult weeks, emotional and difficult days. But I am confident in this session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Parliament has grown stronger and all of us have grown stronger. And when I reminded you of the NATO Laws, about the quotas of Ukrainian, I want to bring us all back a few years ago, including when this hall reads information about Ukraine not signing the Association Agreement when the Kharkiv Agreements were adopted. I want to remind you that we're not just taking statistics, not just the number of laws and regulations, we're making historical decisions that determine the fate of our nation for a long time. And it takes this composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's taken in these walls and the deputies of the current composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- things that have strategic significance for the Ukrainian State. No reform in the country can take place without the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so, colleagues, I'm sure we should have a higher level of responsibility. We witnessed unprecedented attacks on the Ukrainian Parliament, unprecedented attacks. And unfortunately, sometimes by our conduct in the hall, we have reinforced these attacks rather than given them away because, to my deep conviction, Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and the Ukrainian Parliament are the main foundation of both state-building and democracy in the country. And that's why it's being attacked by key attacks because it's the most open and accessible, but it's the most vulnerable. [[Applause]] I would like, colleagues, to urge everyone, during our work, most importantly, to have a great responsibility, a historic responsibility. We have the chance, and each of us has given both the chance and the responsibility, and the responsibility to work in the most difficult times for our country, when the Russian aggressor continues to attack our country, to work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I strongly urge everyone to do everything possible to make the Supreme Council of Ukraine stronger and more responsible for the Ukrainian Parliament. I remind you, in all the toughest times, in all the toughest times of the modern Ukrainian state, and I have had the honour of being in a national-liberal struggle for Ukraine since 1987, and I have spent all that time, and in the most difficult times, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was the site where we stood for the Ukrainian state together with the Ukrainian society, together with the Ukrainian people. And when the Ukrainian state was declared in 1990, in 1991 and in 2004, and in 2014, we should be aware of the challenges and challenges we face. So I call on all of us, friends, to wisdom, to responsibility, to great inner strength and to the great belief that only in our united position will we be able to defend our nation in this difficult time for Ukraine, to defeat the aggressor and to build that nation that our predecessors fought for and that our predecessors dreamed of. We've done a lot, but we still have a lot to do. Give us God’s strength and unity. Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, according to our calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 14th, the plenary is scheduled for completion at the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin its work on Tuesday, September 5, 2017. I remind you that next week the Ukrainian national deputies are working with the electorate. Thank you all for your fruitful work. And I declare the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine!
