ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall and take your seats. And, colleagues, I'm talking to my colleagues again. Postage of posters in the Supreme Council Hall is expressly prohibited by the Rules. And all the time, we ask the national MPs to take off the posters. You showed your position, you showed your position. Please take off your poster carefully now. You're going to have to cancel the session. Please, people's deputies, let's go into the hall. Igor, do it, okay? Thank you, thank you. Are you ready for your registration, colleagues? So I'd like you to run the registration. [[10:05:03]] There are 354 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Anatoliyevich Matviyenkov. Hello. Also today, colleagues celebrate their festival as Ukrainian Marines. Dear soldiers, welcome to your professional holiday. You are the guards of our freedom, peace and security. We are proud of our Marines. Thank you for your loyalty to the State, for your sacrificial work. Let the bullets pass you by, and there'll be a firm shoulder for the brothers next door. Where you are, there's victory! Glory to Ukraine! Welcome to Marines. [[Applause]] Today, too, radio, television, and radio workers celebrate their festival. Dear friends, welcome to your professional holiday. Thank you for your tireless and impeccable work for Ukraine. Welcome, fellows! Guys, thanks. So, colleagues, I'm explaining the logic of today. You'll recall that yesterday we reached 480 copies of the Ukrainian Law on Business Facilitation and Investment Securities. 453, I'm being corrected. We finish this bill and then we move on to other issues of the agenda. Today is an incredibly progressive agenda, colleagues. I will, among other things, ask the national MPs again today to support the project on reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I very much hope that today we will be able to consider it. And I think it's principled and important for all of us the days before the next negotiation with the MEPs. And I'm asking for a full mobilization in the hall today and we're starting a day-to-day discussion. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking to the rostrum of the Committee of Director Paul Aleksandrovitch. And I stress that we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on business facilitation (5592-d). Mr. Paul, please come to the rostrum. And the amendment that we're on is 453. 453 readjustment, I give the word to announce Victoria's arraignment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u2	Comrades, good afternoon! My amendment refers to the selection of the audit committee in the stockholders. private stock companies. I suggested that a review committee should be created in private stockholder societies with more than 100 shareholders instead of deciding whether to set up an audit commission or an auditor. I think it's actually an archaic institute. And if we're talking about dispossessiveness and deregulation of corporate legislation, shareholders have to decide for themselves whether to set up an audit committee or to choose an auditor and work in their private stock companies as they please. So I'm asking you to rule out this situation and support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u3	Mr. Paul, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the editorial in which this item is presented in the second reading provides that the statute of the shareholders association may be provided for the selection of the audit committee of the quantity composition and so on. Thus, stock companies can actually provide for the need, either for this body or for its quantity composition. This was the direction of the committee when it suggested that the amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u5	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 453. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:10:22]] For-56 The decision is not taken. So 454ths. Don't insist. 462. Don't insist. Please, 467th. Please, Dobrenkov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman. I propose to support the rejected committee, but later, as a result of the talks, we agreed on the need to support the stated proposal, which is aimed at protecting the interests of the owner of the enterprise, the institution, the organization, by electing the head of the relevant financial institution for the person who will be selected without specifying any mandatory rules for the signs of the person. In doing so, the stated standard in this way, in the case of support for this bill, will save independent directors as members of the Board of the Bank, but the head requirements will be removed. Please, I ask you to support both the committee and the hall marked by the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u7	Please comment. Comment, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u8	As far as 467 is concerned. She was rejected by the committee, but now she's being asked to return to her, and I'll explain the point. The Bank’s Council Requirements Act stipulated in the first reading that the Bank’s Board must have three independent directors, and the Bill stipulates that the Independent Director must be the head of the Board, whether one shareholder or two or three, or something called even closely held company. A dialogue was held, including with the National Bank, which initiated this concept, and the National Bank, and the MPs arrived, let's say, agree to rule it out. Therefore, this amendment is proposed for consensus to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u9	So I'm putting to the vote the amendment announced by Dudenkov. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. It's a 467. [[10:13:22]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Next 475. Don't insist. 478th. Don't insist. 481. Don't insist. Colleagues, there's still a few rights left. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall in a few minutes, and we'll move on to the decision, please. 502nd. Don't insist. Lavrick. 503rd. Don't insist. And so, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. This is a huge bill, and I'll give the committee's representative more time to propose to us what the final draft should be as a result of the discussion. How many minutes do you have? Let me give you five minutes, if you finish faster, it'll be fine. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and please come into the hall. Please, Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention not to specific rights now, but to the substance of the law and to why it is so important. I understand that the technical aspects of equity societies, corporate governance or disclosure may not affect everyone in this room, because not everyone has a bearing on the stock market or corporate governance or disclosure procedures. I want to emphasize a few very important things that are in this law, and which, I'm sorry, but every MP, by voting for them, can be proud. I want to point out that there are thousands of legal persons in the country in the form of public stock companies. And in view of their form, they are obliged to meet requirements that are, in fact, excessive, because they are not public organizations. So it's suggested that without any democracy, they could have become private shareholders, they would still be reporting on a regular annual basis, but the procedures would be simplified. This law provides for the full acquisition of paper processing when reporting regular regulated information in relations with the National Controller. This revolution is certain. Even in European countries, some reports are still available in paper form, making business easier for all shareholders. This bill deals with issues so unfortunate that, I'm sure, many of you have been approached when discriminatory dividends were not paid to all shareholders. The bill stipulates that only by paying at the same time or by means of a mechanism that provides for all, dividends are paid. And there's a lot more to this law, and I'm sorry, it's interesting, and all the factions were involved in this law. Five working groups were held, and everyone’s thoughts were listened to professionally and expertly, regardless of the opposition, non - opposition, from opposition deputies, more than 50 percent of their rights were taken into account. That's why I, my colleagues, draw your attention to the very importance and usefulness of this bill. And as they say, there are no underwater stones, and that's why I'm calling for him to vote for it. Now, back to the technical side of this bill, about what some legal nuances need to be settled before the final vote. The bill has been commented on by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, with whom the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking agrees and suggests that they be included in such an editorial opinion. These are very simple changes, but they're technical, and please listen. First. In paragraph 2 of part three of article 56-3, line 780 in the table and in part one of article 78, line 959 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations replace the words “established by legislation” with the words “established by law”. The other one. Part of the first article 69-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders' Associations, line 901 should be supplemented by the words "in accordance with article 41 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Markets". Third. In part four of article 39 of the Law on Banking and Banking, the line of the thousand 12 tables replace the words “at least three persons” with the words “at least three persons”. Four. In the amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Entrepreneurs and Public Forms, the lines 1090 and 1091 of the table of the words “personal name and names of natural persons” should be replaced by the words “name, name, surname and surname of the father of natural persons respectively”. And after the word "personal registration," add the word "something." Fifth. In order to ensure consistency and predictability of government regulation, paragraph 1 of the bill proposes the words "from the day of its publication" to "from 1 January 2018". In paragraph 13 of the bill, replace the words "over the year and for two years" with the words "by 1 January 2019 and 1 January 2020 respectively."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u11	Please, one more minute, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u12	I would also like to add that, with a view to ensuring the balance and integrity of the bill, taking into account the results of the debate between the deputies and the factions, with a view to a comprehensive settlement of the relevant legal relations, and taking into account that yesterday, when we say so, the activity of the deputies was smaller, a couple of rights taken into account by the committee, which are important for the structure of the bill, although everyone voted in favour of them, but did not vote in favour of 266, it is proposed that the following rights should be taken into account in the final drafting of the law. Edits 36, 73, 85, 118, 157, 305 and 467 take into account how they were taken into account and how they were proposed to be counted. Edit 263 to take into account the editing proposed by the Committee in the second reading. And finally. It is proposed to the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts (to simplify business and attract investment by issuers of securities) at number 5592-dd to support second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u13	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u14	Support in the second reading and in general, taking into account what has just been read under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Please come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. I ask you now to pause the discussions and take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Paul Rizanenko while the MPs come in. We're taking up seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u16	It is proposed to support in the second reading and in general, taking into account what has just been read under the transcript and the technical and legal regulations of the General Legal Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u17	Fellows, I ask you to take your seats so we don't have to go back. Please come into the hall. In fact, all factions support the bill. All that matters is the mobilization in the hall. Please, 10 more seconds. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslav! And, colleagues, we're moving on. Let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take up jobs! And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on simplifying business and involving investment and securities (number 5592-d) according to the Committee's decision in the second reading and in general with the remedies that were issued by Rizanek Paul Alexanderovich from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which takes into account the proposals of scientific and scientific administration and with technical and legal rights. So in second reading and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please. Vote, colleagues, every voice. [[10:23:45]] For 213 It didn't work out without the practice of turning back. I see we haven't made it. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll be back. I'm asking for discipline in the hall. Please show us through the factions so that we can navigate. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 52, "Resistance Block" – 33, "self-help" – 12, "Radical Party" – 15, "Fatherhood" – zero, "will of the people" – 4, "Party "Resurrection" – 7. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come to the hall and ask for the heads of the factions. Are you guys ready? Please, everyone's in, they've taken up jobs. I ask you to mobilize and during the discussion and vote to be in the workplace. So, colleagues, I'm now proposing to go back to consideration. And I ask everyone to vote very carefully and to be in the workplace during the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the Bill 5592-d and ask everyone to vote, and I'm asking you to support it. Faction heads, please mobilize as much as possible. Please support the return to vote 5592. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Vote, fellows! [[10:26:27]] For 228 228, we're back. And now I'm voting again. Just don't come out of the hall, please. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for simplifying business and involving investment in securities) (No.5592-d) with proposals and remedies that came under a transcript from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Rizanenko Paul Aleksandrovitch in closing, with technical and legal rights. Please support in the second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Please vote, vote. Vote. [[10:27:27]] For 237 The law is passed. I welcome all those who have joined in drafting this law, colleagues. And let's move on to the next question of the order of the day, the very symbolic and important question for the Ukrainians. The next question is the draft Law amending the Labour Code on Holidays and Non-Working Days (No. 5496). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[10:28:12]] For-157. Decision taken, colleagues. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Ungurian Pavel Jakimovitch. I was approached by a few dozen deputies with this initiative, and I think it's progressive and correct. And please, Mr. Paul, report on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u18	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Mikola Knajicki, Olga Bogomołec, Oleg Berezuk, Sergei Sobolev, Alexander Sočka, Ruslan Lukjanczuk, Oksana Korchinska, Oleg Lavrik, Robert Horvat, Eugene Rybczynski, Vladimir Bandurov, Vasil Branzovich, Andri Shinkovic, Valeri Lunchenko, Dmitri Timchuk, Andriy Lozov, Igor Mosiyczuk, Olena Kondratuk, Oksana Jurinec, Alexander Braginec, Irina Podoljak, Hanna Gopko are the MPs who introduced this bill. The bill is very balanced and calm. We bring into line with a more accurate, accurate calendar, the Gregorian calendar, followed by the entire world that Ukraine lives on, the celebration of such a remarkable event in the life of every Christian as Christ’s Christmas. But realizing that there is a long tradition of celebrating on January 7, these festivals remain both January 7 and December 25 as Christ’s Christmas. As early as 1923, the All - Orthodox Council in Constantinople decided that all Orthodox Christians should celebrate Christ’s Christmas with all Christians of the world, that is, December 25. But at that time, the Soviet Union, an atheistic empire, did everything possible to prevent celebrations in Eastern Europe from being celebrated on December 25. And today 12 local Orthodox churches celebrate Christ’s Christmas on December 25, among them both Jerusalem and Antioch and Romania, and the Bulgarian and Cypriot Orthodox churches. But we understand that there's a tradition, and that's why we're proposing to bring it into line with the calendar and show respect for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u19	Please finish one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u20	We suggest that we bring into line with the exact, correct calendar that the whole world lives on. But by showing respect for Christians, the various religions of Christianity that live in Ukraine, and millions of people celebrate Christmas on December 25, millions of people celebrate Christmas on January 7. By the way, Moldova, which is with us in the process of European integration, and Belarus, they've already passed a similar bill three or four years ago, having two state holidays. Given the need to balance public holidays and weekends, the Social Policy Committee is currently dealing with the issue of the May 2 distinction as a holiday. And I don't think anyone understands why the 2nd of May should be the weekend. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u21	30 seconds. All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u22	And that's why we find the right balance when we balance 2 May and 25 December. I think we have in our desire to unite with the family of European nations, to show this tolerance, openness to all Christians celebrating Christ’s Christmas on January 7 and December 25. Christ Is Born! And it's going to be a holiday, starting on December 25, December 25, and for adults, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u23	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy of Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u24	Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on December 20, 2016, our committee reviewed the proposal made by the national deputies. The adoption of this bill, Christ's Christmas will be celebrated twice in Ukraine: this is on the Gregorian calendar, December 25, and July 7th. The committee noted that there are already countries in the world that have two weekends to celebrate Christ's Christmas in December and January. In particular, it's Belarus, Moldova, Lebanon and Albania. In general, the committee noted that such an initiative would promote unity and better understanding among Christian religious communities. The draft Labour Code, which is almost ready for adoption as a whole, excludes May 2 as a holiday day. In order to eliminate legislative contradictions and the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, I propose that the bill should be amended by a stenogram. The title of the bill is the draft Ukrainian law on amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code on holidays and non-working days. In the text of the bill, the figures and the words "December 25th and January 7th" change places to "January 7th and December 25th" because the order of holidays in the code is listed according to the calendar principle. I take it that the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on the basis of both the whole and also to entrust the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Secretariat of the Committee with the technical and legal drafting of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? During the drafting of the bill, there was a discussion, Mrs. Ludmila, listen to me, and many of the MPs asked us to make changes to the celebration now, that is to say that we should eliminate 2 May today by adopting this law. So by making the weekend 25 to say that the International Workers' Solidarity Day is not 1-2, but just 1 number as Labor Day. So we can swap one weekend for another weekend instead of getting rid of it. And that's the right thing to do. Let's have a discussion, colleagues. Now. So, colleagues, I want to emphasize again. I'm asking you now, this is the proposal I made, let's exchange thoughts. Now, I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. I repeat my offer by making one weekend, the other to eliminate. That'll be fair. Please, from the Petra Prašenka Block, Kurilo Vitali Semenovich will be speaking on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u26	Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! Smoking Vitaly, Luganskina. I generally support the bill. But I support it by taking into account the bill given by Parliament Speaker Andry Volodymyrovich Parubius. Because at this point in time of introduction, I don't touch the religious festival, on December 25, Christ's Christmas as a Catholic holiday, it's all normal. But to introduce another weekend in a country where the economy is falling or is growing slightly, I think it's wrong. We need to review in general all the festivals that are in Ukraine. And this proposal as a compromise proposal to move the weekend from May 2 to December 25 is the right offer. I believe that most deputies can support such a proposal, and in general the Ukrainian people will be able to support such a proposal. But in order for the economy to work in a balanced way, in order for us to grow in production, I think we need to give up the transfer of the weekend to Monday, when it was introduced in 1990 or in the early 2000s, when the holiday day falls on Sunday and we carry it on Monday. I think it's completely wrong, and there's no such tradition in most countries of the world. It's just some rich countries doing it. So let's support this bill, which was drafted by Andriy Volodymyrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u28	Please pass the word to your colleague Podoljak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u29	Irina Gorgeous, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u30	Irina Podoljak, 116th constituency, Self Help. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Parliament respects the right of all religious organizations to be independent in matters of religious and dogma. Therefore, we are not going to impose on the churches a date or a way of celebrating religious festivals. In terms of human rights and religious freedom, the Supreme Council is concerned about the possibility of maximizing the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms of its citizens and thus allowing the citizens of Ukraine to adhere freely to their religious beliefs. Then hundreds of thousands, millions of Roman Catholics, Lutherans, reformers will be able to have a weekend in line with their church traditions. The question of whether to move to a new calendar remains solely within the competence of religious organizations. Churches have to solve this question for themselves. In Soviet times, Christmas was an old - fashioned form of opposition to the Communist authorities, which changed to a new calendar. We cannot or will not impose upon the churches how and when to celebrate our festivals. The December 25 mark, setting it up on the weekend, is an obvious symbol of Europeanism. In fact, Christmas unites all Europe and the world, and it is a powerful reminder of our shared roots. So Self-Help will support this bill with a transcript from Mr. Paris and Mrs. Dennis. Similarly, we support the removal of the holiday celebrations on the next working day. Such bills are registered. And I understand that the hall is supporting them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u31	From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction supports the December 25 initiative to make the day off. It is the day of Christ’s Christmas according to the Catholic calendar. We treat our Catholic brothers with great respect. And we support this initiative. But we are firmly opposed to taking away the opportunity to celebrate our day of work. So one of my colleagues comes out and says, "I don't know why it's Labor Day." Because you have some darmoid festivals, and you have to celebrate and respect people who make the economy, who create the added value. What is May 1 and May 2? It's not just a labor festival, it's a family reunion. Because children go to their parents to help the potatoes in the village to plant, and you want to deprive them of the opportunity to unite their families. People have been forced to work abroad that their women's husbands don't see them for five years because they have 300 euros a month to earn, and now you want to take away workers' rights to honor them at the national level. The Radical Party Team against that. It's only the impotents who can take away the 8th of March from women. We are for honoring the memory of veterans who liberated our country from fascism, and this is a great abuse when our grandparents gave their lives, freeing the country from the brown plague, and today they say they should not respect their feat. Wrong, unfair, and unfair to historical memory, to the fallen millions of Ukrainians who liberated their homeland from the brown plague, and to the workers. We want to live decently — people who work must be respected and honored, not taken away from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u33	Thank you. It's from Fatherland, Eutuszek. Then from "The Will of the People" Rybczynski. And then there's Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u34	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the "Fatherland" faction supports this bill, supports along with the amendments made by the speaker of Paris. Enough to divide our polyreligious state into one or the other, we need to unify ourselves. And I want to thank the drafters for this wonderful initiative. But I would like to point out that today, on another occasion, our Ukrainian Parliament or those who make decisions about the order of the day have formed it so that we are not able to spend the day of infrastructure. I'll remind you, fellow citizens, 12 people die on the road every day, 12 people a day, and today we've had the opportunity to consider a number of bills that can be a little bit of an adjustment to the road safety situation. I want to say that in the afternoon there were draft laws and the minister was in the tone, and the Transport Committee in their sittings made clear their proposals, which draw or introduce, more faithfully, and concession, and our rivers open to unload roads. And what I'm saying is, according to the statistics, these 12 people, for example, in France there are only four people dying, for example, in Germany there are only three deaths. And once again, I don't know who did it, at night we changed the order of the day, we pushed the order of the day with different lobbying laws, and we're going to look at them now. So once again, I'm talking to the Speaker of Parliament, if the President doesn't need it, if the government doesn't need it, then you take control of this very, very bad situation where people die on the roads. "Paternity" supports this bill for the celebration of Christmas on December 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, from the will of the people of Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to say that I would not mix the righteous with the sinner, December 25 of May 2. But if there's such an initiative and there's room support, let's vote it out. But personally to Oleg Valeriovich, I wanted to say that there is no holiday like Catholic Christmas. 12 of the 15 Orthodox churches of the world are celebrating exactly December 25, so it is mostly Christmas for all Orthodox people, just as it is for Catholics. I would also like to point out that on January 7, only those churches that were under the influence of the Soviet Union are celebrating, so this is Russian, which now includes our patriarch, this is Serbian, this is Georgian and Armenian, right? All the others: Poland, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Jerusalem, Constantinople – all celebrate December 25th. We join the world around us in this way. I can't help but agree with you, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u37	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u38	I can't help but agree that the working people need weekends, and that May 2 is their strength, and they're leaving town. I would still think about it, and I would not mix the holy with the sinner today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u39	Please, just turn it on for two minutes. From the People's Front, Mikola Knieżicki, then we move on to the decision-making process. The storm is still, yes, the storm from the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I personally and my family are celebrating Christmas on January 7. But we are building a country that unites people. More than 30 percent of religious communities celebrate this holiday on December 25, in solidarity with many Christians of various denominations who celebrate Christ’s Christmas on December 25 in the world. I wouldn't mix different dates either. But our faction, the faction of the People's Front, is going to vote in favour of the proposal of Speaker Andry Paroby, because there are people who want to mix it up. He'll vote for any other proposal so that both January 7 and December 25 people can turn to God, think about eternity. So that we can be fair to every Ukrainian who lives in our Ukraine and in the West and in the East. I urge you all to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u41	Thank you. So, colleagues, please come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I, my colleagues, will make my own proposal separately. I'm asking everyone to be careful right now. Yeah, Shurma, please. As long as the MPs come in, Igor Shurma, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! The question is now being considered, not a question of faith. I want to support those who today say that faith is a personal matter. But I would like the author of the bill not to mislead people in Ukraine and look around and speak the truth before sounding something from the rostrum. He said that all the churches that had been influenced by the Soviet Union had moved to a celebration on January 7. I'll tell you about history, I'm a Greek Catholic, and the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church has never been influenced by power in the Soviet Union. Moreover, she has experienced so much abuse and so much branding that probably no church in the Soviet Union has ever been so. And this church celebrates Christ’s Christmas on January 7. And I would focus on one more, today's vote is not a political, fractional vote. Every believer and atheist has the right to press the button as he deems necessary and to express his position. This is the first one. And secondly, let's see if we can put two dates on today's scales: Christmas Christ and May 2. It seems to me that blasphemy is and is in that law to combine these two issues. And finally. Then let's talk about the weekends on Christmas, on Easter, what are we going to do then? Faith is one thing, and the weekends are completely different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u43	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Please take up jobs. Fellows, let me rephrase the logic, I've had some serious consultations before. I'm just afraid we won't get votes. So the proposition is this. Attention! As we work one day, we have to take another day’s work away. And I want to emphasize that on May 1st, only May 1st, is in all of our neighbors. No one has a weekend left. In Belarus, Moldova, Bulgaria, Romania, and only May 1st is the day off. It's suggested that we just leave it on May 1st. We, colleagues, society will say, you're just making new weekends, it's for the state, it's a big blow to the budget. Therefore, my proposal is that we vote on this bill, which is amended, so that in the fifth part of article 73 of the Labour Code, in paragraph 5 of the Labour Code, we will write, "Instead of May 1, 2 of the International Workers' Solidarity Day," "May 1st is Labor Day." And that's what we're going to do in Europe. Unification into European standards. [[B in m in s a l in]] ..amendments to the committee. Vote! It won't work. I'll put it the way it was. And I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine on the Holiday and Non-Working Days (No. 5496), which was issued by the chairman of the Committee from the rostrum, as well as the law which I read in paragraph 5 of the first part of article 73 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine, which reads as follows: "May 1st is Labor Day." Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote! Attention, every voice! Please be supportive. [[10:51:38]] For 201 There are no votes for the Radical Party. Now I'm making an offer without my amendment, without my amendment. I am asking to vote in favour of the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine on holidays and non-working days (5496), a colleague. Please, let's vote! Colleagues, every voice! With the papers that Dennis heard from the rostrum. Take your seats. Every voice! No May 2nd! No May 2nd, colleagues! Let's get out of here! Every voice, fellows! I'm asking you to mobilize and I'm asking you to support 5496 with Dennis' rights on the ground and in general. Colleagues, let's back it up! Every voice! Please vote, please support. Vote. Please back up! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, don't speak during the vote. [[10:52:40]] For 211 Colleagues, we have a difficult dilemma. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Attention! We have some MPs who don't want to vote without 2 May, and some of them won't vote with 2 May. I am. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm asking you, colleagues, I'm asking you to get together now. We need to find a compromise position. We need to find her now. Please, Pinzenik, one minute, but make a compromise offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the bill that we are considering foresees an increase in the number of non-working days in Ukraine. Please tell me, someone's trying to figure out how much this is going to be in the economy of Ukraine, how much GDP are we losing? [[Applause]] If we want to adopt the law, we have to replace one extra day off. Therefore, the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you to support, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u45	Yes, colleagues, I beg your attention! No, it's not. We will discuss it endlessly. Listen to me carefully about the situation. Some MPs don't vote when we don't delete 2 May. Part doesn't vote when we include 2 May. But I'm sure we have to adopt the law now. We're not having this discussion. Guys, I'll put it back on. No, we'll go into discussion, we'll lose the bill. I'm asking you to mobilize. I'm going to re-supply the 2nd of May for a rating vote, for a rating. I'm asking everyone to come in and take jobs. We need to make a positive decision. I'm asking for all the responsibilities, please come into the hall. So I'm betting again on the rating vote. Who supports us to adopt the draft Law 5496 with the amendment of Paris to leave May 1st on Labor Day, only May 1st on Labor Day. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. Voting, supporting. The rating vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[10:55:23]] For 203 I'll bet the other one is rating. Who wants to vote on the bill without 2 May? No May 2nd. Please vote, please support. Ratings, no May 2nd. Please vote, please support. Please support us all, in any way, it's important for us to accept, in any way, colleagues. [[10:55:54]] For 204 We exchange our thoughts. One minute from the factions. No, what a break, we're not getting together anymore. Colleagues. Colleagues. Please come in and prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Every voice matters. Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'll tell you what I think, I'm talking to my colleagues. We have to accept this bill in any way. Support him, support him without 2 May, if we can't get through. Support me, colleagues, please. There's voices, we just lose 25 there and there's 25. We have to take them somewhere. All right, Matthew, compromise offer. Please, Matthew, a compromise offer. Come into the hall, colleagues. Everyone, please come into the hall. Matthew, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I want us to see behind the curtain, we want to close it. We need to understand that on May 2nd we need to eliminate and increase the number of working days, but don't ruin Orthodoxy, we're an Orthodox state. You need to understand that the breakup of Orthodoxy is behind this. We have to ask the churches to switch to the Gregorian calendar. And when they do, we have to set 25 numbers. If we do this now, we're throwing a bone in Moscow that's going to scream that we're driving Orthodox, an Orthodox state into Catholicism, we're going to create tension in the Orthodox Church. We're in no hurry. Please don't look for simple solutions, it's very complicated matter. Therefore, there is no need to destroy the stability of any crafty thing. That's why I'm asking you to get out of here on May 2. May 25th, give me a little bit. December 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u47	All of it! B.P.P.'s here. Now, from the People's Front, one minute. Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I think that when we talk about Moscow, Moscow will always find a topic to say that Ukraine is not really. And what this part of the hall is so applauding today is only one part of the hall is talking about ripping this vote off today in Moscow's favor, because we're hearing about the "strengthenings of the Russian world" today, and we're seeing them, and they're showing up here, and nothing else is showing up here. Because it is a decision that unites Ukrainian society, Ukrainian society is different, it has Greek Catholics and Protestants and Catholics, and today we are making a united decision for Ukraine, a decision that leads Ukraine to a civilized normal world. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u49	From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. I got it, I got it. One minute. After one minute, we exchange thoughts. I'll give all the factions one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, how many more sacrifices does it take for the Ukrainians to finally stop looking at Moscow or Washington or Brussels? Look at your own state, at your own people, at your own problems. Instead of uniting society, you see what you will be told by that embassy or by that embassy. And they took care of what's so-called multi vectority, they destroyed the state. The power of the state in its unity, the power of the state in the faith, the power of the state in self-esteem. If you're underestimating your own self-esteem, if you're calling for friends from abroad to clean pots behind you, or order in the country, no one in Ukraine will order except the Ukrainians themselves. Enough to expect someone. We need to raise our own economy, create jobs, raise people’s wages, raise their living standards, and do not take away the right of workers to plant potatoes and unite families! That's why we're voting for December 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u51	The storm, the opposition block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u52	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear fellow MPs! Now, you're all appealing to the people of Ukraine. And you want to vote and answer some 226 votes out of the 12th time. It's not human. I want to tell you the previous speakers. Let's make the 25th the weekend. This is a pro-European course. And you call me a civilized state where the weekend determines the European course of the state? What are you fools doing? I tell you again, I'm a Greek Catholic. If we want to have a solution to this issue today, we must turn to churches from the Supreme Council. Let the churches determine what days should be the weekend. And then go to Parliament, get this thing legitimized. At the beginning of independence, the interfaith struggle almost led to the collapse of Ukraine. And you're throwing that stone in the middle of people again!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u53	Please, from Self-Help, Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! What do we decide today? Today we are not talking about religious and theological problems. Today, we do not decide when Jesus Christ was born. Today, we show respect for millions of Ukrainian citizens in the context of human rights. Today, we are talking about setting up, not Christmas for Jesus Christ, but the weekend for millions of Ukrainian citizens. I want to tell you that in all the countries of the world, and Ukraine here is not an exception, there are 10, 11, 12, 13 weekends and holidays. Look, we don't know the number of citizens who live in our country. We have people dying on the front every day. We're having problems with the budget. We finance subsidies, we don't know how and where that money goes. Billions, billions and billions!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u55	30 seconds, but you finish, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u56	And we are now, not really people, not our citizens with you, and we are irresponsible politicians, breaking up our society. It's a shame and a shame! Please, let's not manipulate, let's not throw in. Once again, we don't dictate to churches, when and how we celebrate them, we show respect for millions of Ukrainians and give them the opportunity to have a December 25th weekend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Colleagues, and the closing performance of the Igor Greens. And let's go to the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, to the Secretariat, and to the heads of the factions. We'll be out in a minute. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I just want to ask you to remember what started the trouble in Ukraine. It didn't just start with "Russian measure," it started with President Putin talking about protecting all Russian-speaking people for the first time in 2005. In 2006, he first spoke of the protection of Orthodoxy. In fact, those who today try to bring this subject up solely for the protection of Orthodoxy do not talk about Ukraine, they talk about the thought - provoking problems of others. This is the last country in Europe that doesn't have 25 days off. I am a Christian of the Eastern Orthodox ritual. I celebrate Christmas of seven numbers, but I'm a Catholic and I respect the world's Catholic tradition. And that's why I think, and my family will always be celebrating 7 Christmas numbers, but 25 should also be remembered. I'm calling again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u59	Finish up, please. Grinding for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u60	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u61	25 numbers we have to vote on the day off. But I fully agree that I should make a commitment to cut back on the number of weekends. In fact, you know, there's a bad expression in the people: "Drink Mondays." So let's try to cancel this tradition that when the weekend comes up on the weekend, we're moving on Monday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u62	So let's go to the vote. I'll give it to I held political consultations with the Radical Party, which is actually a compromise proposal by Oleg Valeriyovich. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u63	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the important question is: Without our voices, it does not go away. Politics is the art of compromise. As Winston Churchill said, "Only fools and dead people don't change their minds." The arguments in this room convinced us to vote in favour of the decision proposed by the Head of Peru. We vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u64	Thank you. Please be united, everyone, please come into the hall. Come into the hall, please. Get to work now! And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine in respect of holidays and non-working days (number 5496), which the chairman of the Committee of Denisov from the rostrum, as well as the readjustment that I have issued in paragraph 5 of the first part of article 73 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine, which reads as follows: "May 1st is Labor Day." Please accept as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice, every colleague, every voice has weight. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:07:29]] For 238. The law is passed. I want to thank all my colleagues and Oleg Valeriyovich for understanding the situation, and all the people's deputies. It's a big victory. And we welcome Julius Volodymyrna, and all the factions that voted, the Peter Dusty Block for understanding and position, the People's Front, the Self-Help, all the authors, it was a very important decision. But I'm asking you, colleagues, not to break up. I'm asking you to stay in the workplace, and we're about to get into the day-to-day session. Now it's going to be a day-to-day session, and I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please prepare. We now have a day-to-day block of questions to be included in the agenda of the day session. First of all, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase liability for individual road safety offences. This is the Knjazewicz Committee. I'm asking everyone to mobilize and back up. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? So it's just an inclusion, it's not a discussion, it's not a discussion. Who Supports Integrating the Daily Session (7286). Please vote, please support. [[11:09:17]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending Chapter X of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine concerning the take-up of individual provisions (7278). Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session so the committees can look at it, colleagues, it's just inclusion. [[11:09:51]] For a hundred and Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to simplify the pretrial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (No. 7279). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[11:10:23]] For 169 Colleagues! Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, important votes, and MPs just leave the hall during the discussion. I'd like to consult with you, colleagues. You can just look at the bill next, and then you can put it into the agenda of the day session, because I feel like the post-Christmas MPs just walked out of the hall. How will you be so wise or not? I'm going to put the next bill, and then I'm going to put it in. Is that okay? Then, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of the agenda. This is 7114: a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the creation and maintenance of the Credit Register of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:11:47]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to the committee report. Who will speak from the committee? The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich. Please, the Fisherman Sergey Viktorovich. And I'm asking the Ministry to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u65	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! Last week, the Supreme Council sent me out of office as head of the Financial and Banking Committee. In fact, two years ago, when the Radical Party faction resigned, I wrote a statement. Some politicians call it off, they change their minds, but I think we need to be consistent and responsible. I believe that today the authorities need a hand committee to not say that the National Bank does not have 7 months of leadership today in order not to carry out major reforms. By the way, today we're looking at a credit register bill and today there's no government, not even a minister of finance, and that's IMF money and 600 million in a row today. What about the committee’s work? We're proud, we've developed a strategy for the development of the financial and banking sector for 5-7 years, bills for the National Bank, for the Deposit Guarantee Fund, for the state banks. We demand a review of the state-owned banks strategy, which today is 60 percent of the market in the financial and banking sector. What about the credit register bill? Our committee said and we insist that this bill should be considered, because the state needs to have as little as possible in banks as possible, as I say, toxic credits and banks today knew who they're giving money to, giving it to the legal or physical person, whether it's money or not. We have four bills, one cabinet of ministers, by the way, I'd love to hear the government's point of view, and three alternatives. As the author of the alternative bill, I want to say that I agree not with the amount of 500, but 320,000 for the beginning of credit history. We have some corrections and, I'm sure our colleagues and Mr. Doubenko will talk about it. But I'd like to take another look, dear colleagues, at this point we're looking at a very important bill. Where is the power today? Where's the minister today? He's gone. The authorities don't need reform today, the authorities need a hand committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to discuss this bill. And now we give the first deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking to Michael Dovbenko. Mr. Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! With a view to fulfilling Ukraine’s international obligations and the conditions for providing macro-financial assistance by the European Commission, the draft law on the issue of the creation of a credit register was registered at the initiative of the National Bank as early as 2015. At a committee meeting more than two years ago, it was considered and aimed at processing. In September this year, the National Bank, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, re-registered a draft law aimed at resolving the issue. From the point of view of the members of the committee to whom market representatives have addressed, the proposed draft Law is conceptually faithful, but it does not clearly regulate the whole range of issues and contains many discretionary standards. In particular, all restrictions and the amount of information to be included in the register are proposed to be regulated solely by the legislation of Natzbank, not by law. Also, a well - described mechanism for turning citizens to self - information correction is insufficient, and the responsibility of the NBA to provide information is well described and can lead to various abuses. That's why we have registered Bill 7114-d as a co-reporter from the committee to note that the committee at its meeting on November 15 was thoroughly reviewed and discussed all three alternative bills. At that, a wide range of opinions were heard from representatives of different viewpoints. As a result of the discussion, the committee took a decision in one vote that held back from registering the draft law (registration 7114-d). But recommend that it be accepted as a basis in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look what's happening to us right now, we're discussing several alternative drafts, and we've made presentations by the authors of these bills, particularly the National Fisherman, then the People's Deputy Dovbenko, who has just presented the position of the committee, not just his own bill, but rather the person who runs the committee, in fact, presides over the committee during the meetings, has presented the position of the committee. And now we have to have a speech from the same government. Who from the government will be transferring the committee, if you'll excuse me, the bill? Because I have Mrs. Oksan Markarov. There's no Markar, is there? Dear colleagues, Mrs. Markarov, she's coming to the Supreme Council right now, we're expecting her, just then we'll give her our word. I now request that everyone who wishes to discuss this bill join in. We're discussing 7114, 7114-1, 7114-2,7114-d. I'm asking you, colleagues, to sign up, please. Dear colleagues, the first to speak out of "Peter Prashenko's Block" by the national MP Demczak. Please, Mr. Ruslane, we invite you to join us in presenting the faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we have discussed these four bills in detail and listened to the position of the National Bank. And what we want to say is that the information that's going to be included in the credit register is the status of the banking secret. So in view of this situation, we want to make some amendments to the transcript that allow this banking secret to be kept, because if this information is passed on to the private credit office, the protection of information can either deliberately or unintentionally, because negligence can be a leak. So in this case, we're willing to vote on this bill only with these amendments. In the second paragraph of subparagraph 3, paragraph 2, delete the words "and credit history bureaus that carry out their activities in accordance with the law of Ukraine on the organisation of the formation of credit history." In sub-paragraph 4, paragraph 2 in paragraph 13 delete the words "and the Bureau of Credit History." In paragraph 37, delete the second sentence. In 39 paragraphs, delete the word "and the Bureau of Credit History." Delete paragraph 1, paragraph 3, in conjunction with sub-paragraphs 2 and 3 as sub-paragraphs 1 and 2. And also delete sub-paragraphs 2 and 3 of paragraph 3 in sub-paragraph 2 and paragraph 4 to delete the words "news on a permanent basis information about repayment by borrowers contained in the Bureau of Credit History to which the information was previously transmitted by the bank." Subparagraph 3, paragraph 4, delete, delete paragraphs 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u70	Thank you for the sound of your position. And as I understand it, colleagues, I want everyone to hear it -- Mr. Demczak has now announced the position of the Peter Dustenka faction of those novels without which the faction will not join the vote. That's why we have to count them under the stenogram. Please, from Self-Help, National MP Lavrick wishes to report the faction's position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u71	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help. This is not, indeed, an expanded practice in the world when a regulator keeps a credit register. However, we have a situation in the country where there are now four separate Bureaus of Credit History, and in order for the bank to get information about a borrower or to give information to the Bureau of Credit History, we need to be registered in four separate organizations, each organization needs to pay the corresponding fees for such information. Another important moment. So today, we know what the fate of the private bank market is, having its own credit history office, and unfortunately, they don't give information to use other banking market participants. So the self-help faction will support Bill 7114-d, which is being worked on by the committee. Of course, it will need to be changed to the second reading, it will need to be determined the amount of information to be submitted to the relevant credit register, it will need to be reported on the frequency of such information, because the bill foresees monthly submission of such information. We insist that this be a constant daily report of banks to prevent counterfeiting by unscrupulous lenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now joined by Mrs. Markarov's government representative, but we will have a discussion, and then we will give her the floor to the first bill. From the Radical Party, I understand, Oleg Lazko, not the Wolf, but Oleg Lazko will represent the faction's position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u73	The Radical Party faction supports a bill that creates credit history registers. But unlike the government that starts. proposes to start running this register from scratch, so someone there is 200 to 300 bracelets of iron in debt and is already in this register of credit stories, and all the information about this person is already being distributed. We're against this, we're proposing that this register be distributed to borrowers, for example, out of 500,000 dollars. But right now I would like to raise the equally important problem of monetary lenders, which are tens of thousands in our country. People once, because of a criminal, I think, the activities of the National Bank, which allowed the granting of currency loans, acquired currency loans, bought their own housing, and today they are actually hostages of the unprofessional, incompetent anti-Ukrainian work of the National Bank. Because of the collapse of the currency to the dollar, the person has already overpaid the cost of the dwelling three times by five times and continues to be a hostage, continuing to bear the debt yoke. Parliament has registered a bill authoring members of the Radical Party to solve currency lenders ’ problems, primarily those whose families are thrown out and taken out of their homes. We insist that Parliament immediately review this bill and regulate it. We suggest that currency borrowers who took foreign exchange loans for housing, not for business, but for their own home, for which they have long overpaid, which is no longer the amount of money they took to buy this apartment. We suggest, as a minimum, half of the debt that remains to be written down, and another part of the debt to be restructured by 10-15 years. But in any case, there is a ban on evicting these families from their homes, who have become hostages to non-professional government policies and to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u74	Thank you for your position. Please, from Fatherland, Mrs. Alexander Cugel. Mrs. Alexander, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u75	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, to the government of observation, I'm just frankly surprised and our entire team that you're interested in creating additional registers that will spend money on. If there's any more money in the National Bank, put it on the army or charity for the children. And the competitive environment of the existing credit bureaus today is enough to ensure control over the unscrupulous, inadequacy borrowers. In our view, you should go to the bill that we tabled for a year and a half and a half, and you can't tell the system that the population of Ukraine pays twice the cost to the monopolies. This bill has been in the Supreme Council for the second year, and you're not interested. According to the bill, he is corrupt. He has corruptive factors that give rise to corruption. I'm not going to count, I'm going to count ten. He's unacceptable. If he had been seen by the Antimonopoly Committee, he would have made an unacceptable remark to the bill. So this is a violation of antitrust legislation. I'm not going to repeat all the remarks that were made by the speakers, but I'm going to put a higher board than some people are going to require the first reading. The threshold for gathering information is set. This is what we're proposing: not less than 1 million dollars so that they don't do customer tracking, the National Bank, but monitor the bank and create a strong Ukrainian currency. They set the threshold for providing information, as well as 1 million dollars, and set the deadline for removing credit information on outstanding loans for 30 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u76	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u77	Thank you. This is, yes, a medical observation, and the "Paternity" proposal: not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Now, please take the floor to present the bill, as we said, to the government Mrs. Markarovy. She's going to report from the scene because there's just a technical problem. Mrs. Markarov joined the discussion a little later, and we were no longer waiting. Well, you can get out of here, you can get out of the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I give you my word. Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman is present in the hall. Hello. [[Applause]] And now, Markarov's speech, and we move on to the vote. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. The emotional tension is over, we can go back to the hall so that we can get to a successful vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Mrs. Markarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u80	Thank you very much. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! It is a great request to support a bill that was drafted by the government, No. 7114, or a bill that has just been drafted by MPs with rights that have been sounded by the national MP Demchak. Why is it so important to create this credit register? Not just because it's part of our program with the International Monetary Fund and part of our program and the requirement of a tranche of the European Union. This is an extremely important tool that will, on the one hand, improve the potential oversight of the National Bank. On the other hand, the most important thing is to protect our depositors, our people. Because banks, by issuing loans, need to understand the total credit risk, and it is possible to understand it only if the information about how a borrower operates is known to the regulator. So this credit register, which we're proposing to create and function, is actually fairly clear and simple, corresponds to the best international practices, it has a very simple, so to speak, philosophy, banks share information with the regulator and have access to that information. We worked with the committee yesterday and found compromise solutions, including the minimum. Therefore, it is a great request either to support a government bill, or to support a bill that has been worked with the deputies, with those rights read by the national MP. The creation of this system will make our banking system more stable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u81	Do you want to finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u82	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. I heard your suggestion that we put forward the suggestions that Demczak made, yes, under the transcript. Yeah, I'll bet. So I'm going to set up with the correction that Demczak made under the transcript. And I will, yes, bet. It is now necessary to enter the hall simply and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking you to stop any discussion, stop your jobs. So, are you ready? I am voting on a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the creation and maintenance of the National Bank of Ukraine Credit Register No. 7114-d with a bill issued by the national deputy, Ruslan Demcak, on the basis of a transcript during the discussion of the bill. On the basis, colleagues, just on the basis. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote. Stop. Take your colleagues, not all of them have made it. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:32:06]] For 205 We didn't make it. All right, I'll just wait a minute. Please come into the hall, I'll put you back. Invite the deputies to the hall. Let me show you through the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 57, "Resistance Block" – 1, "self-help" – 16, Radical Party – 15, "Fatherhood" – 0, "will of the people" – 3, "Resurrection" – 3. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and invite the deputies into the hall. Ready to vote? Would you mind getting ready? Colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 7114-d. And I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, please support the return to review 7114-d. Please vote, please support. We're voting back. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:34:03]] For 227 We're back. Please, everyone, take your seats. And now I'm voting on Bill 7114-d, with an amendment that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Demczak, has written under the transcript. Colleagues, based on. Please vote and please support. Careful, every voice. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! [[11:34:44]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, we have the next draft of Laws 7275 and 7275-1. But before you go to it, there's a mobilization in the room, and I'm going to put the day-to-day session of the two laws in order, that's a minute. I'm asking you to get ready. And I'm making an offer. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare, and we will now be in the order of the day session. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and I would like to point out that this is a matter that we raised last Tuesday, this is a draft law amending the laws of Ukraine, "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine," reform of the Council (6256). I ask you, we have consulted, all factions have confirmed their support, these are our obligations to our MEPs. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize, please. I remind you, colleagues, it's an inclusion in the agenda of the day session so we can look at it today. I'll remind everyone, colleagues, it's about getting into the agenda of the day session so that we can look at it today (6256). I ask your support, colleagues, all factions, the reform of Parliament. And I'll remind you, that's our commitment. The singers are representatives of all factions: and Sergei Sobolev, and Ruslan Sidorovich, and Igor Green, Maxim Burbak, Oleg Lazko, all co-authors. And Ruslan Moskalenko. And I ask, colleagues, to now vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the decision-making process so that we can take a look at it today. Colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. I'd like everyone's support, colleagues. Please vote. We're backing it up. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, I'm asking you all very carefully. [[11:36:55]] For 193 I'll do it again. The factions, please. According to factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 80, "The People's Front" is 70. I'll put it once, Arthur, to the vote. Colleagues, not all of them were oriented. I'll bet again, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. I'm proposing the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of the draft Law 6256, this is the reform of the Council, this is the ratio of committees and ministries in the government, this is our commitment to the European Parliamentary. I'm asking everyone to vote. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. All the factions promised to support it. And I ask you to vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[11:38:17]] For 196 The factions. And the next question. "Block of Petra Dustenka" – 83. And the next. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Special Transport Service on the Status of the State Special Transportation Service is also proposed to include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. It's a matter of national security. And I ask your support, please vote (7242). Entry into the agenda of the day session to decide the issue of security. Please vote back. Vote. [[11:39:00]] For 210 The decision is not taken. And the last one we have today. Draft Act amending the review of the X "Final Position" of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the taking of action in certain situations. No, we've already voted. The last one that is now in the agenda of the day session is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure proper access to information necessary for the implementation of the NAM. This is a big request from the government, yes, 7276. The government only asks for the day’s session to be placed in order. Please vote, please support. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[11:40:10]] For-183 The decision is not taken. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. So I'm putting the next issue of the agenda here, this is the draft Act amending some of the legislative acts to ensure that the rights of participants in criminal conduct and other persons are respected by law enforcement authorities in the course of the pretrial investigation (7275 and 7275-1). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please vote and support the reduced procedure. [[11:41:32]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine. Like the good old days, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u83	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable Predestination! Distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! A few minutes of your attention, please, on a very important law that our government has worked with the MPs, the associations. What are we talking about? But please, colleagues, your attention. This is a very important issue for the development of our national economy. We make a lot of decisions with you that allow you to start restoring economic growth, creating new jobs, developing a national economy, but there are those who prevent it every day. I have deep respect and respect for those law enforcement officials who protect our territorial integrity, fight crime, ensure the safety of our citizens, ensure the security of our economy. But I despise those forces that widow law enforcement banners and use every opportunity to push on honest, transparent business, create those masks-shows, search, lock down, remove technology, primary documentation, block those who today produce a national product. [[Applause]] We made various requests, demands, we should point out that there was a meeting with business under the presidency of the President, I was present at it, the Attorney General, we did what we could to stop this mess. But today we need to adopt a law that will not allow any of them to abuse, humiliate entrepreneurs, block them forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u84	Please give the Prime Minister a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u85	Block their work and commit lawlessness. By this law, we will stop this shameful course, which is followed by some representatives of the power structures. We've met with all the members of all the business associations, they don't even believe we can pass such a law. So I want to urge everyone today, guys, let's all put a dot together today in the lawlessness that law enforcement does over honest and transparent business.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u88	It was powerful. The co-rapporteur is invited to write an alternative bill by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Semimenah Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u89	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union." Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present you with an alternative bill that has been drafted for several years by a working team of lawyers who defend the Ukrainian business every day. And I focus on the novels that distinguish it from the government bill. First, the bill aims to reduce the pressure on business and the systematic cases of removal of servers and techniques, which are the tools for manufacturing today all modern productions. The bill introduces the following major changes: first, it regulates the procedure for copying electronic information on the execution of the decree on temporary access to things and documents and approves the granting of a search permit. Evidence obtained in violation of the established order of copying and evidence obtained after the removal of the technology is declared inadmissible if it has been removed in violation of the established procedure. The procedure for temporary removal of hardware and electronic media during the search is changing. As a general rule, the fixation and removal of electronic information that is relevant for pre-trial investigation is done by copying the relevant information to a new medium without removing the original medium. The bill describes five circumstances under which electronic media may be removed during a search. In particular, if electronic media are a direct subject of a criminal offence, or if they have been obtained as a result of a criminal offence, or are a means of doing so. Our project foresees the possibility of retaining the removal of property by the prosecution only if he is arrested on the basis of a court order. To date, investigators and prosecutors continue to practice shameful practices in previous years, do not resort to arrests, without justification, to maintain the disposal of property. So today we have cases where a trial is initiated on purpose or solely for the purpose of pressure on a person or a business. And in our bill, we suggest that if no person had been reported as a suspect in criminal proceedings, they would have.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u90	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u91	to appeal to the investigator about the closure of criminal conduct. I urge you to support the session room with these bills, where the hall will already stop. I think it's a real step by.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u92	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, your view is suggested to consider the Government's draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure that the rights of the perpetrators of criminal conduct and other persons are respected by law enforcement authorities in the course of the pretrial investigation (No. 7275 and No. 7275-1). In view of the fact that on November 14th this project was included in the agenda of the seventh session, yesterday on my committee, the committee considered it and decided on a separate basis. I'd like to add the following things to the presentation of this project. First. Articles 60, 214 of the CPC grant the applicant the right to receive an extract from the GDR concerning his statement or a report of a criminal offence. One. The other one. Articles 3, 28, 303, 308, state that a person who is not a party to criminal conduct and who is subject to procedural action has the right to claim that he or she has committed criminal conduct in a reasonable manner and to charge him or her with a violation of such terms. Four. Articles 27, 107, 222 and 236 of the CPC, which provide a mandatory video fixation of the search, make the video an integral addition to the search protocol. In addition, the defense party has the right to conduct the search video on its own. Fifth. Articles 160, 164, 165, 168 of the CPC require the prosecution to justify the removal of the original documents or their copies and to make copies of the necessary information with the involvement of a specialist. And the last. If you'll excuse me, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u94	Please add one more minute to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u95	And the last. Article 284 of the CPC, in which we have supplemented the list of grounds for the closure of criminal conduct, particularly in the event of the presence of an unrepentant order by an investigator, the prosecutor for the closure of criminal conduct on the grounds provided for in paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 9 of the first article 284. So today we're cleaning up this, excuse me, "safety" sometimes when they're pulling out of the archives, from the skeleton cabinets, and they're starting again all the law enforcement services around to leak some kind of information, one or the other, by which the order of the investigator or the decision of the court is about to be closed. We don't give that opportunity through this bill. And last but not least, colleagues. At its meeting yesterday, the committee identified itself with Project 7275 and a majority of the votes, and almost all committees recommend that it be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u96	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u97	If you please, accept this bill with all the legal rights generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. But please be brief, there's not much time left until the break. Please record. It's from Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u99	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Especially for Mr. Petrenko's Justice Minister. I would like to thank, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, where there are also many entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the enthusiasm of pushing for bills that protect those who generate extra value and pay taxes to the budget, from which wages are paid, pensions are paid, scholarships are paid. But I would like to point out that, in order for the business environment to be free of raids, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other forces to stop illegally from coming to the offices of our entrepreneurs, it is enough to simply implement a valid Constitution and a valid criminal code, such as Article 206, which prohibits the intervention of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other forces in the legitimate activities of private entrepreneurs. Next. I would like to say that in order to develop national goods, to protect our producers, business subjects, small folk and small businesses, it is simply necessary to have political will and respect for those who pay taxes in the Ukrainian budget. Then entrepreneurs will be happy to vote for their taxes for today's power, for today's parliament, for today's President and for our country's government. That's why I call on the government, particularly the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Force of Law, not to intervene in business, not to help the raiders from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who are trying to take over political parties, as was the case with the Socialist Party of Ukraine. And that will guarantee that our country will stand and will be on the lines of legality, respect for the Constitution and order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u100	From Self-Help, Captain Olena Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, in fact, this bill is just a small drop that will really improve the situation, including the investment climate in this state. Most of the talk here is about the notion of searches that are critical enough to be chaotic, I would say, for the most part illegal, and so very often it's just the pressure on business, the earnings on business. But that's not enough, very often we get complaints that, actually, on the basis of cost arrests, simply by stopping businesses, removing documents, actually destroying businesses, fighting competitors or even raiding businesses. So first of all, I want to thank the committee, the profile committee. In fact, this bill is an extension of the 6220 bill, which we did not accept in view of the fact that there were some warnings when criminal cases could be closed, including the National Anticorruption Bureau. Now that question is off the table. There's a formula that's just been developed by experts, a committee, lawyers that's been working for the last six months. But I really want this bill to be just the beginning, the beginning of business protection. We have a bill on the Bureau of Financial Investigation in the Supreme Council. This will be another step to improve the investment climate. This bill is also in government, but it does not go to the Reform Council. So I propose, colleagues, now, of course, to support this bill, to support business, to give it a signal that we are favorable, and we respect those people who are creating GDP in this country. But move on: adopt the Financial Bureau of Investigation Act, adopt laws to ensure business from arrests, removal of documents and other negative consequences of illegal investigations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u102	From the Opposition Block, the Pope's Yuri Miroshnichenko is handing over. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u103	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. You know, there aren't many laws that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council can be proud of. These are the laws that unite the country, the laws that allow for the rule of law, the laws that motivate our law enforcement system to act in the interests of citizens. This law is, in its own way, simple enough. He does not allow abuse of the procedural rights enjoyed by law enforcement officials in the course of the investigation. It's not the law against law enforcement, it's the law that will help law enforcement restore confidence in law enforcement and enable our domestic business to be sure that it's a good job. And even the presence of suspicion will not be the basis for blocking business and all the more so the demand for money when it comes to some sort of procedural action. Dear colleagues, this law can unite and must unite all factions. Because you and I represent here, not ourselves, but our voters, who live in the west and east, south and north, who fill the budget that we now approve with you. I call on all colleagues to support this bill on the basis and in general, taking into account the technical legal rights that will be necessary when it is signed. This law, for which it will tell us, will express its gratitude to both the country's business and the entire Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u104	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev gives the floor to Odarchenko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u105	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. The "Fatherland" party will support this bill. We have literally a school of calls in our office from entrepreneurs who want to see the standards of this bill acceptable and positive. We have already considered such a bill, but unfortunately we have not been able to accept it in the second reading. The bill reformes the Institute of Search and Access to Things and Documents. Thus a new party appears in criminal conduct, a person whose rights are violated as a result of conduct. Very often there is a situation where the investigation results in suffering for people who have no relation to the criminal case. For example, a criminal hides in a body of a truck, and the investigation removes the car, even in situations where the owner does not know about it, and no one suspects the owner. Or search takes place in premises of enterprises that have no bearing on the substance of a criminal case. They now receive, in the end, the right to a lawyer and the right to defend their interests in court. It's very positive that the possibility of filing a complaint for prolonged investigation periods is expanding. Such a complaint can now be lodged not only with the prosecutor but also with the investigating judge. Also a very positive moment, which introduces the unconditional right to photographic and video-fixing of the tracking actions for the defence side. A lawyer, if he's already admitted to a certain investigation. What secret of investigation do we protect when we forbid him from taking this action? Dear friends, there is also a rule that exists in all European countries. If a lawyer is not allowed during the search, all the materials found cannot be used as evidence. We propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u106	Thank you. There hasn't been a performance since "Radical Party," yes, Halasyuk. And from the People's Front, the Logwine will be speaking. So, colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. In about five minutes, we'll be out in four minutes. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now, please, Galasjuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u107	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party faction will unanimously support this extremely important bill in order to protect Ukrainian entrepreneurs, industrialists, employers, producers from the illegal pressure of the force structures that is now taking place on an extremely large scale. We receive constant requests from business subjects. Such improper activity by the power structures, such a lack of regulation that allows them to do so, is ruining the very principles of the investment climate. To win a competitive fight for investment, for jobs, for prosperity, we need to give cheaper loans, tax incentives, additional markets to our entrepreneurs. But it doesn't matter when entrepreneurs realize that they're completely immune to the power structures, to the state. That you can come to them and do an illegal search, anything there to draw and actually destroy the business. Therefore, this law must be passed in order to prevent such situations from happening in the future, not in isolated cases, but forever. That's the first one. The other one. The Radical Party team is initiating a similar initiative with respect to photo and video fixation of notary deals, because today, raiding is taking place on an extraordinary scale because notaries are absolutely illegally copying the entire business, factories, paratroopers, anything. People build their businesses in Ukraine, come to work tomorrow, and see that this is no longer theirs, because notarius has copied because of errors in legislation that are possible. We're going to fix this, we're going to introduce an extremely strict responsibility of the notary for illegal actions, we're going to overcome the illegal pressure of the force structures, and we're going to overcome the raid that exists in the country today. I suggest you join this radical party initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u108	Thank you. Colleagues, and the closing statement now from the People's Front, the People's Deputy of Logwinsky, then we go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u109	Dear friends, I think we should all support this bill that protects business from the abuse of law enforcement. But so do international partners, the legal community, that we really, if lawyers today don't feel protected, no person in the country can feel protected. That's why I'm proposing to add the technical remedies that all factions have just claimed, which is what I'm asking the stenographer to do as follows. In the Criminal Procedure Code, add, in article 86, part two, to the following wording: "Inadmissible evidence or evidence which contains a reference to inadmissible evidence cannot be used in making procedural decisions and cannot be referred to in court decisions." To complement a new part of this content: "The permissibility of evidence may be charged to a court or to an investigating judge depending on the stage of criminal conduct." In part four of article 87, after the words "court," add the words "or investigative judge," the words "any court hearing" replace the words "at any stage of criminal conduct" with the words "courteous." In article 89, part one after the word "court," add the words "or investigating judge" in part two of the word "under trial" to delete the word "court," to add the words "or investigating judge." After the words "impossible," add the words "use of such evidence during criminal conduct and incompetence." In part three, replace "at trial" with "at any stage of criminal conduct." The name of paragraph 1 after the word "prosecutor" should be supplemented by the words "acceptable evidence." In article 303, add part of this content: "The permissibility of evidence may be brought before a court or investigating judge depending on the criminal conduct of the parties to criminal conduct, the victims, the representative of the legal person for whom the conduct is carried out, by means of a plea of impracticability."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u110	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u111	Dear friends, it's the same thing we said, it's no change, it's technically, legally correct. That's why I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u112	Come on, let's go, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs, let's move on to making decisions. I ask another minute of the Justice Minister who prepared the bill. And come into the hall, take your jobs. One minute, Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to give you a quick hint. While you and I are discussing this bill, there are about 15 searches in the country. Every hour, every day 250 searches take place with business representatives, Ukrainian citizens, every day. And almost 100,000 searches, we're already going out on that figure this year. Therefore, honorable national MPs must urgently adopt this law. Terminovo. He needs business and our citizens before yesterday. As for the technical legal proposals that have been made. I ask that we not now balance this law so that it becomes effective immediately after the President's signature. Vote in that paper that was supported by the committee, with technical and legal rights, in order to harmonize this law with those codes that were voted by Parliament a few weeks ago. So I would like to support the proposal of the committee and the drafters of the government bill to vote in general, with technical and legal rights, and we're launching a "mask show stop."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u114	Thank you. We heard your position. And, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. This is one of the most important bills we have today. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure that the rights of participants in criminal conduct and other persons are respected by law enforcement authorities in the course of the pretrial investigation (No. 7275) with technical and legal rights on the basis of and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:08:09]] For 312 The law is passed. That's what happens in the Ukrainian Parliament, colleagues. In an effective, efficient and progressive Ukrainian Parliament. Prime Minister, one minute. Thank the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u115	Dear friends, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I want to thank all of you. The time has passed for urging those who despise the Ukrainian business. We will require that every law enforcement body act exclusively by law. We will not let anyone commit lawlessness over business in Ukraine. Period. Thank you to the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko, Andrew Kozemyakin, the head of the committee, the members of the committee, all the factions that supported them, and the national deputies. Thank you very much. And it is convincing that the President who supports this law will sign it very quickly, and it will become the law. Thank you. And I wish us success.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich, for the wonderful initiative. Thank you, Mr. Petrenko. And I now give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that there is an exhibition in the towers of the Supreme Council, "Don't forget," which is dedicated to the fighters who are now in the hostages in the occupied territories as well as to the disappearing unconscious. I also want to thank the Ukrainian national deputies who were involved in the organization of this exhibition and the Beregina hostage fund. And I ask you to join, see, communicate, because there are now families of hostages in Parliament, and it's important to them that psychological support and communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u118	And there's a 30-minute recess. At 12:10, at 12:40, I ask everyone to come into the hall to continue our such not easy but necessary work for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u119	Colleagues, time taken for a break, is exhausted, and I ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. The next draft of the Law, which we have to consider on a daily basis, is the next draft of the Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing Activities (6016-d). And I'm going to make an offer to consider it in a simplified way. The report is made by the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna. I ask you to find Juliana Nina Petrovna so that she can be prepared for the report. And please come into the hall, now I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure, if there's no support, we're going to consider the full procedure. Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. After that, we'll have a draft law, and then there'll be two questions about the termination of the mandate of the national deputy Babak Helena. Ms. Helena, are you ready to consider the matter? Then there will be a motion for a decision to terminate Constantinople’s powers, and then we will move on to the important issue of regulating urban activities, and the voluntary unification of territorial communities. We have a very important, very progressive agenda. Let me remind you, we have two ratification laws that we haven't been able to consider on Wednesday, and today it's very important that we look at them. And so I ask, colleagues, to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, because otherwise we will not be able to go through all these bills. Now question 6016. We're just waiting for the MPs to come to the hall. Are you ready to support the offer? So please take the jobs, and I'm putting a motion to vote to review the draft Financial Audit and Audit Act (No. 6016-d) we're looking at a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[12:45:42]] For-79 It's too big a breakup. I'll put it again, but if we have this gap, then we're going to go to the full procedure. I'm once again proposing to review draft Act 6016-d with a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:46:19]] Z-85 Let's move on to full consideration, shall we? Is the committee head present, by the way? Please look for Eugene Nina Petrovna. Is the committee going to her now? Please, I'm asking you to join the National Deputies in the Hall to prepare for the vote. The next question we have is the formation of parliamentary powers. If I put them in, we'll just blow them right now. Nina Petrovna's already in the hall. Nina Petrovna, we're going to go over your bill. I'm going to re-supply, third time, with a reduced procedure. If there are no votes, we will move on to the full procedure. So, colleagues, I'm re-supposing a reduced procedure of 6016-d worked out. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:48:17]] Z-91 There is the will of the House to consider the full procedure, and I invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Nina Petrovna, to report on draft Law 6016-d. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I thank you for giving me the opportunity to report to you for 10 minutes. So I'm going to start by sending the bill back for a couple of reasons. I want to let you know that during this time we continued to work with representatives of professions and experts who represented the perspective of the entire Ukrainian audience. I thank all the participants in our endless discussions for having managed to find compromise solutions, perhaps not all of them, because some of the questions that clearly meet the requirements of the directive that we have to implement in Ukrainian legislation cannot be changed as dramatically as we would like. And here we have to agree that we have come across all the questions to apply them in the most mild way possible. During this period of time, except that we were able to find compromise on most of the issues, we held extended conferences in most of the regions of Ukraine, which were then, last time, addressed with separate letters to our own. my fellow members of our national deputies with suggestions and requirements for changes to the bill proposed at the time. We've considered all the objections, we've met with all the regions, and we've discussed the most and we've solved the questions, and it already sounds in the new text. sounds like standards as a professional environment required of us. Once again, we have met 90 percent of all requests. Of course, some standards cannot be completely removed because that is what the directive requires. I want to make one more point, the last time you talked about what the regulatory system that we've had for years and the regulation of the profession and its activities seem to have contributed to the development and empowerment of our country for the profession, actually not quite so. We have been able to reach all the participants in the professional market just as in other countries there is an attitude toward auditing and just as well as regular supervision of audit activities in other countries. You know, on an international level, the only idea that audiences can't properly regulate themselves is that there's not enough incentives for that, because that's a conflict of interest. And we've seen a lot of complaints about activity, including the self-regulatory organization of the Auditorium of Ukraine, which itself has accepted normative documents that have developed audit standards, which have self-imposed disciplinary obligations on members, and it seems to have advertised the quality and advantages of audit activity. Everything was concentrated in one hand, and we came to the point that the state of the audience's profession now is catastrophic. I can show you years of rapid growth in the number of audiences in Ukraine and how low we are now in the number of people who can provide financial audit services in Ukraine. The number that we reached in the peak of our growth points, in peak places, was 5,000 audiences. Now we have 2,000 400 audiences, and these are the ones that may not be performing, and they don't provide auditor services, but the certificate hasn't ended yet. As far as money is concerned, which is now being occupied by Ukrainian audiences in the provision of services, it has declined considerably and is low compared to even the services provided by the Grand Four audience. You know that in view of the fact that there is also a great lack of confidence in the audit opinion of Ukrainian auditors in our country and in the government, decisions are taken by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding additional criteria for auditors who can audit the financial reporting of public enterprises. You know, it's a very narrow circle: the first group -- four audit companies, the second group -- another 40. These are catastrophic numbers. We're talking about the fact that our audiences are all in the same state of distrust of their work. Indeed, it is. Many of you talk about the fact that there are audit firms that just print their reports without putting any responsibility and research into the very financial reporting that they support. You and I have adopted the Act of Amendments to the Law on Accounting in Ukraine. You know that we've approached this law with completely different approaches to transparency and accountability for every number that's reflected in the financial report. And this transparency will be revealed, including through the publication on websites of large and medium-sized enterprises, companies of social interest in reporting together with an audit opinion. Indeed, the Auditorship Act, which I am introducing to you right now, contains more stringent requirements both for entering the profession and for performing the audit services. But that is what the directive and the experience of countries that place high grades and trust in their country’s audiences is all about. Thus, some articles remained unchanged, but we reduced them only, softening them only to what could be done. I want to tell you right now that the bill supported by the audience is to assure you that we have a resolution of the conferences entitled "The Future of the Audience: The International Experience and the Ways of Ukraine" held in Kiev, Odessa, Lviv, signed by 700 audiences who directly participated. In Kiev, I also took part in the conference, and we discussed all the questions on the crumbs: how can you become an auditor again, it can be said, you can pass exams, you can go through a higher professional qualification, what is the responsibility, and what is ultimately a public oversight body. What were some of the most disturbing questions? That the public oversight body would be financed, not by the state budget, but by the profession itself. We've taken these positions in quite detail because it can be financed from the state budget if it becomes a unit of one of the central governments. We say that we have the Ministry of Finance, which will only play a regulatory role over the public oversight body of audit activities, just so that: (a) all normative documents are approved by the Ministry of Finance and are duly justified so that this is not the vachanalia that has taken place in all previous years of auditing in Ukraine. We're talking, and what kind of public oversight agency is this? This is the Board of Auditors and Inspectorate for the Quality of Social Subjects, the auditors who carry out audits of social interests. And we're saying that it's the profession in the public oversight body that's going to be represented enough to have a professional perspective and protect its interests. The Board of Supervisory will consist of 7 persons: 4 are regulators and 3 are non-practice audiences. At the same time, these nonpractice individuals are being nominated by a nomination committee of 8 people, representing 3 representatives of the profession and a representative of the Ukrainian Auditorium, or 4 persons who will continue to defend the interests of the profession. I'd like to now, because time is running out, to let you know that it's all been worked out right now between the first one and the one that's being worked out right now. First, the funding mechanisms of the Public Oversight Authority of the Auditorium have been clarified, and this is the shift to a mixed model of funding at the expense.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u121	Thank you. Just so we can get a look at it before.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u122	And I know there will be questions for you right now. Another question, then all the discussions, it's still an hour. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Yuzanina has made such information about the bill quite divisive. And now I'm asking you to sign up for the author's question. Please. To the representative of the committee. The committee heads. Ivchenka, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u123	Please pass the word to your colleague Eutuska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u124	Please, Evtushka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u125	Thank you. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Head of the Committee, I have a call from the voters in the Ukraine, from the Rhinepolis and they ask, is it true that the provisions of this bill contain standards that undermine competition among the audience? If there are such things, please explain them in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u126	I clearly believe that this draft law offers more opportunities for our audiences. I don't see any claims and they didn't come from the audience that this law has an impact on the competition of the audience. To the little audience, we left their niche the way it is. Because we did not take the lombardes to the subjects of social interest, other non - financial institutions are small, which by status are allocated to small enterprises. And so they took absolutely into account the opinion of all the small audiences that the market for their orders should not be reduced by the adoption of this law. If the equinox has any further questions, please let them call the Auditorium for a new head and clarify the matter. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, the next question from Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Dear Nina Petrovna! First of all, I would like to say and thank you for the work that was done on the committee. Because, in fact, you've done a lot of things to the new law of change. And I would like to say that, indeed, the bill is designed to determine the legal principles of auditing, financial reporting and the conduct of this audit activity. And this bill goes to priority areas for adapting Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation. Our committee has been working on this bill, and it supports, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u129	Please, Mrs. Jujanina. Ms. Yuzanina agrees with the position expressed by her head, the head of the essentially Committee on European Integration. And here's a question from Mr. Sporish. Mr. Ivan, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u130	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I have this question, of course, this bill is necessary, but I have a question in the following. So you said there are 2,400 audiences at the moment. How long does it still take to have them, to completely, as they say, close this question? And the second. So this social oversight body, is that going to be the cost of the government budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u131	Thank you for asking. The required number of audiences is not calculated. It's not being held in any country because we can't limit the profession, it's the freedom of people who can get an audience certificate. And today's bill in no way limits the possibility of acquiring this profession. When you ask questions, will the government budget be spent? No, they won't. And that's what divided society's thinking. Some say that this body should be kept from the government budget, which the Ministry of Finance and the community themselves could not agree on, because this means a completely state-owned body. And yet we want to preserve the independence of the body, and that's what's guaranteed, because our public oversight body is a subject of public law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Please return to your workplace. From Self-Help, several MPs insisted on asking questions. Unfortunately, our colleagues have three minutes to ask. But now we're going to have factions from the factions, from the deputies, and I think you can formulate your warnings or questions there, and the committee head will sum it up at the end of the discussion. I'm asking you to sign up for the committees right now. Sorry about the factions, from the factions, to sign up for the discussion now. Please, I understand that, Mrs. Ostrikova. Let's get you to the show. I'll give you my word, don't worry. They're enemies' claims, but they're not prejudices. We'll give you our word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u133	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished audiences who, I'm sure, are now looking into this important issue for the audience community of the bill, we think this bill is necessary, this issue has long been settled. Yes, he may be hard at some point, but he's fully in line with the relevant European directive, and he's really making demands for audit companies that are going to carry out public interest audits by more stringent individuals and by the number of employees and by the quality of the audit services. But let's face it, those who are auditing Naftogazu today, the big taxpayers, the banks, the insurance companies, they really have to be powerful audit firms, the different ones that will bear full responsibility, including the material ones, for the conclusions they come to. However, after consulting with the representatives of the auditors in the region, the Self-Help faction has a number of warnings about voting on the bill in its first reading. They are all designed exclusively to improve and to rule out different interpretations when implementing the law. In particular, we believe that it is necessary to exclude the rule that the public oversight body has the right to review and review decisions taken by the Auditorium within the limits of the exercise of delegated powers. Moreover, a comprehensive list of violations for which individual members of the Auditor’s Board may be suspended should be determined in order to eliminate the total impact of the social oversight body on the Board of Auditors. In doing so, members of the Board of Auditors cannot be delegated to the Board of the Auditorium of Ukraine, which has resulted in a systematic failure to implement the decisions of the public oversight body. There should be a reason when a supervisory authority dissolves another organ. Just as we have in the Constitution, there is a comprehensive list of the reasons why the President has the right to dissolve Parliament. Moreover, the responsibility of those who enter the Board of Auditors should be individual rather than collective. This is in line with the standards of design that are now in Ukraine. Moreover, we believe that it is necessary to apply the same requirements to domestic auditors and to auditors admitted to audit in EU countries and intend to work in Ukraine. We also believe that there should be a comprehensive list of significant violations at the level of law to exclude an auditor or subject from the register. And we have questions about fines. These are fines for infringements that do not have clear criteria and infringements that are allowed, not by the audience, but by the customers of the mandatory audit. For example, a fine of up to 100 percent of the amount of the contract for a breach, for example, for nonimplementation of the internal system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u134	Let me finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u135	internal control, procedures, registration and fact-finding, which are subject to fixation and disclosure. We believe that responsibility should have been graduated depending on the degree of guilt and the severity of the breach. And these issues need to be settled in the resolution before the first reading, then we will support this bill. And we have an opinion, including harkov audiences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u136	Thank you. I hope the committee head's got it all fixed up. But why this should not be further worked out, please discuss it. It's Peter Dusty's Block, spores. Are you going out of your seat? Please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u137	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I ask you to pass the word Alexia Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u138	Please, Mr. Alexia. It's gonna come out, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko will support this bill. In fact, now this bill, it's standardizing the European model, the activity of the audience, and we're convinced that it's going to be one of the factors behind the discovery of the shadow economy. Yes, he introduces more stringent responsibility, sets administrative responsibility, primarily for the independent performance of professional services. He introduces compulsory liability insurance for the audience, which is called upon to protect the interests of the party who has benefited from the services. But these things are primarily called on to increase the level of expertise of audiences and thereby increase the level of confidence from society to audience activity in Ukraine. In this way, the audience will become more competitive, be able to compete with international organizations. And in fact, we and the committee have made a great deal of effort to finalize this document so that it actually protects our citizens, and so that audiences can perform their functions properly. So, given all of this, I would ask all the factions of Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u140	Thank you for the faction's voice, Sir Alexia. And from the Radical Party, it's Mr. Halasyuk. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u141	Dear Irina Volodymyrna! Dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party faction has supported an extremely important Accounting Act, which we have recently adopted with you, because it is really very useful for the economy and is the right one. But we don't support this audit bill, because we think it's a completely wrong model, which, on the one hand, essentially transmits Ukrainian auditing to external administration, on the other hand, concentrates audit functions under the Ministry of Finance, which essentially violates its independence. In addition, it sets out criteria and requirements for audit companies that will monopolize the market. Dear colleagues, remember the sad decision of the 390 government, which resulted in the monopolized auditory activity in an artificial way in state enterprises, which led to a major increase in these services, on the one hand. On the other hand, many state - owned enterprises have not even found the funds to conduct audits, as provided by law, but the quality of audit services has not improved. Who supports this bill that is currently under consideration? Of course, the Ministry of Finance, because they want to manage the audit, they want to destroy the model, the self-regulatory model of auditing in Ukraine, of course, some interested people abroad. Because by this bill, Ukraine is actually refusing to regulate audit activities in part of the standards, and it does not even leave behind the possibility for any public authority to correct, supplement, comment on standards of auditing. In addition, officials claim that only large audit companies provide a higher quality and, in fact, a targeted law to squeeze small and medium-sized companies out of the market for socially significant checks. But as for the quality of large-scale audience services, it's still a big question. Please take a look at the scandal that unfolded in the world over what is called the Paradise Offshore. Please take a look at the private bank audit experience. Did small audiences work there in general? So you don't have to mix the quality control issues, the issue of setting standards that should be in the country's best interests and taking into account the realities that we have and the free functioning of the market. Because what they're trying to do is set up plans that won't allow socially significant small and medium-sized enterprises to actually erase from the face of a regional audit in Ukraine, they're going to do Big Four and the biggest companies. Therefore, the Radical Party team does not support such a model of the Auditorship Act and invites you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in June we have considered two bills with you. One author was Halasyuk and I, one of whom was from a group with Mrs. Then the Supreme Council acted wisely: two of them were sent for further work, and the protocol stated that both bills were to be found at the same time a single edition that would primarily satisfy the national interests of the audience and the Ukrainian economy. Sadly, though, our proposals were not taken into account. Personally, as an author, I was never invited to the task force. And the committee, with a monopoly on the issue, passed its own bill, which was passed on for the first time. What didn't happen. Not included in the bill in our regulations. First of all, it's very bad to recognize an object that is an audit, what is an audit activity, what's a different concept of an audit. We believe that the bill restricts audit activity only through the provision of audit services and thus identifies the concept of auditing and auditing. However, auditory activity is a broader concept. My self-help colleague here said it took a long time to change the law. Mrs. Tetjano, God forbid that the 1993 Bills work the way the Audit Law works and create independent markets. The bill is now a self - control organization that is supported by all countries of the world, that has to create self - control professional organizations, and they regulate the quality of service and certification of their subjects. Unfortunately, we're only talking about democracy. Your statement that the Ministry of Finance wanted to control, but he had to control our bill, but he never accepted it. Ministry of Finance actively participates in the work of the Auditorium, in the creation of international standards for more than 20 years of independence of Ukraine. Second of all, about the Social Services Authority. In the bill, the Social Supervisory Authority is in fact a structural unit of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Honourable MPs, the Ministry approves the structure, approves their salaries, all of which are paid by Ukrainian audiences, and all decisions taken by them are taken by the Ministry of Finance. Then, if you'll excuse me, let them be responsible. Because all the bank audits were made by very well-known audit companies whose owners were sitting here in the hall. The Naftogazu auditors were audit firms, whose owners were sitting here as deputies in the hall. And now you're saying that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u144	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u145	You're lobbying foreign companies that don't have any responsibility. Try to open up a Ukrainian company in any country, you'll get any restrictions. We need to maintain our own market, where there are small cities. And there's no people today to have 10 audiences, you're eliminating the Ukrainian auditing market today. We don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u146	As I understand it, from the faction, all those desiring have joined in the discussion. And now I'm announcing a recording of a speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please sign up. Please, Deputy Dmitrenko. Gives the floor to Mrs. Yuzanini. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to explain what has happened to the presence of the total number of employees. We took into account the proposals of an alternative, and, more faithfully, a bill that was registered by a long-standing colleague who spoke from the rostrum. This is Bill 2534. And we have set out that it is the total number of employees in the company, who will carry out mandatory audits, including the mandatory audit of enterprises of social interest, that should not be 15 but 10 persons, as stated in this bill. You just don't have to speculate when you explain the situations that we've been working on. I would like to stress once again that the Committee has also clarified the list of non-audit services – a clear restriction on the explicit provision of mandatory audit and non-audit services. This is also the observation that has just been made by the national MPs. I want to say that even if the requirements of European legislation in the audience's performance are implemented, we have done everything we can to clarify the mechanism for counting the theoretical knowledge of the person who is being tested, the certification requirements are based on the applicant's experience and so on. Dear colleagues, are you not told by the number of auditors who have supported the amended bill that has become familiar with all the relevant points? I am very sorry that some colleagues did not come to any working group and did not look into the issues that were discussed with the professional community. A colleague has just read a number of articles or requirements of the new Tax Code that seem to reduce the market for our small firms. Well, that's not true! Everyone knows that, and the MPs persist in telling lies to colleagues in the hall who, from a professional point of view, may not fully know all the details of the bill. I ask you to support me in the first reading, because those observations remain. There are two questions that have just been raised by colleagues from the Self-Help faction. Indeed, how can you write clear criteria or what infringements, in which case fines will be applied. We tried to do so, but we did not find the opportunity to warn ourselves against all cases of wrongdoing. So, really, if you have this text written out, we can count on the second reading. You don't have to insist right now on just these two revisions to the first reading. We counted a thousand amendments, a thousand in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u148	Please, the Romanov People's Deputy passes the word to Ostrich for the performance. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, we are ready to support this bill in the first reading, but we ask you to take into account the positions that I have already mentioned and now I will tell you again. We strongly believe that the board of the Auditorium should be independent of the public authority of the self - control body. In order to do so, it is necessary to introduce the personal responsibility of the members of the Board of Auditors and to identify a comprehensive list of violations for which a member of the Board of Auditors may be removed. Secondly, we believe that the same requirements should be applied to national audiences and to auditors admitted to audit in EU countries and intend to work in Ukraine. Because today, article 19, paragraph 5, is discriminatory toward Ukrainian audiences. It sets out a list of directions for which it is necessary to pass the examinations for the qualification of the audience, including the auditors admitted to the audit in the EU countries and who intend to work in Ukraine, requiring a smaller list of theoretical knowledge for which an examination is required. Moreover, once again, article 42, paragraph 9, provides for a fine of 100 percent of the amount of the contract for such a violation to be imposed today for nonimplementation of the internal control system. In doing so, neither this law nor the other document provides for clear criteria for determining whether the internal control systems are compatible, i.e. the conclusions on whether or not they are appropriate is the subjective opinion of a specific inspection body. It can't be that different from the severity of the infringement is the same fine. Moreover, first of all, this violation in the form of a specific distribution should be provided for in Ukrainian legislation. Each norm must consist of a hypothesis of the disposition of sanctions. We are now proposing to impose a terrible sanction -- a fine of a hundred percent of the amount of the contract, without the legislation providing for a clear violation, i.e. a standard position, that is not the case. In addition to allowing audiences to attend meetings, in accordance with article 48, paragraph 6, the members of the Auditorium who have the right to participate in the meeting are not only the audience but also the audit firms in the person of the authorized representatives. Today, most of the audit firms are registered in Kiev. Hence, audiences from Kiev will have a disproportionate majority of the votes of the assembly. In order to balance this, we suggest that the audience should be excluded from the convention so that only the audience can participate. This will ensure a proportional representation at the gathering of all the auditors working in the regions today. It is very easy to correct the decision to vote for the first reading. And then we're ready to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u150	Please, Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Mrs. Jujanina, please, they're giving her their word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u152	Colleagues, now, as I understand it, Mrs. Jujanina is now representing the position of a compromise committee, so that we don't lose the bill. You listen, please let us agree before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that there are no government representatives at all. As a minimum, the minister of finance should be here and insist on asking all the deputies to support the bill. This is our commitment, we have to implement this directive. And just because the committee has dedicated two years of work to draft a bill doesn't mean it's a committee bill. It's for the state, for the Ukrainian audience. I asked the Prime Minister to stay to hear what will be the discussion of this law, but there is not enough time for all. Because it's a deep professional law, not one that gives you the opportunity to go to the briefings right away. Consider, please, the adoption of the new Audit Act, which operates according to the 93 law, and we are proud that it works well. It works well, but it is morally and physically outdated. We got a lot of trouble from the fact that, including with the participation of the auditors, we have this effect in the economy of Ukraine. And enough to say that we can't change the criteria and requirements of the audit companies, then it's not the auditory, it's the consulting that just provides certain services to consulting, consulting or accounting. And that possibility must also be left behind, and it is left behind. So auditing is the higher substance of what our audit companies are doing right now, it's deep knowledge and knowledge in many areas. And you have to be both a lawyer and an economist and a financier, and you have a logical ability to sort out all production processes in order to make an audit opinion. And one person can't make an audit conclusion in terms of production volume of 250 million euros. What will this person do with the indicators, and how will he examine the significance of all the indicators reflected in financial reporting? I'm very sorry that now, by saying bad things, you're rejecting the entirely European experience that we have to introduce into our Ukrainian legislation. I urge you to vote in the first reading. For the second reading, as was the case with the amended bill, we will make changes that are only possible in the framework of the directive. Thank you. And I call for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Jarinich. Similarly, he conveys the word to a respected colleague of Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u155	I'd like to address the Head of the Supreme Council right now. We have all received: both the committee and you, Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, are asked to consider and support the bill in the first reading. You realize that this bill is due to work on January 1, 2018. We also need to accept it in our second reading. Let's all respond responsibly to the developed version, because once again, I repeat, thousands of suggestions we've taken into account. And second of all. Do you all like the restrictions that are now set for Ukrainian auditors by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers? Dear colleague of the Radical faction, how much can you lie? Right now, there is limited access for Ukrainian audiences to audit large businesses! And we're trying to change that. And there are progressive young audiences who are ready to unite, who are ready to create, on a European model, automated systems for auditing financial reporting that make it impossible to make the mistakes that are now being made. This takes both more resources and more opportunities. We have to move forward. It is the audience that will decide for themselves how to proceed. And those who fail to meet high European standards will, indeed, provide only services, counselling, and accounting. There's nothing to worry about. Because we also have new accounting standards now, and it requires a high level of expertise from finance department staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u156	Thank you. The last speech from Semenach, I take it, conveys the word to Ostrecki? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress again. The self-help faction's position is to support those provisions of the bill that really fit the European directive. But we want the first reading of the decree to take into account those very constructive proposals that are designed to improve this law. For example, determine a comprehensive list of significant violations to exclude an auditor or subject from the register. Article 22, paragraph 9, of the bill contains the concept of a fundamental and minor violation by an auditor. But what is essential, and what is irrelevant, is not defined in this bill at all. So our proposal, which actually presents the opinion of specific auditors, of specific audiences, is to complement this point with a second part that clearly identifies a comprehensive list of violations that are essential. And this can now be fixed in the regulation for the second reading. And then in the task force, we're going to write out these violations that are essential, which are irrelevant. Because one thing, if an auditor, for example, didn't digitize a page, it's not a major violation, and the other thing is, if he completely distorted the results of the audit, he actually wrote the information that doesn't match the reality, he fabricated the auditor's case. This is a completely different type of violation. Today, the proposed edition of this norm and the first auditor who made the mistake, and the second audience can be excluded from the register because of the breach, because it is not specified what is "essential" and what is "significant". That can't be right. That's why we're asking for these positions to be fixed in the regulation for the second reading. We also propose to expand the composition of the organizational committee to hold a meeting of auditors for one representative from the Auditorium of Ukraine and professional organizations of auditors and accountants who are members of the International Federation of Accountants. For a comprehensive, impartial monitoring of the setting-up of auditors to paragraph 5 of the Final Regulations, we consider it necessary to add to the list the composition of the organizational committee the establishment of a meeting of auditors for one representative from the Auditorium and professional organizations of auditors and accountants who are members of the international accounting organization. This will also ensure equal access and equal representation of all entities who are currently auditing and providing accounting services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u158	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Another final performance by Shinkovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u159	Asked to give the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u160	Please give the word to Chicken Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u161	Please, Chicken Maxim. Turn on the microphone. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u162	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I followed very carefully, like all of you, the discussion that is now taking place in the session room. He listened very carefully to all the fears that were expressed among our colleagues. But I want to tell you, as a member of many working groups to draft this finalized bill, all of your concerns are largely not true. All your concerns have been removed during the drafting of this draft amended bill. I am convinced that we cannot leave this sphere of social activity in the situation in which it has now stopped. And I'm convinced that we have to move forward because it's a normal, progressive, European reform, and this reform awaits, well, a whole bunch, here, the huge army of our audiences. Moreover, the expert environment gave a very favorable assessment of the bill. These experts were from all regions of Ukraine, and that's the right thing to do. Moreover, this bill is fully in line with the European Union directive on the harmonization of our Ukrainian legislation. We have to move on. I am convinced that the next few days, after the vote on the first reading, all the other shortcomings will be taken into account and the second reading of this bill will be even better than it is today. And now, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you very much, dear colleagues, let's vote this bill on the first reading as a basis, and then we'll work. The point is that this document is long ago being seen on the shelves of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, you can't pretend it's all right. We're voting and we're still working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u163	Thank you. Colleagues thus concluded the discussion. I now ask all the heads of factions to invite the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. And I would like to conclude with the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I am very responsible to tell you that there is no market tightening for Ukrainian audiences in accordance with this legislation. Indeed, there are observations that have just been made and that can be taken into account in the second reading. But we must all realize that we must implement the directive. And it was with full responsibility that I felt that implementation would take place taking account of the reality of the audience activity in Ukraine. We spent 2.5 years, spent more than 30 working groups, traveled all over Ukraine, and most of the audience signed their own opinion on supporting the bill. If you don't vote for the first reading now, that would mean that you don't represent the will of those people who are just doing the auditioning. I ask you with all seriousness and responsibility to respond to the decision of each of you, and to vote in favour of the adoption of this bill in the first reading. I will be very grateful for the suggestions you make to the second reading, and we will consider them as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u165	Nina Petrovna, can we put to the vote with the proposals made by Tetjana Ostrikov?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u166	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u167	Turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I don't want the work in the hall to turn into such a dispute between two colleagues from one committee. I promised Auntie Ostrov that we would consider these amendments, if possible, in full consultation with all the international experts working with us. And she may be present at these discussions. So there's no denying it. If there are really no criteria and they can be stated this way, we will write about it in the second reading. And there's nothing to be afraid of. Moreover, she has the right and the ability to trust me. We have never allowed ourselves to be overlooked, really what we can implement in Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. I understand the position of the committee. And I'd like you to take your jobs, prepare for the decision. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing. Wait a minute, I don't know if that's going to change the situation, let's say from the government. Please turn on the microphone. And come into the hall, take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u170	My colleagues, I would like to point out that this is an extremely important bill for our country, because it is this bill that provides for the implementation of our international obligations under the audit directives. It will allow us to open our accounts and show how our businesses are in a position to contribute to investment. The bill was supported by the World Bank, the European Commission, and most of the international experts who worked in the Hall. If there is any need for further work, we will gladly work on the second reading to make it the best for our audiences. So we're very much asking for support, because this is a very important document for our country and for our exit, and for our country to have the best credit resources for the development of our businesses and our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u171	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please prepare for the vote, colleagues, please take your seats. And I'm putting a bill on auditing financial reporting and auditing (6016-d) that's been developed on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:40:59]] For 213 Let's invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of returning to the draft Act 6016-d. Please support the return to the draft law, please vote, please vote. [[13:41:52]] For 218. Wait a second. Arthur Gerasimov, may I help you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, don't leave the session room, I'm asking you very much. I beg you, there's a little consultation coming up, please go back to the session room. We've spent a very important hour discussing the bill, the second time on the first reading, and it's important to give the result, please. Colleagues who happen to be in the clock at work, please return to the session room so that we can now give a successful vote after a very important full-time discussion. There was a second reading discussion, and they're all going to be sent to an extremely professional committee, where self-help MPs are the best, BPP, People's Front and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u173	So now we're going back to the bill and we're going to take it as a basis. And I hope the same will be support, partnership in all other bills. Really? Is that how it's gonna be? That's how partnership and cooperation will be. I would like to support the return to the draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing (6016-d). Please support, colleagues, return, an important European bill, each voice has weight. I'm asking you to vote back to 6016. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, colleagues, please vote every vote. Vote, please. [[13:44:11]] For 228 We're back, colleagues. Now I'm betting, colleagues, please come into the hall, you see, every voice has weight. And now I ask you to support the draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing Activities (6016-d) on the basis that we will be able to vote by the end of the year in the second reading. Colleagues, please, every vote, I ask for your support, and I ask you to vote. Vote, colleague, support, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Vote. [[13:44:59]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now have two bills, stay put, don't leave. Now we have two bills that apply. Don't come out, fellows. Stand on the door. Don't let anyone out. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, and I'm putting it to a vote right now, putting it in order for us to take a decision on the Ukrainian Law on Central Executive Authorities, on reforming Parliament. We did. During the 12:30 recess, talks with many deputies, and all the deputies promised to support. This is a reform of Parliament and our commitment to our European partners. And I'm asking, reminding everyone, colleagues, all the factions: "Peter Prashenko's Block," "The Will of the People," "The Rebirth," "The People's Front", "The Fathers" and "The Self-Help" are the inclusion in the agenda of a session, a colleague. So that we can make a decision today. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to support the inclusion proposal right now. The following are the railway forces. To include the draft Law 6256 in the agenda of the day session, my colleague, I ask everyone to support it. These are our European commitments. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote, please support. [[13:46:38]] For-188. Next I'm betting on. The factions, please. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Special Transport Service (No. 7242). Please support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote. [[13:47:18]] For-182 The decision is not taken. And now, colleagues, I'm asking you to consider the next two issues of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u174	Reform Parliament again? Let us once again reform Parliament, colleagues, let us look at the votes. Colleagues, let me give you a very responsible explanation. This is a direct implementation of the recommendations of the European Parliament, which comes into effect with the next call, my colleague, from the next call. It predicts that there will be the ratio of committees and the ratio of ministries, and it determines the number of committees, not their names, not their names, not their names, but just the number of committees that are usually written with ministries, colleagues. Perhaps not all have been informed, I will re-enter the agenda for the adoption of the draft Law 6256, the reform of Parliament, my colleague. I ask everyone, it is our European commitments, to vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making, all members of the working group, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[13:48:44]] For-179 The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 62, "Oboblok" – 0, "self-help" – 0, Radical Party – 9, "Fathership" – 6, "Will of the People" – 7, "Rebirth" – 1. Colleagues, the next two orders are in order of the day. These are our very long - standing commitments. You remember I didn't put them to the vote because we were expecting Helen Babak to report the Housing Services Act. She reported it, and we accepted it, and I promised that after this law I would put to the vote the question of ceasing the powers of national deputies. Now I'm making one decision after another. First of all, 6375: draft Decree to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Babak Olena. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:49:57]] For-141 Colleagues, it's not a vote, it's a reduced procedure, colleagues. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Keep it up, fellows. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:50:22]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please. Paul Vasilovich, I think we are going to vote briefly without discussion - just a report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we have considered to the Committee on Rules of Procedure on 5 April 2017 the application of the National Deputy, Alona Valeriyovna Babak, for the submission of parliamentary powers in accordance with the requirements of article 81, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and have made an appropriate draft decision for the consideration of the Supreme Council (number 6375). Please support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u176	Thank you. Colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? Please take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent termination of the power of the Ukrainian national deputy Babak Alona (6375). The committee proposes that it be accepted as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:51:57]] For-141 The decision is not taken. There's no political will in Parliament, Mrs. Alona, it's difficult, you'll still have to stay with us. Please, one minute. Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I thought Ukraine was free and Ukrainian women were freer. I'm asking you to support, please, this is just some nonsense. Please support my release, because this is my wish, this is my sense of moment in my life today. I think I should put in my parliamentary powers today. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u178	Thank you. I'll put it to the vote again. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Once again, I'm putting the ruling to a vote, the draft decree to suspend the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Babak Alona (No. 6375) as a whole, at the suggestion of the committee. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[13:53:22]] For-151 Colleagues, no, no political will of parliament. Mrs. Alona, I'm sorry. Colleagues, please, I think that putting many times is not worthy of Parliament either. You're on, I've put it up again, colleagues. Next, draft Decree on the permanent termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Constantinowski, number 7087. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to support the simplified procedure now simply. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:54:16]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of Pinzenic Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u179	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies, the National Deputy of Constantinople Vejacheslav Leonidovic, has filed an application for his representation of parliamentary powers in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. An application was made at a meeting of the Rules Committee on September 6, 17, and a draft Decree was introduced, registration number 7087. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-16-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I ask the heads of factions to invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. Please come into the hall, I'll wait 30 seconds. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy Constantinowski, number 7087. The committee proposes to vote in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:56:01]] For-174 I'll put it again, colleagues. It's a human question. If we don't get through, I can put it up after lunch. But please, let's focus now. Please prepare for the vote, please come into the hall. Colleagues, please take up jobs. This is the will of the national deputy. I see the MPs are good. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Constantinowski (No. 7087) as a whole. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:57:04]] For-183 That's not enough voices. Colleagues, according to the Rules, I can ask the personnel questions once again if they are supported. And so after lunch, when we have more mobilization in the hall, I'm going to try to ask these questions again. Likewise, I will try again to ask the question of reform of Parliament after lunch. And so, colleagues, we had a morning meeting. We don't have time to start the next bill now. We did a very fruitful job before lunch. I ask everyone to arrive without delay at 4:00 in the hall after recess. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And once again, I'd like to ask everyone at 4:00 to arrive at the hall on time. Thank you. I'll see you later.
