ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is complete, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall, please both the Secretariat, and the heads of the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration and please register, colleagues. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:09:04]] There are 352 deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, after lunch, we have an anticipated cluster of law enforcement issues, seriously and professionally worked by the committee. And we're going to look at it. The first law is the draft Law amending article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the order of prior imprisonment. My colleagues, I'm sorry, we have a discussion. My colleagues, I'm sorry, we have it now. Me. There's a lot of law enforcement going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, please return to the session room. Our work is about to begin so that we can discuss and vote for the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u3	Colleagues, I'm sorry, we have before law enforcement a draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Severerodonet City Council of the Luhansk Region (5247). And actually, we have to look at it and then we're going into law enforcement, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take jobs. Now I'm going to put to the vote a motion for a summary procedure and ask everyone to support this proposal, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, we're moving on to 547 -- the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the North Korean City Council of the Lugansk Region. And I ask you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Please support me. Short-term procedure. Support us, colleagues, so that we can look at the block of law enforcement. [[16:12:46]] For-151 150-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the speech of Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, 114th District, Luganshina. Today there is a very difficult problem in Luhansk. The city of Severodonetsk is the district city of Lugansk. It is practically captured from the inside by a deputy corps. And if we put order in the city of Severdonetsk today, we will be able to bring order throughout our country. Today, the city is deliberately collapsing — economic, financial, and social. If winter is a difficult time for the country today, it's a disaster for Severerodonetsky. By the time the MPs steal tens of millions of dollars, they have liberated the city’s legal principal for the fourth time, and there are all legal grounds for that, and the courts have won. Today, the city of Severodonetsk gave its votes for every faction practically, for every political power in Ukraine. A year ago, Severodonetsk was based on the Communists and the Party of the Regions. Today, he is based and paid 60 percent for the pro - Ukrainian forces. Today I ask each of you to support this draft decision. I ask each and every one of you today to support the North Koreans who are suffering. Dear colleagues, if you have a question for me, please, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u5	Dear Mr. Sergio, I am convinced that the MPs have questions about the situation in Severodonetsky and you, but the brief procedure for dealing with this issue does not give you a chance to ask questions as a reporter right now. That's why I'm asking you to take your place. Have a seat, please. We'll deal with you after we've discussed how we're going to proceed. We're moving on, dear fellows. In fact, the question that is being discussed is really, really important and many of you are on Donbassa and many of you know the situation that has arisen in Severerodonetsky. Voiceover: Voiceover: Voiceover: Voiceover: Voiceover: Voiceover: Voiceover: Voiceover: Voiceover: The decision is made by the Secretary of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Alexi Honcharenko, who, unfortunately, is not in the session room today because of these dramatic events, and therefore cannot report this bill. But I want to read, there's a positive decision by the profile committee. The profile committee's asking for support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Igor, I'm telling the committee's decision when there's no co-rapporteur. And I have to imagine how now leading this meeting is, what is the committee's decision. Right? And now we're moving. I emphasize once again, colleagues, that the committee's decision is positive, and now I ask you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u6	Please, Denisenko Vadim Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u7	Please pass the word to Kudlainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block will support in its entirety the idea of the Order for the Assignment of Elections in the City of Severodonetsk. In fact, today, the City Council in Severerodonet is coming out, it's going beyond any sanity, and this is a showcase situation, including when families of military personnel were denied the help of only 32,000 dollars each, and at the same time the local authorities, without remorse, adopted a 35 million-dollar fundraiser for the purchase of 150 modern garbage containers. So we really need to give the locals the opportunity to choose a new town council that is worthy of further development. In general, the faction believes that the matter needs to be resolved as quickly as possible and asks that the room be supported and unified in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u9	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Lozova Andrew Sergiyovich gives Igor Mosiyczuk his word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished inhabitants of Luhansk, inhabitants of Severerodonetsk Of course, the City Council of Severodonets has repeatedly violated Ukrainian legislation, of course, corruption flourishes there, of course it deserves 100 percent to go to the elections and be dissolved. But you can't disband one city council and leave Kazakov's head behind, they have to go to both Kazakov and the city council. What's more, most of the city council and Kazakov are supposed to be sitting under Ukrainian legislation and that's a fact, and everybody who was in Luhansk who was protecting Lugansk, regardless of who's in position right now, but that's exactly what Kazakov and all that call that now formed the city council is going to leave if we want to see the Ukrainian Sverodononeck in the future. So on behalf of the Radical Party faction, I ask you to remove this bill from consideration, send it to the committee for further work. There is every reason to add to the election of the extra-deputy deputies, in turn, the election of the city head of the Severerodonetsk and to appoint, literally at the next plenary week, to consider, and to appoint for the term elections of the National City Council and the City Head. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you to Ukrainian Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u11	The word is Lapin Igor Aleksandrovitch, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u12	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, I honestly can't understand, i.e. there's a proposal to disband the council, but to leave the head alone. I'm something, you know, I may have a rainy day, but anyway, if someone's going to be in jail, let him go to jail and please let's plant him there. But to leave him with authority today, we're disbanding the council, to the new choices it's not clear what's going to be created, and the city's head, for which he just spoke, is going to be running the city one by one. That's one point. On the other hand, I'd like to consider the fact that in general, I understand that when there's no city head, then we can react to the Supreme Council, appoint elections. Let's still live in the legal field, because tomorrow someone won't like the city council of Kiev with their heads, and we'll decide here, we'll make choices every month. So I'm asking you to be first of all lawyers, and in this case, don't resort to these kind of populist calls. And if there's a man, if he's a separatist, let's put him in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u13	Thank you. The word is given to Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And please invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the factions to mobilize the maximum MPs. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, let us please not go to the rostrum in essence. All the speakers rightly pointed out that this is the city of Severodonetsk, which is essentially the capital of the Luhansk region today, and that's where the military-civil administration is, it needs to be strengthened. And if you talk about the claims that are before Kiev today. To Lugansk. The Severerodonian city head, there goes the trial. And the relevant authorities have to answer these questions. If there is a desire and a need for these elections to be held, a decision must be made accordingly. But the situation there is very scary. And we have to not make this decision too long. We just had a brief conversation with the profile committee. You and I have carried the vote several times today, and even the date has been incorrectly fixed. My proposal in this decision to set an election date is April 30th, because by this date it will be possible to prepare the appropriate committees and to proceed according to the law, and now to vote. If necessary, there will be reelections and city heads. Let's make the right decision, let's vote it. But we can't bring this up right now, it's crazy when the whole frontal area and the key city of it are running out of normal power and there's disorder, lawlessness, unwillingness, in fact, to exercise authority, anti-Ukrainian sentiments. This should stop playing around and take on responsibility today. I ask my colleagues to vote on this ruling today on the fixed date of the April 30th election.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The amendment was made by Irina Heratchenko. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Please, colleagues, please come into the hall. One more minute, there hasn't been a "will of the people." Sergey Melniczuk, one minute while the MPs are meeting, turn on the microphone. And please invite everyone into the hall. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u16	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Colleagues, this must be a decision to make on the elections in the region, and the city and head must also be changed, if possible, to make changes to the rulings in order to make a single decision. that you may not put the matter aside, and by one decree vote both for the election of the council, and for the reelection of the city's head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u17	The committee head says we can't do this right now, we can make a separate decision there, colleagues. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. Please maximize your mobility, take your jobs, your colleagues, please come into the hall. Can we move on to making a decision? Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the City Council of the Region of Lugansk (No. 5247), as amended by Irina Heraszczenko's transcription, on the proposal of the committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues, on the basis of a total of 5247. If you'll excuse me, colleagues, we're voting, please vote. [[16:26:06]] For 186 Colleagues, there was a second proposal to be made under the Rules, on a committee to work on. Do you support such an offer? Colleagues, let's all mobilize then around the second proposal to send to the committee. Don't leave the hall. To be sent to the committee for pre-work, colleagues. I ask you as much as possible to get into the hall and please support this offer, colleagues, please. Ready to make a decision? I propose to return to the committee for further elaboration the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the City Council of the Sierra Leonean Region (5,247) to return to the committee for further work. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please support us so that we do not lose our resolve. [[16:27:09]] For 224 Two votes, not yet, I see, please come in. Colleagues, please come into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall. I'm going to put it back and then I'm going to put it back again. Colleagues, please take up jobs, please. I'm proposing to return to draft regulation 5247 first. Colleagues, please vote back to 5247, and then I'll put it back on the committee. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, return to 5247. Vote, please. Please vote, please support. [[16:28:03]] For the 220. Colleagues, pay attention. Attention, colleagues, colleagues! Colleagues, I'll put back, return, colleagues. Please mobilize, I'll put you back in. Gather around, colleagues, please. So I'm going to put the first vote back, and then I'm going to stress that I'm going to return to the committee for work, and then I'm going to put it back. So I'm voting back on draft regulation 5247. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote back to the debate. [[16:29:39]] For 225 Colleagues, don't go in the hall during the vote. Let's go quickly, fellows, once again, bet on a return to 5247. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support, please support! [[16:30:14]] For 219 Colleagues, the final offer is the subject of a legislative initiative, let's unite around it. The last proposal under the Rules is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. I ask everyone to concentrate and the final proposal provided for in the Rules, and I will put it to a vote if it is not supported then the bill will be rejected. Everyone, please concentrate, please step up to the vote. And I'm voting on draft regulation 5247 to get the subject of the legislative initiative back on track. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, vote, please support. Vote! [[16:31:14]] For 231 231-yes. Decision taken. So, colleagues, we're moving to a cluster of questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll put it again, stay in your seats, colleagues, please stay in your seats, I'll put it again on the vote, the last sentence. Therefore, I ask everyone to take up their jobs again by voting 5247 to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please stand by, we're voting for colleagues! Please back up! It's a compromise offer, please support everyone, please vote, vote, colleagues! Returning the subject to the legislative initiative for further development Vote. [[16:32:13]] For 230 230 in favor, you make your decision. One minute, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to that. Which factions today did not vote in favour of this important decision: "The Opposition Block" and "self-help." And it's about, really, the front city that needs to be restored today, because there's really no Ukrainian power today. I want to go to the profile committee and to the author of the legislative initiative quickly prepare this decision, make a date for the election -- April 30th, bring it to Parliament, and in two weeks, when the vote is on, we need to support it quickly. It's insane that we take the embroidery for the Ukrainian Donbas, but we can't support the local population that needs to change the area. Do you understand what's going on? [[Applause]] And the mayor who deserves it. And I'd like to ask law enforcement authorities to look at what's going on in there with the mayors, who have been sitting there for 20 years, "thirty" so far, very often in these frontal cities, and there's no way anyone can handle matters, including separatism. And there's someone to talk to about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u19	Thank you. Let's move on to the law enforcement unit. And the first is the draft Act amending article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the treatment of prior imprisonment (5259, 5259-1 and 5259-2). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. I'd like a brief procedure, colleagues, please. [[16:34:08]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Justice Minister of Sebastián Natalia Ilarionovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u20	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We are opening a law of great importance with you today. May I have your attention, please? In November 2015, you made a very important and very right decision in this room. In view of the fact that we today have very difficult conditions for punishment in the Ukrainian S.I.A. and prisons, in view of the fact that the courts have been dealing with cases for a very long time, and sometimes people at 4-5 years of age are looking forward to a court decision, you have created a formula that one day in the S.I.A. counts as two days of punishment. But in practice, the situation went to a different level. During this period of time, we see that more than 6,000 persons have been released, 11 percent have already committed repeated crimes and returned to their places of deprivation. The crimes of others are still being investigated, so today the government is asking you to consider a proposal for another formula, for which those who committed particularly serious crimes are killings, rapes, their sentences will be counted one day at the S.I.S.A. in one day's imprisonment. And for those who have committed minor crimes, we will leave the formula that you accepted in this room: one day at the hospital in two days of imprisonment. You are asked to support this project in the first reading, but if you please, in general. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, we have three alternative bills here. Mrs. Natalie, you represented 5259. I now invite the author of the alternative bill of the Ukrainian National MP Eugenia Murayeva. Please, Mr. Eugene. Eugene is introducing Bill 5259-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, as a result of the application of the so - called Savchenko Law, were released from the detention of more than 7.5,000 persons from places of deprivation of liberty. Most of them were convicted of committing serious and particularly serious crimes. In general, only one percent of the total number of people there were released. In addition, many of the individuals in question have committed repetitive crimes. Therefore, it is clear that the "Savchenko law" is unfair and socially harmful, and the amendments made to article 72 of the Criminal Code need to be repealed. The government bill, an alternative draft by the people's representative of Kupreia, leaves a valid regulation and complements it with additional rules. They propose to establish different treatments for the duration of prior imprisonment, depending on the severity criteria of the crime committed by the individual, and in the Kupreia project, the repetition and duration of the previous imprisonment. These suggestions do not take into account the fact that in practice those who are first convicted of committing crimes of small or medium gravity tend to be penalized without being deprived of their will. A precautionary measure of keeping watch is hardly applied to them. The setting of such rules will result in different conditions for the term of prior imprisonment for the various convicts. So this will lead to legal inequality between the different persons to whom the same precautionary measure is applied: keeping in custody. This does not answer, in particular, articles 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Article 5, 6th, 8th, 13th. In turn, this is not a valid reason for the European Court of Human Rights to enjoy appropriate actions against Ukraine. Our nation holds first place in the load of the European Court of Justice. The number of lawsuits against Ukraine is deplorable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u23	How much do you need? One minute, please give the author a moment to finish the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u24	The number of lawsuits against Ukraine is staggered and approaching 20,000 a year. That's 22 percent of all lawsuits in 2016. Such a situation entails negative economic consequences. In 2015 - 2016 alone, Ukraine has paid over one billion 200 million dollars from the State budget, according to a European Court of Human Rights decision. Compared to 2011 - 2012, the amount has increased by 20 times, i.e. the bills cited do not solve existing problems but only reinforce them. Unlike others, the proposed Bill 5259-1 provides for a return to the previous edition of part five of article 72 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which is in line with the code. He establishes a just order for the court to take into account the term of prior imprisonment, as well as the removal of conditions for the deterioration of the criminogenic situation in the country. The drafting of my bill is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority with some minor clarifications to be taken into account in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u25	Regulation. One minute's over. Thank you, the position is clear. Thank you, Reverend Eugene. I'm asking the secretariat to follow the rules. One minute was added, not three. Please, the alternative bill is now being presented by the author of the Vitaly Kuprey bill. This is Bill No. 5259-2. Please, Mr. Vitalia. I'm sorry we had an emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, as a lawyer who has been in charge of human rights for more than 10 years, I voted in favour of the law called Savechenko (the day after two previous imprisonments), because he wanted to support our citizens who are holding on without a court decision and are now in inhumane conditions, sometimes getting out of these S.I.S.O. with disabilities, die there. To encourage the state to reform the penitentiary service. I want to remind you of an example that is now in Georgia. Michael Saakashvili made Georgia a criminal state, almost 1 out of every 10 citizens were in prison, bullied, raped, humiliated. Thank God, this situation has changed for the moment. Along with the deputies, I visited Georgia last year and saw what a real reform of the penitentiary system had taken place there. First of all, there's no S.I.S.O. at all. People stick to the same conditions as convicted, uncondemned, perhaps just the conditions of admission to these people. They have the ability to watch TV, play football, play chess. People, I wanted to point out once again, they're not yet convicted or found guilty by the courts, but they're in human condition. What's happening in our country right now, you see. These battles are loaded with botches, the battle of the SSO, and no one is responsible for what's going on right now. We're proposing an alternative -- not to abolish Savechenko's law, but to apply those terms, for example, a person is accused of a simple and average crime for up to 4 months, if he stays there, it's one by one, then one by two. Or especially heavy and heavy, it's more than six months. We discussed the matter on the committee, and we might conclude that a little bit from the first to the second reading of these lines and say, well, there are boundary terms of pretrial investigation, if they're exceeded, which means the investigation is wrong, people are being held in the WHO.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u28	If now, for minor crimes, the limits are six months, and for heavy and especially heavy 12 months, it is possible to use this limit and say: If a person is still holding and the case is not brought to trial, then that is illegal and the state must respond. Please support our alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, we have listened to the authors of three alternative bills, government and two deputies, and now, after all three bills, the position of the profile committee is presented to the chairman of the Legislature Committee, Andrew Cosemykin. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u30	The President-in-Office of the Ministry of Justice, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, considered at its meeting a draft law amending article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the improvement of the order of pre-trial imprisonment, i.e. the number 5259 and alternative bills on the national MPs of Murayev (5259) and the national MP of Kuprey (5259). The projects in question have a common goal, namely to amend the current wording of article 72, "The Rules for the Pre-Prison and Pre-Prison Period" of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which, inter alia, provides for the inclusion of prior imprisonment in prison terms in the form of the deprivation of liberty of one day of prior imprisonment in 2 days of deprivation of liberty. This rule was introduced into the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code of 26. 11.15 C.E. In line with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it recommends that the project number 5259-1 be given priority. After reviewing the status of the drafts, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee note that each project proposes its mechanism for regulating the procedure for pretrial imprisonment before the court’s sentence. However, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the plenary session in the first reading of Project No. 5259-2 to be based and to reject projects 5259 and 5259-1. But colleagues, I think that any discussion, any discussion on this matter, is in favour of solving this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u31	Thank you for your presentation to the committee. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing all three draft alternatives to this issue. And I'm asking you to sign up for factions and groups. Please, colleagues. Sergei Vlasenko, please represent the position of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u32	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, first of all, around this law, not the laws that we're considering right now, but the basic law is a lot of innuendo, speculation, manipulation and everything. A representative of the Ministry of Justice, speaking, said that there was really a huge problem when people were actually in detention without trial. In the insulators. True, she said that in five years, but as far as I know, there are cases in Ukraine where a man of 10 years, 10 years without a court sentence, was in a detention center. But this law did not only solve the problem of poor conditions in detention cells, in fact, it solved the problem of protecting human rights when a person was actually sitting without trial in places where he was deprived of his will. That is why this problem exists. Sadly, however, the law enforcement agencies have begun to speculate that people who allegedly came out of this law have committed a crime and this is a huge problem. In fact, this law did not relieve anyone of responsibility. These people would still be free. Someone got out two months earlier, someone three months earlier, someone four months earlier, but they'd still be out. And in a situation where Ukrainian law enforcement authorities can't provide their primary role in the prevention of crimes, they're shifting the arrows to the seemingly inadequacy of the law, to the seemingly lack of legal instruments. It's all there. But it's not the funky reforms of law enforcement, it's the actual reforms of the law enforcement agencies, and then we're not going to have cases where people are going to go out and continue to commit crimes. But the "Fatherland" faction supports two drafts of three that are proposed for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u33	Please let me finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u34	Thank you. We support both the government bill and the National MP's bill in those proposed texts, because they are essentially based on the principles that I spoke about in my speech. They protect human rights and, in principle, do not allow law enforcement officials to have an unlimited term of detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u35	Thank you for the faction's position presented. Now, please, from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, he is given the word. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Just three years ago, tomorrow, as this Parliamentary Hall voted in favour of the ruling initiated by Oleg Lášk and 23 political prisoners, including me, were released from the walls of the Lukyaniv SIZO. I thank everyone here, so many people have made an effort to do so, of those who are even now in this Parliamentary Hall. In two and a half years of illegal imprisonment, and illegal imprisonment was recognized by the court except for Parliament, I saw many things. I saw terrible prison conditions. I have seen innocent people tortured and punished inexplicably for what, but likewise, I have seen criminals, and I have rejected each other as impossible. Whether the Savachenko Law is just and needs to be changed and whether it should have been accepted. It was necessary to accept it clearly because the conditions in the WHO that are now are uncontrollable and many people are being held there illegally. But at the same time, I absolutely share the idea that there's a crime rate that's rising from people who are incorrigible getting out. So in summary, the Radical Party faction supports the bill of our colleague Vitalia Kupri. Why? We don't support government. And I ask you, Mrs. Natala, to convey: only because of the lack of respect of the Minister of Justice to the Committee of Professional Law Enforcement. Because the minister would have to not only mate, but also come to the committee and protect the bill. The other one. Mr. Murray's bill is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u37	How much? 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u38	Because let Mr. Murayev himself go to S.I.Z.O., sit the guilty one down without guilt, and then cancel everything and plant it all, and cancel it. That's why I support the Vitalia Cupria law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u39	I've got the position. Please, Sergey Melnichuk, from the People's Will Group, will present. I'm asking my colleague Odarchenk to sit down so we can see my colleague Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u40	Respectable citizens! Respectable citizens! We were told by the deputy minister that, for example, some who are suspected may be given a day or two, while others may be given a day or a day. Have you read chapter III of the Constitution of Ukraine? According to Section I of the Constitution, we have all the same people, they're all equal rights, and until a person is convicted, they're all equal. So, as I missed the profile committee, I'm surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u41	Please, from the People's Front, the People's Deputy of Amazanov. Mr. Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u42	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, colleagues, really, when in this House we passed a bill called the name of one of our colleagues, we probably didn't understand the euphoria that took place at the time, the terrible consequences that this bill could bring to our society? He really had antisocial consequences, and there's official statistics on that. We know that today more than 7,000 persons have come out of detention centres, from colonies in the correctional institutions of our state, precisely as a result of the adoption of this law. Indeed, as the deputy minister of justice pointed out, more than 11 percent were released and reentered the detention cells, entered the colonies, into the places where the punishments took place. But I want us to think about why they got there. They didn't get there for petty thefts, they got there for serious crimes, they got there for rape, for robbery, for murder. And today we're talking about the fact that this law has no antisocial consequences, it's a complete nonsense. Now those who say that someone was there in Georgia, as it is in the colonies and so on. Yes, the colonies can't be nice, the apiorium, they're the places where the punishment takes place. But now, to this day, reform is going on, reforming our penitentiary system. And we know that the Ministry of Justice has now eliminated the entire Penitentiary Service and made three separate departments. And now there are representatives of the working group from Parliament present in our Parliament, who are actually working to help Minust in these matters. And the question is not that we need to, the question is not that we need to reform or reform the penitentiary system, we need to force law enforcement to work so that people don't have to sit for more than ten years in the brothels. So today we're supporting a government bill, we think we should take it as a base, and we think we should take it as an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u43	30 seconds, please. Ah, you're done, aren't you? The People's Front supports the government bill. Colleagues from factions and groups, or all of them. Yeah, I know, now it's from the non-faction. The People's Front was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, From the non-fractional, please, Hope Savechenko, please. I ask my colleagues to return to the session room because there will be a vote in a minute. Please return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u44	Colleagues, maybe when we finally get through with this law, I'll stop hearing my name so often in this session hall and in general my last name? The law was right, and it had to be based, indeed, on the reform of the penitentiary and judicial system and the system of law. Because it was only today that a law was passed that the Radical Party called "the dragon laws of the '37s." I mean, they said they'd wake people up at the door again, they'd interrogate again, they'd force them to take the blame again, and so it was, and so it was. And this law really began to protect people from it. I do. Law 5259-1 is a law that is absolutely contrary to article 22. He takes away the improved rights of a human being, he goes for the deterioration of human rights, this law is impossible to vote on. Law 5259 is a violation of the 24th article of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u45	30 seconds, please give me a minute to finish. Give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u46	It puts people in unequal conditions, the selectiveness of the law. So I think that Law 5259-2 can be adopted as a basis and further developed. Because it's missing one detail, we still have a life sentence, and that's again, people who weren't even included in the first law and weren't counted now. And that goes back to the selectiveness of the law. These people have the right to ask for pardon from the same count: one day at a time. And you have to set a time limit for starting a reasonable period of custody. And then this law will and will work as properly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u47	Thank you. Demands the right radical party. Colleagues, please return to the session room and vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. What's the power, brother. or Sister Hope? In truth! And in the skill of admitting your own mistakes. With all due respect to you, voting for the law was a mistake. Because this law resulted in the release of people who then killed people who raped Ukrainian women who robbed Ukrainian pensioners by taking the last one out of their hands by taking a pension. Therefore, we need to acknowledge our mistakes. Today the time has come to admit this error, to correct the law, and all those who kill, who rape, who rob, must sit in prison, not walk in the wild. Because who will return the lives of these people, who will repay the honor of raped girls, who will return the stolen pension to the pensioner? Have the Power to Correct Mistakes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u49	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. For a long time, there was a discussion about these bills. Finally, the committee was able to deliver all the bills, and one of them, according to the statements, is the bill of government. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm going to put it in the sequence where it was given, and I'm going to put the government first, 5259. If it is accepted as a basis, then I will no longer bet others, colleagues. So, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the order of prior imprisonment (number 5259), as proposed by the Committee, on the basis of 5,259 as a basis, by colleagues. Yes, please vote, please support the government's base. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:00:23]] For 214 Colleagues, I'm going to put the next one, and then I'm going to put it to the final vote. The next 5259-1 is the people's MP Murray's bill. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. [[17:00:55]] For-47 The next 5259-2 is National Deputy Kupriy Vitali Mikolayovich. The committee supported him, offered him as a basis. Whoever supports this bill 5259-2, please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:01:29]] For 208 Colleagues, 208-yes. The decision is not taken. Of the three bills I've got the most 5259, so now I'm going to propose, colleagues, you've looked at what is the position on all the bills, actually close to government and Cooper, but the government has gained more votes. So let's now go back to the government and vote government based, colleagues. Please take up your jobs, please prepare to make your decision. Please enter the hall after the vote of the three bills, and the government has the most support. And so now I'm going to suggest that I go back to him and just accept him as a base, colleagues, just as a basis. I'll bet. Colleagues, please, all supporters of the Kuprei bill and the government bill, let's concentrate on one government bill, a colleague. I'm voting on the proposal to return to the draft Government Act, 5259. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues, not to overthrow the bill. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice is important. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:02:57]] For 225 We didn't make it, one man. Okay, fellows, I'm once again proposing to go back to consideration 5259. Please vote. Please support the return to review 5259, government. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:03:31]] For 234 We're back. 234-yes. Decision taken. I am now introducing a draft Law amending article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the treatment of prior imprisonment (5259) as a basis, colleagues, and colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:04:06]] For 235 235-yes. A decision is made as a basis. I want to make a fruitful second reading so that we can accept it more quickly in the final, second reading. We are next in line with the daily draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and certain other laws of Ukraine concerning the security of the state (5442). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please. [[17:04:49]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Mikola Petrovich, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u50	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Offences and Certain Other Laws on Foreign Security of the State. The bill amends the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, Ukrainian Laws: "On the State Border Service", "On the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine" and "On the legal status of foreigners, non-citizens" – which are primarily aimed at the effectiveness of the opposition to the protection authorities. [[B in m in s a l in]] which are carried out within the state border and within the temporarily occupied territory. In view of this, the urgency and importance of ensuring the State’s interests are taken into account in the implementation of the Ukrainian State’s legislation. Please accept. support the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill No. 5442 on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u51	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u52	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! A law enforcement committee has considered a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and some other laws on State Border Security (5442). This project amends the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, Ukrainian Laws on the State Border Service, on the Protection of Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and on the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine, and on the Legal Status of Foreigners, Persons Without Citizenship, and is primarily aimed at the effectiveness of countering the State border authorities with offences committed both in the state border of Ukraine and within the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the uncontrolled areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. In view of this, taking into account the urgency and importance of ensuring the State's interests in the implementation of the State's defined Ukrainian legislation, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that project 5442 be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Please support me, Andry Volodymyrovich. To be honest, this law is very important and technical, so it can be expedited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u53	Thank you. Colleagues, let's be very concise so that we don't have any more questions to consider. Please record: two for, two for, but very concisely, please. Please write down who wants to speak. Dove, turn on the microphone, please, Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u54	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Please give my word to my colleague Chumaku Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I certainly want to ask you to support this bill, it's important because the Code of Administrative Offences contains a list of articles that determine the responsibility for violating the rules of stay in the border band, the rules of stay across the border, which need to be strengthened very seriously, because now the responsibility at 85-170 bracelets is absolute nonsense, so I'm asking you to support it. But I want to go back to our meeting this afternoon and ask the head of the Supreme Council a question. During the period of appointment or appointment prior to Mr. Storch’s or Mr. Brown’s audit, the Head of the Supreme Council announced that he had consulted with the lawyers who had given him, in principle he had been advised to accept the opportunity to expel the audience by directly moving it into the hall. I went to Mr. Tepluk's Chief Legal Office and his deputy, Mr. Underpants, asking: Who gave such advice to Mr. Head? Honorary colleagues, not the head of the Legal Department, nor his deputy to such counsel to the Chief of the Supreme Council. Moreover, they confirmed that such a vote, the possibility, was possible only after the ruling had passed the committee. I then have a question to Mr. Andriy Volodymirovich Parubia. Dear Mr. Head, would you please give me a name, a name, after the father and office of those lawyers you use?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u56	Mr. Victor, I'm not supposed to interrupt on the whole subject, but I've given it the opportunity to complete it so that everyone has the opportunity to express their position in the room. Colleagues, we're about to make the final speech, and then we're going to vote. So I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall right now. And now the closing statement by Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the People's Front, and we vote. Please, Mr. Mikhailo. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u57	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give it to Andrew Amazanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u58	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. First of all it should be noted that the bill actually has an important purpose, because it is aimed at specific relationships, namely, to introduce a stronger administrative responsibility for crossing the border, the line of delimitation, which is now a very topical issue. But we should not immediately forget that today we have very much to do with what is happening today: both blocking and strategic plans to restore the territorial integrity of our nation. And I think that maybe hypothetically this bill, which was supported by a profile committee, could become one of the factors that would encourage us to develop a strategic plan, and the government did, and Parliament, to adopt one single-trusted bill that would introduce both trade rules and ban the movement and movement of certain goods and certain persons through a line of delimitation, and actually one huge strategic plan for us to bring back, in fact, control first, and then to bring back our unitaryness, the territorial integrity of our nation from Donbas to Crimea. Thank you. I suggest we adopt this law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u59	Colleagues, please come into the hall, please. Colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, please take up jobs, we are moving on to making decisions. Please, colleagues, take your jobs, let's move on to making a decision. An important bill, the committee proposes to take it as a basis. And I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. And I'm voting on a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and some other laws of Ukraine on ensuring the state's border security (number 5442) on the basis of a committee proposal, a colleague, on the basis of that. Please vote, please support me as a base. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:13:27]] For 208 208 for, colleagues. Who didn't make it. Let me put it on return if I don't. They vote. Colleagues, you're voting, aren't you? Do you vote? They're there. Please, colleagues, take your jobs. I'll be back in a minute. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Vote for what? One minute, colleagues. Now I'm going to ask you to vote for the return, and then I'm going to vote for the basis. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. I propose to return to draft Law 5442, and I ask you to vote. So, colleagues, we vote back to 5442. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:14:33]] For 218. Colleagues! Colleagues, if I put you back on the committee for work, will that be supported? Okay, I'll put it again, if there are no votes, then I'll put it back on the committee for work. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Colleagues, let me support the committee. There's basically a bill, it's important, but it's not complicated, and in fact there's nothing to work on, you have to make decisions. Come on, come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Colleagues, conscientiously, please take up jobs, because there is no point in working on it, you have to make decisions. So, colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? Colleagues, please, draft Law 5442, back to the table. Please vote, please support. 5442 - return to consideration. Please vote, colleagues. Don't leave the hall. Please be supportive. Please support, colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[17:16:09]] For 222 Colleagues, 222. Okay. Colleagues, 30 seconds, invite people into the hall. Please invite people into the hall. 30 seconds, please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! Sobolje, Fatherland. Because a number of regulations on regulating the very important activities of the border guards are now blurring out, we now have a terrible tragedy in Berdjansk, where the border guards, in carrying out their duties, stopped the car at a huge speed, shot up and down the wheels. Sadly, though, a woman who tried to cross the border with her husband was killed. Now a border guard who has fulfilled his 13 - year sentence, think about it. And the key references are that a person who has fulfilled his duty is sentenced to 13 years of age.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u61	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u62	The bill allows for a clear balance between those who do not legally cross the border and those who do their duty to the State. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u63	So, colleagues, please take your seats, get ready for the vote, you see, every vote matters during the vote. Everyone, please take the job. It is good to speak patriotic words on the air, harder to be in the hall and make decisions in support of the border guards. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 5442. Please, colleagues, vote for everyone and please support me, colleagues. Vote 5442 - back to consideration. Please vote, please support me, colleagues! We're voting carefully. Colleagues, please vote. [[17:18:28]] For 229 229, we're back. Just please, there, colleagues, I don't want to call your last name, go back to your cards. And I'm putting a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and some other Ukrainian laws on State Border Security, 5442 on the ground. Based on the base. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, based on 5442. Vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote, vote. [[17:19:11]] For 235 235-yes. Decision taken. I very much ask, colleagues, when we vote to enter the hall, I will report in advance, but so that we can be in the hall and not gather a few deputies each time. We move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the criminalization of smuggling of dangerous substances, parts of firearms. 3254. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[17:20:11]] For 184 184 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to see the report of Cosmiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u64	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, your view is suggested to consider the draft Act amending article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (for criminalizing smuggling, dangerous substances, parts of firearms) (No.3254-d). This project was worked out by a committee on the basis of a bill proposing to criminalize the smuggling of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. However, no criminalization of such goods was found in the Supreme Council on October 20, 2016, and in the committee. According to members of the committee, illegal movement across Ukraine’s customs borders must be combated by economic measures rather than by criminal measures. The amended bill proposes to include in the list of smuggling items provided for in article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, first, hazardous substances. In view of the weakening control in the area, law enforcement authorities have identified isolated cases of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of potentially dangerous substances, including unknown origins and toxic wastes of the industry. And two, parts of the firearms. During the years 2014-2015, the evidence of smuggling has been repeatedly recorded. sending parts of firearms to Ukraine that were hidden from customs control. On the basis of the foregoing, the Committee, by its decisions, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt, on the basis of a revised draft of Ukrainian Law No.3254-d. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u65	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Please, Alexeyev. And, colleagues, as far as I can see, there's only one play.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Andrija Pomazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u67	Please, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich. Then I'll give you my word. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u68	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Well, we have a situation in the country you know all about. And in fact, as the head of the profile committee has said, in recent times, there have been quite a number of cases where the state is sending non-specific weapons across the border, because they will be removed immediately, but specifically removed from it, and then it ceases to be a firearms. That's why this bill is actually slightly expanding the essence of this criminal article, articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and adds the same "parts of firearms". So I think this law is absolutely right and it will strengthen control in this area. I think this law should be adopted as a basis. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u69	Please, Igor Mosiychuk. Mr. Mosiyczuk, you asked me to give you the floor for discussion. Mr. Mosiyczuk Igor, you asked me to give you the floor to discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u70	Colleagues, but this will be a closing act. Which is why I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u71	The Radical Party faction will support this law because it is really necessary to criminalize arms smuggling. But I actually wanted to stop at another place right now. An extraordinary situation in the country. In fact, a group of individuals involved in separatism is exposed in the country. And my colleague Dennis Silantiev made it clear that he was ready for his assistant to be interrogated, found out, and everything. What's my point? Now in the Ravensky District Council, think about where Mikola Draganczuk's head from "The Fatherland" is being searched, the materials are being removed, because Mikola Kucheruk, leader of the local Fatherland, has made separatist calls. And I'm talking to my colleagues, just like my colleague Silantiev, to judge, to disentangle and to give opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u72	Mr. Igor, you have made an appeal, although during the discussion we need to speak on the subject of the bill. Colleagues, the bill is supported by all the factions, all the deputies in the room. It's a really important thing in which the Ukrainian Security Service has particularly little recourse to us, because they say that when they're breaking in for smuggling, then you can just give a fine because of the administrative withdrawal, and it's much cheaper than the money they get for smuggling. For a long time, the Security Service asked us to do so. Let's support the committee, let's vote on the bill. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. Please, friends, don't leave the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And I'm voting on a bill amending article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the criminalization of smuggling of dangerous substances, parts of firearms (3254d) on the basis of a committee, a colleague. All colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please be supportive. Please vote for base 3254. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:26:35]] For 212 212. I see everyone's backing up. We didn't make it. Please, I'll put you back. Come into the hall, please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll wait 30 seconds, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Palamarczuk one minute. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall right now. Please, one minute, Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, my friends, this bill is very important, it's important that we today can't fight the fact that we're being mailed weapons, then they're collecting them, sending them to Ukraine, and we're not voting on such an important bill. There's no political, no political, no political. We have to do what we have to do, allow our border guards, our people to fight the evil of importing illegal weapons and reactive substances into Ukraine. What's not clear? Please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u74	Please take up jobs. Now I'm going to make a return offer. Colleagues, please come in and take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to call the deputies who just left. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of smuggling of dangerous substances, parts of firearms (3,254). Colleagues, please support. Each voice has a weight. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. No, one second, one second. Please take up your jobs, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Mr. Demczak and other colleagues, please come to your workplace. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ruslan, please go to your place of work. Well, that's rude when we call.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u76	I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 3254. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Careful, fellows! Vote. [[17:30.]] For 224 Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. Take up jobs, colleagues, everyone in the hall. Two votes. My colleagues, please concentrate, I'll put it back together. Colleagues, take up jobs. Can I put it to a vote? Please, two votes! I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 3254. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful! Is everyone in place yet? Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:31:08]] For 235 And I'm putting the draft Law on Amendments to Article 201 of the Criminal Code (No.3254) as a basis, colleagues. Don't go away, please don't go away. Based on 3254. Please vote, please support me as a base. [[17:31:40]] For 239. Decision taken. The project is to be accepted as a basis. Colleagues, we still have a law enforcement block, a second reading, but very short drafts, so I'm asking you not to disagree. Colleagues, they're very short and they're simple, there's a few lefts, there's not even going to be a discussion, because that's the second reading. Everyone, please remain seated. So the first one. The draft Act (the second reading block) amending articles 71 and 83 of the Ukrainian National Police Act on the Assignment of Other Special Names (5006). And I invite the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, a comparative table of the draft Act amending articles 71 and 83 of the Ukrainian National Police Act on Assignment of Other Special Names (No.506) is proposed for your consideration, which the Committee has prepared for the second reading. Let me remind you that this project was adopted on November 15th. The project proposes to amend articles 71 and 83 of the Ukrainian National Police Act with the aim of regulating the question of assigning other special names to the police, who are seconded or seconded to the State executive authorities, enterprises, institutions and organizations in accordance with the position taken. During the preparation of the project, four proposals were received from the national deputies. The committee took into account one proposal by Mr. Palamarchuk and rejected three proposals by the national deputies Dmitrenko and Levchenk. You have a comparative table. Colleagues, the committee recommends the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general, and in any case, it's very short and I think it's a technical law. Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u78	Thank you. But we're going to go through all the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u79	Yeah, there's only four.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u80	Yeah. Please, first, Dmitri. Don't insist. Two o'clock, Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u81	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I find it unacceptable that there is an institution where a national deputy, a representative of local self-government bodies, who is a military officer, a police officer and so forth has the opportunity to deploy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine or local self-government authorities for a term of office in designated bodies and institutions. In fact, such an idea is essentially corrupt because a person who actually exercises the mandate of a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or of local councils is considered a period of such work as the conduct of military service or the service of law enforcement authorities with appropriate benefits and benefits in the future. At the same time, he does not perform any tasks, including combat. This, in turn, puts persons who are actually engaged in combat, or any other task in law enforcement, or military service. So my amendment is about cleaning up such an idea that it is not possible to include work in the Supreme Council or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u83	Mr. Yuri! I'm with you, in my soul, I agree with you and you say the right thing, but unfortunately your amendment contradicts the concept of a project adopted in the first reading, you know. Moreover, it needs to amend the laws on the status of the national MP, on the status of the national deputies of the local councils. Sadly, it is rejected for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u84	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet on the vote number two of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[17:35:42.]] For-137 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, we have actually the last draft, and so I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and ask them to invite the deputies into the hall -- this is the 4th amendment of the People's Deputies of Lehchenka. Is it insisting? Please turn on the microphone to Lechchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u85	The position of use of two concepts: one is "commissioned" and the other is "deployed", which is essentially the same, is unearmarked. Furthermore, in the accompanying documents to the bill, any argument that would prove the need for such a legislative step, which is proposed to assign a number of special names to police officers who are left in the service of the police to public authorities, enterprises, institutions, organizations that are responsible for the submission of directors of the designated bodies of enterprises, institutions or their authorised representatives. And once again, I regret that my first amendment has not passed, absolutely not logical, there is no logical explanation, from the point of view of social justice, on the contrary, contrary to the principle of social justice. When a person works in one body but receives an internship and appropriate future benefits entirely for other tasks, it is totally unacceptable. That is, once again, we sow hatred of politicians in society. Why would you do that? Nevertheless, I insist on correction and insist that such steps are not taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u86	Will you comment, Andriy Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u87	Dear Mr. Jury, first of all, I thank you for always working and amending our bills that are being drafted on the committee, and I thank you very much. Moreover, they cause much discussion, which ultimately leads to the correct conclusion of the legal system. But unfortunately, in this case, it's once again in conflict with the concept of a project that was adopted in the first reading and everything, and that's the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u88	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? I put to the vote amendment number four of the People's Deputies of Levchenk, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:38:03]] For 124 The decision is not made. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Please invite all deputies to the decision-making room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, please return to the hall and vote (second reading) on the important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u90	So, colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? So please prepare for the vote and I'm putting to the vote the draft Act amending articles 71 and 83 of the Ukrainian National Police Act on the assignment of special titles. Second reading and a total of 5006, do you have all the cards, boys? Please vote, please support, colleagues, vote. Let's vote, 5006 in second reading and in general, please support, vote, colleagues. [[17:40:00]] For-187 187. Decision taken. How about another one? Colleagues, we have a political discrepancy under this bill. Let me do the second one again. Will you support the second one again then? Let's go, fellows, to read again. Come on. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. Let's re-read the second reading. Colleagues, please, I would like to put to the vote the following sentence: draft Act amending articles 71 and 83 of the National Police Act on Assignment of Special Names, re-reading the second reading. Please vote, please support, for re-second reading, colleagues. Please support me. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:41:08]] For-189 There is no position either, so the draft Law 5006, unfortunately, has been rejected. We have the next draft of Law 3719. So, colleagues, 3719. I ask you very much, colleagues, to concentrate, this is also a second reading, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on Certain Issues of Investigative Action in order to provide additional guarantees of legality in their implementation (No. 3719). This is also a second reading. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u91	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I'm asking your attention because this is a very important bill that is proposed for your second reading. It's a law that's been waiting for six months. And I am very grateful that today it is in the order of the day to amend Ukraine's Criminal Procedural Code on Certain Issues of Investigative Action in order to provide additional guarantees of legality in their implementation. So this bill was adopted on September 8, 2016, on the basis of a reduced preparation period for consideration. There were 137 proposals and amendments made by the national deputies, 29 included, 142 rejected, and two proposals were rejected by the decision committee and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be decided. In preparing for the second reading, the committee concluded that in order to preserve and improve, not, to say the least, to distort the concept of a bill adopted in the first reading. Therefore, the proposals from the national deputies are taken into account. But what does this bill offer us? The rules on the prohibition of the temporary removal of electronic information systems by allowing investigators to copy information, not the removal of technology, once. The other one. The rules allowing special departments to be used during searches into the subject of the farm are excluded on the basis of the arrest of the investigating judge and only on the basis of serious and particularly serious crimes. Third. Positions to ensure the lawyer's access to the search process at any stage of the search. Four. Positions that allow searching only as an exceptional investigative action when it is not possible to obtain information in another way. Fifth. A description of the items and persons to be found is provided by the footnotes that make it mandatory to reason on the need for a search and to describe them in detail. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law on second reading and generally as a law. The table is given to you. Please take a look. And I'm asking you to identify yourself from this question. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u92	Thank you. Let's move on to the right-hand side. I'll read it. 3rd, Burgundy. Don't insist. The 4th, Semenha. Don't insist. 5th, Goose. Don't insist. 6th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 7th, Captain. Don't insist. 8th, Goose. Don't insist. 9th, Spinov. Don't insist. 10th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 13th, George. Don't insist. 16th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 22nd, George. Don't insist. 25th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 27th, Semenha. Don't insist. 30th, Lensky. Don't insist. 31st, Captain. Don't insist. 32nd, George. Don't insist. 33rd, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 34th, Markevich. Don't insist. 37th. 38th, Sold. Don't insist. 41st, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 47th, George. Don't insist. 48th, Semenha. [[B in m in s a l in]] Which one? 49th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u93	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. With the 49th amendment, which is considered by the committee, it is proposed to delete paragraph 3 of the bill, which is complemented by article 223 of the CPC, part 9 on the restriction of the use of special units of special means of concealing appearance: facial masks, balaclavs, etc. And to demonstrate weapons or special means, in addition to exceptional cases, during a criminal investigation into a serious or particularly serious crime. We see all the time, all the time, like, basically, aunts with steps of law enforcement, wearing talkatives, breaking into people's homes or taking people straight into the streets, throwing them in cars. And we don't even know who these people are. It's not even possible to do it against them. Infringing a criminal case, bringing it to the GDR and initiating a pre-trial investigation cannot be brought to justice because they are masked by balaclavas. So this amendment is totally unacceptable, and I demand that it be put in place for confirmation now, and I urge you not to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u94	Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u95	Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, I think there's an initiative of the people's deputies. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u96	Please. You insist, don't you? So I'm betting on confirmation of the 49th amendment that the committee took into account. If you support the committee, please vote in favour of the 49th amendment, please vote. [[17:47:37]] For 109 The decision is not made. 53rd, Costenko. Don't insist. 54th, Mischenka. Don't insist. 57th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 59th, Semenha. Don't insist. 61st, Goose. He insists. Please turn on the microphone, please turn on the microphone. Somehow the microphone didn't turn on, but I heard that. I can put it to a vote, right? You don't have to turn it on, do you? You can't see it in your place. Okay. So I'm putting 61 amendments that the committee rejected, but the National MP is asking her to support. So whoever supports the amendment of 61 national deputies, Gusak, please vote. Please vote who supports the 61 amendment, please. [[17:48:57]] For a-117. The decision is not made. 64th, Mischenka. Don't insist. 70th. 72th, George. Don't insist. 74th, Sold. Don't insist. 77th, Costenko. Don't insist. 79th, Semenha. Don't insist. 81st. Sold. Captain. Don't insist. 83rd, Sold. Don't insist. 84th, George. Don't insist. 87th National MP, Captain. Don't insist. 89th, Goose. He insists. See if your card is in place. Please turn on the microphone. People's deputy Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u97	Please put this amendment to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u98	Thank you. Thus, 89 amendments were made by a national MP who was rejected by the committee. The supporter of Amendment 89, please vote. Please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[17:50:25]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 91st, Lubinets. Don't insist. 96th, Goose. Don't insist. 102nd, Mishchenko. Don't insist. Guys, there's still a few changes left. We'll pass the vote in a few minutes. So I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, and in a few minutes we'll go to the vote. 109th, Sold. Don't insist. 110th, Costenko. Don't insist. 111th, Costenko. Don't insist. 113th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 116th, Lensky. Don't insist. 118th, George. Don't insist. 120th, George. Don't insist. 125th, Sold. Don't insist. 126th, Markevich. Don't insist. 136th, Sold. Don't insist. 137th, Mishchenka. Don't insist. Colleagues. 143, Lensky. Don't insist. 148th, Semenha. Don't insist. 149th, Costenko. Don't insist. 150th, right? 150th. Turn on the microphone, please 150 repairs, Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u99	I wanted to. Before making a proposal, I'd like to hear the reporter's position because I think there's been a little bit of a legislative mess about 150 amendments. And I would still like to understand that there is a bill in which now, in the final text, there is a possibility or no possibility of removing the corresponding electronic media without the approval of the courts or the possibility of such a possibility. Because in the original version of the bill it was written that without the court’s approval it could not be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u100	Yeah, that's what's left.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u101	And then there's this amendment-amendment thing, and the final version is still unclear. So let's say this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u102	What I'm saying is that it's the same as it was, so without a court order, it can't be. So this bill actually improves today and provides, let's say, the safety of those who are under investigation, or of law enforcement personnel, let's say, unexpectedly. He's filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! There is no insistence on voting. We've actually been through all the amendments, there's no one who wants confirmation. Colleagues, this is the committee head's closing statement. I'm sorry, Pigeon. Yeah? Turn on the microphone, please, 1 minute pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! As the author of the bill, I ask you all to support the bill. This is a bill that is not just for Ukrainian business, but for people who are actually focused on Ukraine and want to invest their money here, in particular in the IT sector. And what's more, we've been witnessing some kind of illegality of law enforcement, so let's stop this and show that Ukraine is a civilised state where we can run our business freely. The drafters of the bill are all factions, so once again I ask you to vote in favour of the bill, and all Ukrainians will say thank you for stopping at some point from law enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u105	So, colleagues, the closing statement and we're going to vote. I ask, too, to actively invite just a colleague, because here any voice can have weight, indeed. So, Kožemykin Andriy Anatoliyovich and let us move on to making a decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u106	Andriy Volodymyrovich, I want to say that this is this project, which is signed by the deputies of all factions, because it unites really all of our deputies who offer it, their motivation is very simple and concrete, not allowing people today who are involved in corruption in law enforcement, to stop any business structure by removing those or other electronic media, or others, let's say, computers, and mobile connections, and everything else. All of this is a very important and specific law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m1.u107	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on Certain Issues of Investigative Action in order to ensure that additional guarantees of legality are carried out on them (number 3719) in the second reading and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, fellows! Please vote. Please support me, colleague, we're voting! [[17:56:13]] For 197 197. Colleagues, please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll put them on return. Colleagues, please. I propose to go back to the draft Law 3719. I ask you to vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:57:03]] For 205 Colleagues, second reading again. Let's unite. Second reading again, colleagues. Let's not lose the bill. I'm asking you, colleagues. So let's support all of these re-reading groups. I see there are voices in the hall. Let us unite around this proposal. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for individual issues of investigation with a view to ensuring additional guarantees of legality in their implementation) (No.3719) to send for a second reading again. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote, fellows! Please support the second reading. Please vote. [[17:58:01]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Draft law. Don't go away, colleagues, please. Guys, please, I'm gonna put you back on the line again, put you back on the line. Please get your men together then, colleagues. Then gather the men, if you just put them in. Invite the deputies to the hall. I'm not taking them from anywhere, colleagues. So I'm going to put again, colleagues, and once again, so that we don't lose the bill. I'm going to put the second again so that those who have doubts don't have any questions about that. So I'm going to put the second reading back on, and then the second reading again. Guys, I'm asking you to focus. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 3719. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:59:40]] For 210 210. No votes. The decision is not made. The draft Law 3719 has been rejected. My colleagues, I'd like to read another announcement that came to the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union Green Energy Change in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies Katzer-Buchkovska Natalija Volodymyrovna, Rybčina Alexija Mihajlovich, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna, and Edna Šapa Volodymyrovich. Congratulations on your creation. And, colleagues, I want to remind you, at six o'clock we're having Crimea Day, and on the third floor. Acceptance of the Day of Crime. I'm asking colleagues of the people's deputies to take part in this action, which reminds us that Crimea is Ukrainian and that we have to make every effort to regain the control of Ukrainian power over the occupied part of our nation. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work and I'm asking everyone tomorrow at 10 o'clock to come to the hall to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
