ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow believers! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? So, colleagues, please hold the registration. [[10:03:26]] A total of 338 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And today, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. And I'm asking all the factions and groups to record the performances. Colleagues, please be careful. If anyone hasn't been able to log in, I'll re-record. Please prepare all the factions and groups. Ready? Please hold the recording. Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich gives the floor to Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Unfortunately, I have to start with the sad news. As you know, last week, Peter Dustenka's Block suffered a terrible loss. The brutal killings led to the absence of our colleague and collaborator, the deputy and leader of the Solidarity faction in the North London area of Sergey Samarski. Many national deputies, not only from our faction but also from public activists, were personally acquainted with Sergei. Undoubtedly, life came from an inextricable man, a true patriot, and a champion of integrity, the sovereignty of Ukraine. Sergey Samarsky actively defended the pro-Ukrainian position and opposed the Yanukovich regime long before the Dignity Revolution. He felt the full extent of the hybrid war of Russia, surviving the terrors, but he did not break and continue fighting for Ukraine. After his release, he actively assisted the displaced, initiating recognition of Russia as an aggressor at the city level. The killing of politicians and patriots cannot now be allowed to go unpunished for the enemies of Ukraine. Therefore, we urge the law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators of the murder of Sergei Samarski to justice before the law. The enemies of Ukraine should know that every crime and act of terrorism will have a devastating effect on the perpetrators and the customers. An attack on patriots like Sergey Samarsky, Amina Okiveva, is another challenge for an independent Ukraine by an aggressor. I would also like to remind you that over the past week, there have been elections of heads and deputies in more than 200 united communities. And once again, I would like to stress that the Peter Dust Block of Solidarity in these elections won a decisive victory. This recognized not only our calculations but the calculations of various social organizations. For example, 114 of the 201 elected heads of the united territorial communities are the heads that have been or have been supported by the "Solidarity Block" of Peter Poroshenko. This indicates that Ukrainian society has made a choice for real reforms, not for criticism and populism. At the same time, the confidence of the electorate is a powerful signal for us to continue the changes made by the President of Ukraine and his team. In particular, decentralization is now one of the most effective changes and most effective reforms. More than 200 communities will be able to use their own resources effectively and independently to develop their communities. And to the end. You know, yesterday, during the Conciliation Council, it was very interesting to hear a lot of radophils talking about the beginning of pension reform. But one very interesting moment. All of these bells began with one: the pension was raised to everyone. And what I want to say is that this month's pension raise isn't all about pension reform. Retirement this month is just the first step, and we'll move on. So you don't have to look right where she's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u3	Please, from Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen! A state as an institution created by society to create conditions and conditions in which a person can live qualityly and realize his or her potential. But certainly, a democratic state is not created to protect those who rule the state, it is a despotic state. To create an illusion that we are qualitatively managing a state for people by raising a pension for those who have already had a good pension and leaving from scratch or with a few hundred dollars to raise those who have never had a pension is an illusion. Because it's an illusion that came from non-professionalism and a desire to show what was wanted for what was real. But "fast" in Ukraine is underfunded, the "fast" in high-rise areas can take about an hour and a half. Is it for the sake of quality or is it mere ignorance? Next thing. Indeed, whether reform is the only reform of decentralization that has begun its course in Ukraine. But only two years of this successful reform have resulted in high - quality officials who stop going to Kiev and stop applying for the central government and start using the budget qualitatively from their communities, resisting central authority, despotion, and oligarchs, both political and economic. The political one is the persecution of high-quality mayors, and an example of this is the total gangbuster depreciation and overthrow of Mayor Nikolayev Aleksandar Sjenkiewich in order for the despotion to prevail in this area, where people, more than 50 percent, support this measure, which came with a democratic tool for the use of their funds and showed their work in two years. But there is a powerful economic offensive to local self - government in the 2018 budget. Cities are transferred to functional responsibilities that are not supported by financial resources, and counting from city budgets is so draconian that cities have absolutely no motivation to make money. Today, decentralization reform has shown that the law of Magdeburg is back on the territory of European Ukraine. But today it also shows that depression does not want to retreat and will not retreat. So the mayors and cities need to protect their budgets from a despotic central government just to create quality living conditions for people in the territories, and this is very important, and this fight is still ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u5	From "The Rebirth Party" Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich gives Pisarenko a word for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I have a question to ask you, how often do you get cheated, how often do you get hanged, say not what you want to hear, it's a so-called "cat in a bag"? This is a standard gift that every Ukrainian receives during the elections that take place each time. And I'll tell you that in 26 years, people are tired of getting elected without rules. People want the legal right to choose and vote for those they know and trust. So electoral legislation is no longer just a choice of individuals, it's a requirement of all Ukrainians. Let's not ignore this requirement. So, honourable national MPs, today can be a historic day not only for Parliament but also for all of Ukraine. We have an opportunity and a unique opportunity to start electoral reform. We have the opportunity to say good-bye to an outdated corruption system, once and for all, to introduce transparent, civilized and, above all, effective rules of choice. And we must find political will and vote for the Electoral Code. This is honest and accountable to people. Because we promised everyone. This is the end of the election corruption, this is the end of the wholesale business from selling seats on election lists. This is the end of the election and this is the end of counterfeiting and the possibility of using administrative resources. I don't idealize open lists, they won't change everything one day. But open lists will help to form a healthy electoral system in time. We also urge Parliament to take into account changes in the state budget and the budget code. According to our calculations, only Kharkiv today needs about 2 billion dollars of targeted budget subsidies for the following year. This is a large sum, and the city may simply not bear such a financial burden. And to prevent a budget collapse, we've made appropriate adjustments to the budget. Please take them into account. There are also medical problems. All of our adjustments to improve and support the health of Ukrainians and Harkians have been rejected. In the Cabinet of Ministers, the budget is considered to be honest and realistic. But is it fair to leave without the necessary funding for a sugar - and - non - sugar - based diabetes treatment program? Is it fair to ignore the need for sanitation for children and adolescents with somatic diseases? We ask the Cabinet of Ministers to pay attention to our proposals, which will ensure the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, the next one is the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Leader of the People's Front, factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Chairman, colleagues! The People's Front faction insists on the immediate adoption of Bill 7163 on the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity. A month has passed since our first reading, we have no right to delay consideration of the matter. The People's Front faction claims that we will not allow any delay in the consideration of the bill to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity. Our actions will be hard and clear. This Parliament will adopt the Law on Temporary Occupied Areas, where Russia will finally be recognized as an aggressor. Russia must be held accountable for the crimes it commits on Donbas. We demand that the bill be reviewed as soon as possible at a committee meeting and put it into the hall. We have two plenary weeks, and in the meantime the bill has to be passed in general. Voting for him will finally show who is fighting for Ukrainian interest and who is involved in criminal sabotage and is playing the enemy. At the request of the People's Front, a reference to "ministerial agreements" has been removed from the bill, and this is the principle of the position of the People's Front. The position of the People's Front is clear: we are, for the recognition of Russia as an aggressor, the establishment of Crimea and the ODRLO of the status of the temporarily occupied territories, for placing full responsibility on Russia for everything that's going on in the occupied territories. But there will be no legalization of "ministerial agreements" in legislation. Once this law has been passed, we must take a decision to introduce a visa regime with Russia, an aggressor country. This is an important political precondition for the continuation and expansion of Western sanctions against Russia. We will not deviate from this and will be able to obtain a visa regime with Russia, expand personal sector sanctions, ban double citizenship for civil servants and law enforcement officials, further increase in defence and national security costs, complete state - border engineering, and so forth. Next. Yesterday we registered a draft amending the 2017 budget, which envisions a redistribution of 13 billion dollars to ensure the solution of the most pressing, including social issues. In particular, it's proposed that 7.5 billion dollars be allocated for the funding of the grant program, and this year, I stress, 238 million dollars -- for the treatment of citizens abroad. Today, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there are people who demand funding for the treatment of our children abroad, and we must accept this program. I would like to point out that this increase in expenditure has been made possible by the reforms and economic changes that the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk started three years ago. Next, today the decree to resign the minister of the interior of Arsen Habakkuk stands in the order of the day. This project is another demonstration of a long-standing campaign against the People's Front. The People's Front is sitting across some people's throat after winning the election in 2014, after Yatzenuk became Prime Minister and started making rapid positive changes in the country, with this. These unprecedented rapid transformations in war conditions have given high marks to the leading Western politicians and experts. But this is very annoying, not for those who have done nothing for Ukraine, but for those who are the strongest. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u10	This is displeasing to those who have done nothing for Ukraine. This does not please an enemy who needs a weak, dependent and backward Ukraine. Our team is a strong foundation of Ukraine, our unity is a barrier to balance and collapse. After killing us, Ukraine wants to face the collapse of an endless political crisis, instability, and temporary elections that are scheduled for a rematch of the procremal forces and demagogs. But they will not be able to implement this plan. Today’s vote will show who is behind the changes in the law enforcement system and who is simply working as a Russian mercenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Alexander Wilkul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine, I was just reminded at the entrance to Parliament that today is the century of the October Revolution. And in parallel, people say that not so much has changed. Many beautiful slogans, which are loudly exclaimed by very often by those people, these slogans, and ultra patriotic, and nationalistic, those who were still practicing yesterday, were publicly practicing completely different ideals. A sharp increase in crime is actually a sign of anarchy. The economy is falling both then and now, and the promised bright future, then it was a communist paradise, today -- the same manipulation when we are told that tomorrow there will be Europe and wages of two thousand euros instead of building European standards, European wages, jobs here in our country. There's a war going on, and nobody wants to end it, because they steal it and they raise their own, very small, electronic ratings. There was a movie called "The Man With the Gun." With a rifle as the main argument in any dispute, anywhere. And today, unfortunately, it's happening in every village, every place. I want to go to Parliament: start working for people. Not for yourself, not for the International Monetary Fund, not for narrow-party interests, but even for the instinct of self-preservation to work for people. And the first step should be to restore peace. This is the most important question from Lviv to Luhansk. The second is a reduction in municipal tariffs. We guarantee that after winning the election, we will double the tariffs for gas and heat. One thousand seven thousand dollars worth of Ukrainian gas -- seven thousand people sell it. And there are mechanisms for controlling government prices for food products. The third is the real support of industry, economy and jobs. 8 million people who work abroad today didn't go there because they could make a living here and not because of a good life. Take our laws to support the economy and industry, return the benefits to the agrarians. Today it was meant to be held budget. They moved for a week, but no one heard the Kabmin report or the strategy. What if there is no strategy? Well, it can't be closing schools, hospitals, raising municipal tariffs and continuing war with a strategy. We've made our budget proposals for next year. Because of the growth of the economy, because it's going to cut costs by.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u14	By reducing the cost of a power block, we clearly show how average wages can be raised: minimum wage - 5,000, minimum pension - 3.5. And this is at the expense of the economy and because it doesn't raise three times the funding of the muscle.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u15	Please, the next of the People's will, National Deputy Labazük. Please. By the way, self-preservation will be self-preservation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, Andry Volodymyrovich, the MP's "will of the people" insists that this week Parliament has been actively involved in the budgeting process for the following year, because virtually every new year we enter in a turbulent way. In preparing the project, 2,289 amendments were made to the State budget for the first time. We suggest that we approach them in a sober and pragmatic manner. What do I mean? We can't split the cost of a fraction nearly 2.5 times, that's 1.4 trillion. Where are we going to get so much more income? Our proposals should be based on real projects that will contribute to development and strengthen the reforms that have recently been adopted and already under way. This is particularly true of decentralization reform. And that's where all the factions and groups have to show a consolidated position. To a large extent, the budget for the following year will depend on whether decentralization will continue and whether the achievements of recent years in reforms will be strengthened. Minfin continues to take responsibility and to increase the pressure on local budgets. Aid for individual categories of citizens has been removed from housing-communal subsidies. In a monetary equivalent, it's going to be about 7 billion dollars. A living example. Volocic united territorial community in Hmelničina is one of the most successful in Ukraine. Its budget for the following year will be 120 million dollars. Now a tenth of this money will have to be paid to compensate for the benefits. It's not much, but it's about 10 million dollars that a united territorial community could send to develop its infrastructure. That's a decision we're once again putting communities on stretches. It is also incomprehensible to explain the proposal to increase the percentage of removals from local budgets, a reverse grant, from 50 percent to 80 percent. Isn't it obvious what the result will be? What, then, is the financial decentralization? Colleagues, I would like to stress that it is from us, from Parliament, that people will ask. Not from the Cabinet of Ministers, it's from us. Because we have a decision to make on the budget, we have to vote for it. Because our vote will depend on the state of affairs next year, financial preparation. That's why the MP's "will of the people" group urges all parliamentary factions to approach the 2018 budget without politics. We have to make decisions that will help increase government and local incomes, develop the economy. People have to see the light at the end of the tunnel because they've already waited for us to do this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, who gives the floor to Igor Mósiyczuk, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u18	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear Ukrainian people! The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! I came here today from the hospital to urge all of you to focus not only on the efforts that have taken place with regard to me. And the turmoil that prevails in Ukrainian cities and villages. To urge you to protect every Ukrainian. Because turning on the news, the Ukrainian gets scared: he gets killed, he gets blown up, there's a shootout in the police grenade, there's a shootout between armed citizens. We have to put an end to this. I call on the Ukrainian Parliament as the most effective way to intervene in the country's law enforcement system in order to remedy the protection of every Ukrainian, the protection of Ukrainian citizens. The issue of security is a key issue. Because there's a war going on in the east. And at a time when the war is going on and the best of the best are protecting the country, Russian terrorist gangs, criminal groups, are freely operating in a peaceful territory. And unfortunately, unfortunately, there are too many security forces, border forces, other law enforcement agencies that can't handle them. Parliament is today to extend its arm to Ukraine's law enforcement system. We must learn to live as the State of Israel has since its creation. Because this war is long. And, unfortunately, terrorism has knocked on our windows for a long time. In a brief discussion of the attack on myself, many versions are being considered, many of you know how many unwelcome people I have had. It was I who applied for the illegal enrichment of Sergey Ljovczyn. I was the one who raised the question of an illegal developer in Odessa Kiwan. I'm the one who challenged Kadir. And he got the right answer. I think the investigation will deal with the versions. And our job is to protect the Ukrainians, every Ukrainian. Finally, I would like to ask the Ukrainian Parliament to honor by a moment of silence the memory of my late assistant, Amina Okiwawa, my guardian, my special assignee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u19	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u20	Ruslan Kushner, accidentally killed Lieutenant Colonel Michael Mormill and everyone, the victim of Russian criminal terror in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the fallen heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u21	Thank you. And the closing statement from Fatherland is Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u22	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, this week will not be a week when we can start looking at the draft budget for the 18th year. And I think this is a key topic, because without this topic, we will never approach the issue that is being shaken by the whole world for the second year, all parliaments, including the European Parliament, namely, the issue of tax avoidance through offshore schemes. One of the most powerful countries in the world -- the United States -- is hiding in offshore jurisdictions. Eight trillion euros today is the shadow budget of those who, using offshore jurisdictions, do not want to pay taxes to their own countries, do not want to pay taxes in order to be worthy of wages, pensions in their own countries, and try to do so in dozens of small island nations, where they are effectively avoiding real taxation. Unfortunately, one list includes the first officials of the Ukrainian State, including the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. That's why our faction requires that when considering the 2018 budget, we address issues of offshore jurisdiction. We proposed two bills a year ago that take into account the world practice of paying taxes before this money is exported to offshore. Unfortunately, neither the relevant economic committee nor parliament wants to address this issue, which allows the tens of billions of dollars to be removed from the shadows, not the bracelets, but the tens of billions of dollars that are hidden in offshores today because of various schemes, and that is why the richest people in Ukraine are only at the end of the first hundred taxpayers in Ukraine. This is a question that allows us today to address both the 2018 budget and the next budget. The other one. Our faction insists that a working group be set up immediately with the participation of the government, the profile committee and all parliamentary stakeholders to review the Pensions Act that has just been approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u24	One and a half million pensioners in occupied areas are unable to count their pensions, millions of pensioners do not understand the principle that one pension is counted and the other pension is not counted. We think that this is a question of the security of the state, these questions, we insist that they be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u25	Thank you. So the factions are finished. But we received an application from two groups asking for a recess, which they replace with a statement from the rostrum. And I give the floor to Oleg Kulinich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u26	Oleg Kulinic, MP's Rebirth Group, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I'd like to draw attention to the resonant event that took place on the night of Saturday for Sunday in Poltavska, namely the attempt to raid the agro-firm of Orzické. Two weeks ago, in this business, there was an attempt to change owners on the basis of false documents, but the state registryer then refused to register the company’s participants. Operational activities of the protection authorities of the Poltava region have led to the imposition of an arrest and a ban on registration activities. Then the situation was settled, but it was clear that it would happen again. So I made a personal request to the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko, to take this situation to personal control. Last Saturday, a private notary from Dnieper, contrary to the court's decision to ban registrations, registers new members of the agro-firm Orzicka. On that same day, dozens of sports figures, some armed, tried to bring about the raiding of a company, more than a hundred men. Thanks to the operational and concerted activities of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Poltava Region and the National Police of the Poltava Region, it was possible to stop the traffic. It was the inhabitants of the community that played a major role in protecting the enterprise. Thank God, there were no hurt or unforeseeable consequences. Yesterday the same private notary from Dniepra cancels his registration. And I have a question, how did the notary register when it was banned, and is this the only case with this private notary? So once again, I am addressing the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko, and I ask you to take a closer look at this case and draw the right conclusions. Clearly, we are dealing with a planned scheme of raiding the enterprise. That's why the MP's Rebirth Group is calling on the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to request immediate investigation and to establish the culprits. This incident shows that our country’s agrarian farming is thriving and must be combated. A group of national MPs, together with the government, are already working on a complex, I repeat a complex, anti-residence bill, and we will soon register it. So I want to look both to Parliament's leadership and to the leaders of all the MPs and groups, to the non-fractional MPs, let's unite our efforts, because we need to act very quickly to put an end to the agrarian raid in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u27	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I'm going to give you a brief explanation of the logic of today. So we're starting from the second stage of electoral reform, from election codes, and then we're going to have a whole series of important questions in the second reading that have already accumulated over a few weeks. This is also support for cinematographers, this is the Law, which we discussed a lot at the Conciliation Council yesterday, about strategic environmental assessment. It is also the Child Safety Guarantees Act. These are bills that have a small number of amendments, but they need an immediate solution. We also need to consider today the cluster of human trafficking, the opposition to human trafficking, the three - question bloc, and we are obliged to consider these issues today. So I have asked all the national deputies to work effectively today, and we have a large number of people. In addition, I propose to include in order the daily draft of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2017. You know that today the water is off in our areas of Donetsk, Lugansk, and it's very important that we include this bill in the agenda, we passed the committee on Wednesday, and we could look at it on Thursday. So I urge everyone to work effectively and productively. And now we're moving on to the first issue of the agenda -- this is the draft Ukrainian Electoral Code (3112 and 3112-1). They are large - scale, and therefore the reduced procedure is not foreseen. We will consider them according to the law in full procedure. And first, I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u28	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, good morning! I would like to immediately apologize to the media and the television audience, but my presentation is more for the national MPs, especially for those who signed a coalition agreement that no one has cancelled today. I hope you remember that the reform of electoral legislation was one of the main promises of the Supreme Council coalition. And the establishment of a proportional electoral system was to take place by the end of March 2015. Five parliamentary factions signed under this. But more than two years -- and no progress on the path of electoral reform. There is virtually no movement in Parliament, the Electoral Codex, which is designed by our team. We worked on it for over a year. And this is, without exaggeration, the most serious document that I think has been drafted in this Parliament lately. Above all, he will finally make the elections in Ukraine fair. We can overcome the corruption that the electoral process has overwhelmed with spider webs. We will destroy any possibility of using administrative resources to distort the election results. We will stop the shameful practice of trading in places. places on the list. It's going to be impossible, and it doesn't make any sense. The members of the election committees will no longer be bribed. In Ukraine, each electorate will know his own MP in the face. The names of the candidates who will be assigned to the Supreme Council by one party or another will be determined not by party leadership but by the electorate. The parties will have to seek out for the regions of real authority of social thought and people with an impeccable reputation. There will be no showers in the Supreme Council, and instead of party sponsors, there will be party leaders. And now I'm going to explain to you in detail and step by step, and hopefully you can see the presentation on the screen. So I'm proposing a proportional election system with open lists. This will enable us to combat political corruption, manipulation, and abuse. There will be real competition between political parties. People will finally be able to choose quality, not quantity. The other one. Political parties are the subjects of the nomination of candidates without the possibility of uniting them into blocs. Third. By our system, the only state-wide constituency includes the entire territory of Ukraine and the foreign constituency and is divided into 450 relative to the number of electorate constituencies. Four. Then it's very simple. Each political party has the right to nominate one candidate per candidate in each of the constituencies. Fifth. Accordingly, each of the constituencies will have their own ballot. The newsletter will be extremely clear and simple, very similar to the majority. Six. Yes, MPs are the highest ranking candidates from political parties that have overcome the barrier. There are no universal recipes on the electoral barrier. There are countries where there is a 1 percent threshold, and there are 10 percent, that's the topic for discussion. Next, seventh. The election results are determined by the Central Election Commission in four steps. First, the CEC sets out the total number of voters who have received candidates from each political party. Then, within each party, a personal rating is set for each of its candidates, depending on the number of votes received in the district. Only at this point do the numbers appear in the ballots, but as you can see, they are determined only by the voter. I mean, you can't buy a number on the election party list anymore. And at the end of the day, we define an all-Ukrainian rating of the candidates from all parties, that's such a total benchmark for all. Ten. I'm often asked to explain how this rating is calculated by the U.S. That's actually the essence of the proposed electoral system, I'm telling you, the first candidate in the internal party list gets all the votes that his party got. Each candidate within the party gets a portion of the vote, which is determined by dividing the total number of votes of the political party by its rating number, i.e. the number on the party list. For convenience, it's going to be a simple formula where all the votes of the party will be divided by the personal rating number of the candidate and his all-Ukrainian rating. Next, the CVA creates a general list of candidates, depending on the country's overall rating rates, from higher to lower. Thus, the people’s deputies become the first 450 candidates of all parties. It is clear that in the event of a candidate’s departure or the subsequent termination of the parliamentary mandate, Parliament’s encampment depends on the support of the candidates and the party that put it forward. In short, the suggestions are ours. We dissipate all parties that have failed to overcome the barrier. We define an internal party rating for all candidates. We set them up in an all-U.S. position, and we define 450 winners, which will become national MPs. Why our system has the right to life, and we think it is optimal for the country. First, it ensures the simplicity of perception by the electorate, as in fact, and the simplicity of voting: one check in one box for one candidate from the same party. Secondly, there will be no vacancy in Parliament and there will be no need to hold interim elections, because there will always be a nationwide electoral list to draw up new candidates. Third, the voter's voice will be given directly for the individual candidate, not for the cat in the bag. This is exactly what the Venice Commission recommended to us. Next. District election committees will be made up of professionally trained specialists. Next. Parliament will be fully formed, even considering that part of Ukraine is temporarily occupied. Another of the most important advantages of the Codex is that no voter’s voice is lost because, unlike the majorist system, the party that has overcome the barrier selects everything to the last, loyal candidate, vote. This is also important. Candidates from one party won't play against each other. That many may not like it, but we destroy the phenomenon of leadership and eliminate the possibility of dictated party leaders. And then the parties become more democratic. The leader of the party, as the first of the equals, is also in one of the constituencies and continues to confirm his authority and ability to bring the maximum number of votes to the party that has elected him as its leader. And finally, the two main advantages of the code are the absence of corruption. There is no numbering on the party lists, there is nothing to buy. Everyone gets what they deserve in the election. The other one. This is a lack of ability to put up technical candidates, because in this case it's not possible to put up real ones in this district. In addition, without the support of the electorate, any technical candidate would only cause significant damage to the party's overall rating. Thus, honourable colleagues, the Electoral Codex once and for all, will introduce steel and transparent rules in the election. And while there is no "once and for all" in Ukraine, the adoption of unified electoral legislation will help to prevent different interpretations of electoral laws during any electoral campaign. I would like to point out that we have united the election in the codex, of course, all of us. What's happening in Ukraine is the President's election, and the local self-government elections, and the parliamentary elections. We've harmonized a lot of rules and made a professional selection of candidates for election committees, so no one else who comes to power is going to be able to change the rules of the game like this. And the main thing. Let's leave romantic dreams of what is possible to preserve an existing electoral system. We need to improve it, we need to make the Electoral Code so that we can see a normal party and electoral system in Ukraine in 10-20 years. Recent local elections have demonstrated that they, the elections in Ukraine today are not ideal, and the electoral system today needs improvement. Therefore, the Electoral Code is to be voted on today. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u29	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u30	I have another offer for you. If. If we don't find a vote for any of the election codes today, I suggest we send them both to the Venice Commission to get their recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u31	Thank you. I'll call you back. Three minutes, on the question. Please record the question to the reporter. Marchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u33	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, President Poshenko’s promise, which was part of his electoral agenda, and the coalition agreement, which was a deadline in the first quarter of 2015, should finally be fulfilled. And of course, the Supreme Council must finally fulfill the commitments it has made to the Ukrainian people and finally adopt new electoral rules. By this particular election code, I have a question for the rapporteur. In general, your system understands what you are proposing. It has some logic, but there is one great danger. Is it not because of the fact that the distribution of mandates takes place throughout Ukraine, will we not actually have the regionalization of politics, the regionalization of political parties, because those areas where a party has more support, all the deputies will be from these areas alone? Whether it is more appropriate to make the distribution in each area separately, there will be no distribution at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u34	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u35	There's a party in some area that's got three mandates. If, in general, Ukraine has passed the barrier. Because if there's a division of mandates across Ukraine, there's a risk of regionalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u36	Thank you, Andrew, for asking. You know, in my opinion, we don't have that kind of risk. On the contrary, we allow those parties that have substantial support in different regions, but perhaps they do not have support throughout Ukraine, to enter parliament if they overcome the Ukrainian barrier. This is true of many parties that today show substantial support in one region or another. Let us not forget that Ukraine is quite different, and we have different political and mental views in different parts of the country. That is why we need to ensure the representation of deputies from all parts of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Popov Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u38	Dear Valery Volodymyrovich, in fact, in your electoral system, there are a number of positive positions in your code, they're taking away some of the problems that we see in the elections right now. However, our faction cannot support him. Because we think it's too small a step from a completely top-notch system to open lists. A radical party, on the other hand, requires a system of open lists that is closer to a proportional system. But we welcome your willingness to compromise, to dialogue. Because we understand that you are also elected to the Majority District and you represent a parliamentary group that consists of MPs elected to the Majority Districts. The question is whether you are ready for further parliamentary dialogue. And what do you think this dialogue should be if none of the bills today are supported? And besides sending it to the Venice Commission, do you see a perspective in this dialogue between representatives of groups, factions to find further compromise and to change the electoral system anyway?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Igor, thank you for your comment. I think you're one of the biggest professionals in election issues in Parliament. So I'm convinced that we need to keep working on these issues. Of course, each codex has its own advantages and disadvantages. I am convinced that we need to stop and work on one of the projects so that the election code can appear. I respect my colleagues who have developed another codex. But I think it's too difficult to transform it and what the country needs today. And the election lists, and the next step from what I've proposed today is to go back to a proportional system where you can't know your candidate, and the party leaders, the leaders, will run on the lists of whoever they want. Once again, there will be secretaries, drivers, and so forth, who will simply act as a buttoner.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u40	Thank you. So the time for questions has come to an end. Thank you, Mr. Valérie. There's time, there's no questions. It's a complete procedure. It's going to be an opportunity for everyone. No, where's that written, three questions? It's written, three minutes. Thus, the report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice’s subcommittee, Czernenko Alexander Mikolayovich. First as a co-author, then as a committee. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u41	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to bring to your attention the draft alternative Electoral Code No. 3112-1, which was registered in this call of the Supreme Council by authors Andri Parubius, Leonid Yemeni and Alexander Chernenko. This project is not new, it is developed on the basis of the draft Electoral Code, which in 2010, a group of deputies led by Yuri Bogdanović Klukkowski registered in the past call. The project was then being worked on by a working group to support the OSCE. The working group focused on Ukraine's best electoral law professionals, both politicians, MPs and public experts, members of the Central Electoral Commission, and they worked on this code for about a year. He was registered in the past, in the past calling, but unfortunately he was not supported. I will also point out that he had already received a positive conclusion from the Venice Commission at the time. Now before the registration, we've somehow updated it, drawn conclusions from those electoral processes that took place during the 10th to 15th years, and after leaving that conceptual version of the 10th year, we've certainly made a number of innovations. The draft Electoral Code does not unite the five existing laws to date: the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies, the Law on Local Elections, the Presidential Elections, the Law on the Central Election Commission, and the Single State Register of Voters. Here we have gathered all of them under the same coat with the aim of unifying procedures, voting, forming a commission, and lists of voters. They are virtually identical to the different types of elections, and the choices themselves differ only from the election system. Yes, in the parliamentary elections we propose a system of regional open lists. This is the system that Victor Chumak reported in his Bill 1068-2, literally last plenary week. This is when Ukraine divides into 27 constituencies, in each of these regions of the party, the voter is definitely voting for one of these parties and, as desired, it is his good will, for one of the candidates whom the party has put out in this region, on this regional list, thus rating these candidates. And that's what my colleague Pisarenko said when the leader of the party can't influence the candidate's position on the list, the chances of his passing, and that's what the electorate is doing. A four - percent election barrier is proposed in the draft code, that is, those political parties that have exceeded 4 percent of the vote are allowed to distribute their mandates. We've adopted, and as in previous electoral processes, the blocs, the candidates can only be nominated by political parties, and Ukraine has already moved on and is working with it normally. Accordingly, I won't tell for long, but the principle of open lists is similar to that of Polish, and the Baltic model is proposed in the draft of this code, in the section "Parliamentary Elections". In the section "The City Elections" in elections to rural, rural, district, city and city councils of small cities (up to 90,000 voters) there is a major system, but also a multi-mandatory majority system. It's when not one candidate wins in the county as it is today, but between two and four candidates, depending on the number of voters in the district. This will remove the sharpness of the political struggle, and then the fight of violations and abuses in the elections, when the winner in the district is not one, but two or three, or four, respectively, will not be such a high stake, will not be such a high price question, and the election will go through more calmly. With regard to elections to district councils and city councils of large cities, large cities are from 90,000 voters, they are all district centers and a host of other cities. A system of open lists is proposed, similar to the one proposed in the parliamentary section. It's an appropriate area or a large city divided into large districts, and in each of these districts, the party lists, and the electorate scores them according to the pattern that I just talked about when I talked about the parliamentary elections. Similarly, the election of city heads of large cities of 90,000 voters proposes a two-way electoral system in the election of city heads, in principle, is the same as the existing law on local elections. We did this in 2015, and in principle, she justified herself, so the two-way system in the election of the city heads remains. Next, the presidential election. There are no special novelties, there are novices about the promotion of candidates, i.e. the candidate has the right to live in Ukraine for at least ten years. And the traditional procedure for collecting citizens' signatures to support the President's candidates is proposed to replace the signatures of those with a representative mandate. That is, to be a candidate for the Presidents, it takes at least 300 signatures, but not just citizens, but deputies of the Supreme Council, deputies of local councils, and at least two thirds of the regions of Ukraine. So that's how we clean up these fakes and signatures of citizens. Similarly to electoral issues, this bill deals with the issue of pre-election agitation, i.e. the division of voter information and what agitation is. It is proposed that members of electoral committees be trained and that only those with the appropriate certificate and local and parliamentary elections, when a national list is formed, have gender quotas. That is, there should be at least two opposite sexes in each five of the national lists. That is, in every five or three men, two women, or three women, two men, or gender quotas, that are also in line with all the recommendations. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u42	Can you think of anything you've reported from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u43	I haven't reported it yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u44	Then 30 seconds, report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u45	In principle, as in the electoral bill, as the committee suggested that the Supreme Council should decide how to vote on both codes. And the one who reported it to my colleague, and the one who reported it to me. Since revolutionary changes are being proposed, the Supreme Council, in fact, has to make a political decision, determined by a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u46	Thank you. Please record the question. Anyone who wants to ask a question, please hold the record. Anointed Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u47	Andrey Pomazanov, faction of the People's Front, please pass on the word to Leonid Hamc.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u48	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. I have a question for the reporter, a question just from the political plane. What do you think is the responsibility of the national MPs who are elected to Parliament, promising in their pre-election programmes or political power, or whether a candidate of self-governance should do one thing, such as enacting the Law on Open Election Lists, and then refusing to do what is promised by coming to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u49	A very simple answer must be political responsibility for political decisions. You promised, you failed, you went to the next election, and the voter gave you an evaluation. Regrettably, there is no other responsibility for Ukrainian legislation. I mean, it is in the whole world, promised, failed, went to the electorate again, and let him appreciate your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u51	Alexander Mikolaiovich, that's a question. I spent two weeks in the district, talking to my constituents. Ask questions about how to change the election system. And the key question of my constituents is this. Here we have a small area of Volinska, now five majors, 100 percent of the system that has, well, lists. People worry that at certain times, as it is in the local elections now, the Volin region, the territories may not have their own representatives. Well, let's say some parties are popular, but they don't raise 4 percent, they don't. Or you take enough, but less than in other regions and so on. So is there any safeguards in this law for each area to be represented by at least a certain number of national MPs independent of the passing of one or more parties? It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u52	Thank you. Your fears are absolutely unfounded. The system that is proposed in the draft code is not the one that was in the last local elections and that is active, which really predicted the possibility of a district where there is no representative. Today, each area will be represented in Parliament and not by one candidate, not by one MP, but by five senior officials, as in your case, the Volin region, but much more. So in each area, there are a few parties, at least they get mandates, and in each of these parties, there are several mandates. I am. Well, depending on the results of the election. But I'm going to say that even if in Volin district three, four parties take part in the distribution of mandates, it's going to be three to four deputies from each party, well, twenty-four. So there will be more than ten deputies from different parties that will represent your region in the higher legislature according to the electoral system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u53	Thank you. And the last question is, there is still time, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u54	Victoria the Birdman, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u55	Thank you. My question will be about political advertising, particularly television advertising. Because you probably know that as soon as political competitions begin, television broadcasters have political powers that associate with the owners of appropriate television channels. And accordingly, those political parties that don't list their representatives, actually, those owners of television channels, they don't get air time or get it completely different. How do you plan to solve this problem, and are you prepared, if you don't limit political advertising, to provide substantial restrictions on political advertising on television channels to get people to know real candidates, real programs, and not to watch political videos for 15 seconds that are fairly manipulative?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u56	I totally agree. See, this draft of the Electoral Code is the best of all existing laws and projects, I say with full responsibility, regulating this system. But I agree with you, he regulates it not enough. We're also dividing the information from the agitation. We impose very serious sanctions and responsibility on the media that violates this process. But I agree with you, that's not enough, so I was the author of similar bills and I'm willing to improve this election code if it's adopted with regard to the serious limitation of political advertising. Let's be realistic, we won't be able to make a complete ban today, but strict regulation, strict requirements for this advertisement, it's all possible to do it, proper work is. But again, it's very well prescribed in this code, but there's something to improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u57	Thank you. Question time is up, and now we're moving on to the next chapter -- statements from factions. So I'm asking those factions who want to participate in the discussion to record. Please. Please, Burbak gives the floor to the co-author of the progressive Leonid Hamc Bill. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u58	Thank you. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, it is not really a question of whether we should adopt the Law on Open Election Lists or not. Because all the political forces represented in this Parliament with more than 300 votes of the constitutional majority, in their programming principles, going to this Parliament, promised the Ukrainian people that what they would do in this Parliament would include voting for open electoral lists. Today, the question is whether to do what is promised to the Ukrainian people or to fool them by not voting for the Law on Open Election Lists. Therefore, the answer will be given very quickly and each Ukrainian citizen will have the opportunity to see for himself who and how he fulfills his promises. In fact, the bill that we have proposed with the Head of Parliament and Alexander Chernenko is fully in line with the requirements of the electoral open lists, cleaning up those elements that are today negative in electoral legislation, namely: the possibility of buying votes from a majority office through Greece, through benches, through the road; or cleaning up the possibility of buying seats in parliament through an agreement with the political authorities to buy a seat on a closed party list. In fact, the demand of the Ukrainian people was to participate directly in determining which candidate should be the winner of the political power. And that is what we are proposing today in our Law on Open Election Lists. So, honourable fellow national MPs, you promised the Ukrainian people an opportunity to choose by their own vote who should be represented in the Ukrainian Parliament. You now have the opportunity to demonstrate how responsible you are for the promises you made in the election programs. Therefore, the bill we have drafted, the bill fully meets the requirements of open electoral lists, the bill introduced to Parliament, passed through the committee, received support and is now being proposed to Parliament for identification. Today, when every Ukrainian citizen sees how much national MPs are responsible for their duties, and the Ukrainian State finally has the opportunity to get a system of open electoral lists that will make a qualitative change in the way that we form and work the next parliament, when we do not have a semi-empty room, when we have no MPs who will say that they have no relation to our obligations, because we have already counted with the electorate in the electoral process, and there will be a stable majority in Parliament -- 400 of the people's deputies who will vote in favour of the laws required by our state, and we will not be too eager to force national deputies before their duties. I propose this beautiful picture of the future perspective of the Ukrainian Parliament now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u59	Thank you. I remind you that there are statements from factions where we ask to express the position of our political groups and factions on the codes under discussion. Then there will be speeches by the national deputies. Now, please, from Self-Help, the People's Deputy of Semimenach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u60	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. First of all, I want to address our Ukrainian citizens. Three years ago, the five political powers signed that we should reform the political system and give our Ukrainian citizens the opportunity to choose not only political forces but also those who represent their interests in Parliament. Now it's going to be that historic moment where we can do this. We promised this to Ukrainian citizens. We promised it at the Council of Europe. Perhaps the time has come for us to keep our promises. So I ask all Ukrainian citizens to follow up on who is going to vote now, to support one law or another, and to what extent it will be consistent in its steps, and how they will comply with its promises. Next. I'd like to address the majors who are present in this session room. Dear colleagues, I don't understand you! Why don't you support this bill? You should be the first to stand up, those majors who are not Greeks, and who care for people in your district, you will get the most support from your electorate. And finally, I want to reach out to our citizens. Imperfection of the judicial system, corruption in energy, corruption in other spheres, all of this is the result of an imperfect, corrupt, kleptotric political system. Without changing the electoral system, we will not be able to break history. Only by changing electoral legislation, by changing the rules that people will become national deputies will we get a chance to change our country in 5 and 10 years to get the quality of life that each of us deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, from the "Fatherland" faction, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u62	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What is the main task of the Ukrainian Parliament, which should adopt laws? I want these laws to work. If we are talking about the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, which is called upon to carry out a key task -- to enable the Ukrainian people to form an active and working parliament without political corruption, which will be formed without Greek in elections that will be formed without bribes, which will be formed without the purchase of districts. Such an electoral system must be formed by this Parliament, which will ensure the real will of the Ukrainian people. The Fatherland faction believes that the majority of elections have been completely discredited, and the majority of them have led to the absolute deformity of the Ukrainian people's choice in Parliament. It's deformed because it allows for administrative resources, a variety of influences to form non-natural alliances, which then do not represent the choice that people have expressed in voting. That's why the Fatherland faction at its meeting decided that we would vote in favour of those bills that exclude the majority component and establish proportional elections in Ukraine. The bill that we're discussing right now is called on to form a model like this. This is a model of a proportional electoral system with open lists. Whether he is perfect, no, he is not perfect. Because in the local elections, we've already eaten a so-called quasi-proportional system with open lists, which, as a result, has become even worse than a majorist. That's why we think that really, there has to be such a proportional system that's going to be able to really elect those candidates as deputies and have the influence of the Ukrainian people. At the same time, so that the political parties can determine very clearly at their assemblies the list of candidates for the Supreme Council. The Fatherland faction will vote first in favour of this bill, which was presented by the national deputy of Chernenko. And we believe that it should be taken as a basis for continuing to work on the second reading. Let's finally make a promise that all the political forces that went to the polls have given the Ukrainian people about what will be amended by the Election Act and the majority element that only produces in places of corruption will be thrown out. So let us vote in the first reading. And to prepare a quality bill for second reading, so that really, the choice of the Ukrainian people in the elections will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Valery Pisarenko from Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I want to say it again. I think no one has any doubt that the Electoral Code should be adopted. This will allow us today to unify all the electoral laws. This will allow us to deceive all the rules that will further regulate elections in Ukraine. We can finally clean up the problems everyone's talking about. You can see that after the adoption of the last Law on Elections in Local Self-Government, we've had a collapse. We need to fight this urgently. After all, today the electorate, voting for a candidate, even if he has obtained more votes than the other, does not receive a representative in power. In the end, there's a system in place where a minority chooses a representative, and most people don't get one. Then we have the President's election in turn. What, there is no need to improve legislation? Then we have parliamentary elections after the presidential election. We have a lot of questions that we need to come up with. And if we start doing electoral legislation today, maybe in a few months we'll actually get to the new electoral code. So today we need to choose one of the Electoral Codex to vote on it in the first reading. I want to say it again. If there are no votes for any of them, let's trust the experts of the Venice Commission and ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to send both codes to the conclusion of the Venice Commission. We'll see what the experts of the Venice Commission are recommending. I also want to point out that the code that was developed by our team is today optimal for making changes on its own and for coming to a normal electoral system, balancing all problems, solving them, and coming to normal electoral legislation. Let's not be idealists. Each authority before the election will look at its ratings, at the situation in the country, at the election rules and change the rules below. Hence, all interested in a weak electoral system. And only the people who chose us here are interested in making the electoral system strong and not allowing the minority to get their candidates, but most of them to wait for the next election. We therefore vote in favour of an honest electoral system, and on this basis we will develop a new electoral code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ruslan Knyazevich will be speaking from the site. I'm asking my colleague, the people's deputy Dubnevic, to sit down, in particular, please, we don't see Knyazevitch. Colleagues! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u66	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Respectful colleagues, frankly, listened to all the speakers and realized that the vast majority of them did not even read election codes. And I don't think the national MPs sitting in the room are familiar with the content right now. Because it's not about the election of the National Deputies, or, more specifically, it's about the election of the People's Deputies by about a percentage of 10. And if you read these electorate codes, you would understand that election codes are actually a compilation of all electoral legislation and an attempt to rewrite it. But since these are election codes, we understand that this is not today's work, it's a work that's owned by other authors, it's just in the current composition of Parliament that it's been transferred. So they were written in 2007, in 2008 on the basis of another constitutional basis and on the basis of other electoral legislation. In 10 years, we've gone a long way. Now, if we're going to look at these codes and adopt them, we're going back to the ten-year past. What are you talking about? First of all, my friends, after the election of the national deputies, I don't want to stop, the national MPs who care about it and talk about it. But it's actually changing the presidential election model, so imagine, less than a year before the election, we're starting a new model and we need to implement it literally starting in a few months. Moreover, the concept of actually professional electoral committees is introduced, and in order to become a member of a commission, not sufficiently of party or candidate lifters, it is necessary for these people to receive appropriate training in colleges, which will determine the Central Election Commission and receive special licenses. Think about it. In the President's election, we have signed letters that we refused long ago. We remember these tons of thrashes that were brought about and proved to be the result. The election administration system is changing at all, and the regional, territorial basis is everything. The model of local elections is completely copied. Now in the process of local elections, we have some elections of united territorial communities, now we're in the process of other elections, and we actually have to stop it, because the members of the commission can't work and move on to a different model, think of it as a completely different model than what's going on right now. Next, we eliminate, think about, the Central Election Commission Act. There is no such law. We want to re-form the commission, and it won't be based on what, there'll be no reason to re-form it. In general, the concept of "CTC" is eliminated at the legislative level. And last of all, just in time. We're destroying the valid drafting of the Election Register Act, and we're going back to its original model, which was 15 years ago. Guys, we're gonna be the laughingstock of everyone in the world. These are the works that need to be, let's say, the basis for further work on electoral legislation. But this cannot be the basis for us to accept it now, not in time to return 10 years ago, we need to move forward and improve electoral legislation to better European standards. We should thank the authors, but we should involve them in further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Igor Popov, a prominent expert in electoral law. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, today’s electoral system for elections to the Supreme Council does not suit the interests of society. Unfortunately, if they make new elections, they will contribute to corruption both during the electoral process and then after the new composition of the Supreme Council has been won. And the recent elections to the united territorial communities only confirmed this trend, the further the bribe of Greek and administrative resources was from Kiev. And in our power to hold at least elections to the Supreme Council, reducing these key problems of today's Ukrainian elections. Of course, I understand the arguments that came out of this rostrum about the fact that a proportional electoral system is tearing the constituency away from the electorate, and we agree with that. Even now, there's a mechanism for for fortifying deputies in territories, districts, districts and in the Radical Party, and we in fact have very clear, strict control over the work of our deputies in the territories and we urge everyone to do the same, but we have to do it systematically. And that is why the model of open lists to Parliament, on the one hand, will introduce the responsibility of a particular MP to the specific electorate in this area, and we should speak directly to our electorate. On the other hand, the model of open lists will confirm the political responsibility of political parties. To make it clear who in the country is responsible for what is happening, who is in opposition, who offers alternative solutions? And who, if the authorities fail, will become the next authority in the next election. We see that the biggest support of experts is the open list system that was discussed last plenary week, registered in No. 1068-2. Unfortunately, she did not get enough support at the time, although the faction of the Radical Party voted in favour of this electoral system. I can predict that it should be the basis for further discussion, because it is the most modern and it meets the needs of society today. I don't think we're going to be able to draw electoral codes in general, especially given that we've made huge reforms in the area of decentralization, and we need the Electoral Code to take into account the election situation in the united territorial communities. The disposal of the district councils, to which we will soon approach in our activities. I'm sure we should continue the work of the working group at the interfractional level in order to hold a dialogue if none of the bills are accepted as a basis. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, who, during the last year, personally led the work group, moderated the dialogue personally and with much, thanks to his personal efforts today, we are talking about these important issues from this rostrum. I call on everyone to vote in favour of open lists of elections to Parliament, so that we can make a better parliament the next call.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Wilkul's Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u70	Dear people of Ukraine! Last week, we discussed five bills on the electoral system. We voted in favour on all the bills. We believe that the best and most compromising bill was the bill of our colleague Miroshnick. But none of these five bills received the required number of votes, 226. Despite the new proportional system with open lists, it was the promise of all parties to the elections. This is signed even in a coalition agreement, in a coalition where we don't participate. And now, in order to continue falsifying the elections, the authorities don't want to change the system. That system that exists today is not in the interests of the Ukrainians, and the whole world is laughing at the Greeks that we're handing out, the whole world is laughing at the bribe of voters, the money that's on the voter. I want to say that the existing system is the preservation of today, it's the preservation of poverty, it's the preservation of war, it's the preservation of the worst that exists in our policies. Who wants to go five more years and five more years to abuse the country, just the one behind the system. Today, two electoral codes will be considered. Yes, I believe that none of them are perfect. None. Each of them will have to work on a second reading. But we're consistent, we're going to vote, despite the authorship, both for the first and for the second codes, because we need to change the system. If we want to change the country, if we want to live in a normal country, at least get a chance to do that, we need to change the electoral system and get away from the bribe, get away from the administrative resources, and get away from the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, the factions are over. Now, 10 minutes is from the National Deputies, two minutes from now. Of the national deputies who wish to speak, please prepare for the recording and please sign up. People's deputies' performances are 10 minutes, 2 minutes. This is essentially five deputies that can speak. Kobsev Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian people who listen to the consideration of an extremely important matter -- change in electoral legislation. Guys, let's face it, there's as much authority in the party today as our country can't stand. Today the parties have the right to issue, to withdraw the mandate in parliament, and today the parties have 50 percent of the lists. But as an example of the elections to the united territorial community that took place in Hmelničina, particularly in my district of two OTGs, we see that people are voting in favour of one party, a representative of another. Today, unfortunately, there is no political culture in Ukraine, when parties can take responsibility for their candidate, after all, for its actions. We know today that when from different parties, cannon parties come to power of MPs and because of their activities it's not just embarrassing, it's just the criminality of clean water and the party can't, unfortunately, take responsibility and be baptized by such deputies. So today is a different way than leaving the system that we have today -- a change when people have a majority representative from their district, and at the same time the party is preparing for Ukraine's future, when the party becomes a real tool of democracy, today, unfortunately, it's not. That's why I'm personally holding on to both concepts, for both codes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u74	Miroshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u75	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. I would like to remind now, first of all, those citizens who are watching the meetings of the Supreme Council, the fact that we, in fact, as part of a working group that was represented by all the factions of the Supreme Council, have been working for a long time to solve the main challenge facing the Ukrainian electoral system: how do we ensure fair representation of both the political forces and the territorial communities in the Ukrainian Parliament. What electoral system can combine the advantages of a major and proportional system? And all of us unanimously, regardless of the drafts that were presented, which were discussed last week, which are being considered today, have concluded that the optimal for Ukraine, for the historic stage in which our country is located, is a proportional electoral system with open regional lists. That is why in various variations this idea was presented by the drafters. Unfortunately, most of us didn't get together last week, but now we have a chance. And these two bills that actually propose to the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukrainian society to codify electoral legislation. What is a codex? This is the document that unifies the election rules, starting with the presidential elections, ending with local territorial self-government, and of course this is the election to the Supreme Council. Of course, this is a serious challenge. And codify in this fire mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u77	But, dear fellows, if we're here with you now, in the hall, we don't vote, in fact, those challenges that we all face will remain in the air. I urge you all to vote for these bills. Personally, I believe that a more perfect bill is a bill signed by the speaker and prepared by a group of experts led by Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. You must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u78	Yes, the fisherman Sergei of. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u79	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians! The question of the electoral system is so important that, look, our colleagues Zhivago and Homutinnik even appeared in the hall. Why did they appear in this room? Because obviously, like most of you, they want to change the country. Now we're standing with Constantine Zhivago, and I'm telling him that I met with Prime Minister Groissman yesterday and we agreed that 15 percent of the increase in railway tariffs would go to buy Ukrainian metal in our metallurgy and then make Ukrainian electricity instead of imported electricity to Ukraine. So the real fight against corruption is not about jumping tops, anti-corruption courts or anything else, it's about overcoming poverty, creating new jobs. More work, more pay! In order for both Zhewago and Homutinnik and Ahmatova and Colomoyski enterprises in Ukraine to receive a decent salary to give cheap loans, to sell Ukrainian production abroad, so that Ukrainian and non-import products can be purchased for budget money. And that's why we don't lobby for interests, whether Xhivago or anyone else, we lobby for Ukrainian interests. We want Ukrainian people working in our Ukrainian businesses to earn a decent wage and feed their families. That's why we're breaking the law here, and I'm calling on everyone to uphold our law. Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians to have a decent job, pay taxes on local budgets. This is the real fight against corruption. Everything else is a lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u80	Lechenko gives the floor to Andrew Illenck. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u81	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, today is one of the days when there is an examination of political responsibility in the Ukrainian Parliament. Because I would like to remind you that the requirement to change the electoral system, to change the rules under which power is formed in Ukraine, to introduce a proportional system on open lists was a requirement for a presidential presidential election program. This was a requirement recorded in a coalition agreement supported by the constitutional majority of deputies, more than 300 people, signing a coalition agreement where this point was at hand, and it was even a deadline: the first quarter of 2015 was to be done. The year 2017 is not yet over. And now Parliament has the opportunity to remedy this situation, even though it would have taken the first step by voting for appropriate electoral changes in the first reading. These election codes are imperfect. There are a lot of observations, especially with us "liberators," we will have to participate in preparing for the second reading. This system, each of them has its own pluses and minuses, and our job is to find the optimal one. But we have to do this because if we don't change the rules that make Parliament, that shape power in the country, we don't get a new quality of power. This is a very important reform that needs to be done. Plus, there's one important moment to remember. Moreover, how voices are formed, and so on, which is also very important, should be remembered for political advertising, for paid political advertising, for very often the elections in Ukraine are turned into a competition of oligarchs’ wallets. Only a ban on paid political advertising, only if the election is a competition of programs, ideas, personalities, and not the wallets of the oligarchs will it be possible to obtain a truly quality pro-Ukrainian parliament that will work for the benefit of the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u82	Thank you. And a closing statement. Osuhovsky gives the word Victor Chumak. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u83	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, major city of Kiev, Dniprovsky district I want to go to all the millionaires, the billionaires who are sitting in this room that are outside of it. Recently, in his report, one of the richest people in the world, Bill Gates, said these very interesting words: "In 2035, there will not be virtually no poor countries left, but there will be some countries that will be excluded, and they will remain poor." By the way, of these seven countries, which Bill Gates has mentioned, Ukraine has unfortunately fallen on this list. And you know why she fell? He made it very clear that poverty is not a problem of bad education; poverty is not a poor health system. The problem of poverty is the failed political system or the poor political system. This is the foundation of poverty. You can't talk about pensions, wages, tariffs, anything like that when there's a political system that's completely draining the country. In 26 years, you and I have built a kleptotric oligarchic system based on oligarchic property, on oligarchic parties, which in principle, and in the majority system, which in principle allows us to always hold power in a trade of oligarchic clans. I want to tell you that the requirements for changing the electoral system as the basis of the country's political system were fundamental to the requirements of Maidan. You all made a promise to change this election system to an open list system. Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko wrote in his Live New program that he would do anything to make it a new election system with open lists. Please keep your promises. People here, they're not against you, they're against you, they're against you, so you can keep your promises with the President. Do so, change the electoral system, and vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u84	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So I want to let you know that the voting system will be the same as the last time. First, I will put to the vote a draft of the Electoral Code 3112 by Pisarenko, who reported, Pisarenko. Then I'll put to the vote the second draft of Law 3112-1 of the authorship of Paris, Chernenka, Yemen. Please identify all factions as to voting. We had a very long and very systematic discussion last year, and seven working meetings were held, as the reporters pointed out, thank them, under my headship. I want to thank all the members of the working group who participated: both Sidorovich, and Popov, and Germany, and Chumaku, and Pisarenko, and Chernenko, who did a very large work. I want to thank all the experts, and Klukkowski, first of all, who participated in this work. And I want to thank Michael Papiev for his active work. Indeed, to all the members of the working group. To the Merchant Yuri, who was very active in the work. Now we have the opportunity to make a decision. So let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the draft Ukrainian Electoral Code (No. 3112), which was reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. Whoever supports this project, please vote. [[11:44:35]] For 1052 The decision is not made. And now I'm putting to the vote the draft Ukrainian Electoral Code (No. 3112-1). Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:45:07]] For 226 Decision taken. Draft Ukrainian Electoral Code 3112-1 was adopted in the first reading. Colleagues, we have the following draft law: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Local Elections Act to regulate the decision of the parties to participate in the relevant local elections (4843). And I continue to work for 15 minutes, until 12:15 p.m. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. Please support the reduced procedure. [[11:46:02]] For a hundred and Colleagues, not all of them were oriented. Mr. Sergey! Mr. Sergey Sobolev, support the reduced procedure, it's a bill! My colleagues, once again, I ask you to look for me, it's a simple bill supported by all the factions. I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. 11:46:37 a.m. For 190 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sobolev Sergio Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, your point is to amend the Local Elections Act, which stipulates that if there is an out-of-court local election, the procedure for the nomination and approval of candidates remains the same, and the decision-making procedure is cancelled directly by the parties. What are we talking about? In the event that local elections are announced in connection with community reunification, and these elections, for example, will take place as literally on December 24, only in 53 communities, there is no need to hold meetings of all - Ukrainian parties in order to approve the decision that the party is taking part in the election. It's the distraction of power, the cost, the possibility of agitation. Instead, it is proposed that the decisions be approved by the relevant central authorities of local organizations. This will allow decisions to be made very quickly and expeditiously, without making any decisions or calling individual parties. This project was supported by all the factions of Parliament in order to simplify the procedure, I would stress, only for out-of-court elections. If general local elections go, the same procedure remains. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u86	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a unifying, very simple law that is supported by all factions. Please, very briefly from the Czernenko Committee. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice at its meeting on November 16th, considered the bill. In fact, you've heard its essence, there's no political stuff here, it just simplifies life to all political parties in various choices. The committee therefore recommends that the bill be based on it. And I would caution here that we don't rush to vote in general, because there are some technical changes that need to be made to the second reading. Thank you. And on the basis of that, you can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u88	The committee's decision is solely on the basis and therefore on the basis of a different vote and cannot be in the room. Colleagues, everyone knows. Can we vote? We can. Colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to support me. Colleagues, I would like to support you, and I would only like to base, as suggested by the committee, on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections to regulate the decision-making procedure of the party on the participation of its local organizations in the relevant local elections (No. 4843). Please support, just on the basis of, colleagues, everyone supports factions. Please vote in favour. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please support. Vote. [[11:51:08]] For 217 Not everyone was. Colleagues, take up jobs. I'm asking you very much, I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, it was a requirement of all factions. This is a compromise bill that reinforces the task and role of factions in places and the role of political parties. Colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Svetlana, please, every voice has weight. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to return to Law 4843, and I'm asking everyone to vote carefully and vote back to 4843. Please vote, please support. [[11:52:13]] For 237 Thank you. And now I'm putting draft Law 4843 to the vote as a basis, just as a basis. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote carefully, every vote matters, please support. [[11:52:39]] For 249 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, I ask you to support the next agenda item is inclusion. No, you can't. The committee only has a basis. I'm sorry. I ask you not to urge me to violate the Rules, I ask you to stop the pressure on the Chief of the Supreme Council to violate the Rules. I can't stand it. So, colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, short for another one. Colleagues, let's do a shorter procedure for second reading, I support that, and that's possible, 4843. Short procedure for preparing for second reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We vote in favour of a brief preparation for the second reading. Please vote. [[11:53:36]] For-188. No votes. Colleagues, it is now very important for us to include in the agenda of the day session a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017. I want to remind you, there's Bill 7140, which was discussed on the Conciliation Council yesterday. This bill will allow us to solve these problems that are today in the Donetskian, Lugansk areas with water supply to support our citizens on the line of separation. I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law 7258, except for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. This is an important issue for the government, for Parliament, for our citizens. I ask you to prepare for the vote and take part in the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking for a full-time job. Victor! I ask you to mobilize and support the inclusion of bill 7258 in the agenda of the day session. This is the one we insisted on yesterday on the Conciliation Council. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, getting into the agenda of the day session, not today, just getting involved. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:55:02]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. And the next draft of the decree, which we have in our agenda, is the draft decree on the liberation of Habakkuk from office as Minister of Interior of Ukraine (5041). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Arthur! Please vote. Please support the reduced procedure. I've already gone on for 15 minutes, colleagues. [[11:55:36]] For-167 The decision is not taken. And I invite you to a report from the author's team of Nemirowski. And prepare for the chairman of the Committee of Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has registered the Order on the Liberation of the Minister of Interior of Arsen Awakov. I ask you to determine by your vote all the questions raised in this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u90	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed at its meeting in March 2017 a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal of Habakkuk from office. Arsena Borisovich, Minister of Interior of Ukraine (5041), registered in 2016. Then the need to be released from office as minister was explained by the following, the following motivation. First. The internal affairs authorities of Ukraine, led by Habakkuk, demonstrated the inability to ensure the safety of citizens. And the second. These crime rates have increased to 30 percent in the most common crimes. During the discussion, the draft ruling by members of the committee noted that various grounds had been established in the Constitution of Ukraine for the termination of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, but they were all linked to the resignation procedure. At the same time, according to article 18 of the Ukrainian Act, "The Cabinet of Ministers" a member of the Cabinet may be released from office in Ukraine, first, by accepting the resignation of a member of the Cabinet on his application, once, by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and on his own initiative. With this committee in mind, it has been decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the plenary should decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft Supreme Council Regulation No. 5041 in view of the fact that there is no clear definition today in any legislative act of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u92	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Excuse me, I'll take a look. Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u93	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable fellow national MPs, but most importantly, respected Ukrainians! What's going on in the session room now? A group of MPs representing the Presidential faction of BPT have put forward a draft order for the release of the minister of the same government, for which they have recently voted, Mr. Habakkuk, who represents the faction of the People's Front. What's really going on? Breakdowns take place, with personal breakdowns taking place. It's not about cleaning up the country, it's not about making the country democratic. It's not that we're actually going to have the law one for all, and the law enforcement agencies are going to do the quality of their work. It's about the personal interfractional breakdowns of two factions that call themselves a coalition that doesn't actually exist, or legally. We, the faction, the Fatherland, are not going to be involved in playing these ripples. Take care of yourself. You've formed a government, you've formed a coalition, you've taken responsibility for yourself -- now you're on your own. And the Fatherland faction requires the cleansing of full power. We believe that this authority is unable to implement that policy and to fulfill the promises that it made when it came to power. So the "Fatherland" faction believes that only full reintroduction of power can lead to a change in the situation in the country. You want to break it up, do it without us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u94	Thank you for your position. Láško Oleg Valeriyovich, head of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u95	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! What is happening in Parliament right now is far from fighting corruption, from restoring the rule of law, from protecting your rights. Most people today cannot walk through the streets peacefully because they are being robbed. Most people can't sleep at night, because masked masked thieves can go into a house, rob an apartment, and take the last money. But the parliamentary majority is not going to protect you, dear Ukrainians. They're fighting for power, for influence on law enforcement. The story with Habakkuk, the story of his son's arrest, the charge against the son of the Minister of Interior is all fiction for one purpose: to remove Habakkuk's minister of internal affairs. Who's doing this? We can call the initiator of this story open. This is President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko. Because the only chance for President Prashenko to win an election in 2019 is to subordinate himself to all the power structures that will cover counterfeiting, election abuse, administrative resources and cover crimes in order for Dustenka to elect the President. Peter Prashenko can win my election in 2019 on one condition: when they are forged. So he's trying to usurp power. Today he's running the S.B.I., the Henprosecutor's Office, the Special Services, and he needs to influence the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The monopoly leads to abuse, so we will not give President Dustenk a monopoly on the power structures. The Radical Party team will not vote for Habakkuk's resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u96	Wise. From Self-Help, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout like that! Take the microphone and just say it. Sobolev!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u97	Self-help will vote in favour of this draft decision. I'll remind you that back in 2015 we proposed the resignation of a minister of internal affairs who was unable to overcome corruption inside the Ministry of Internal Affairs, whose personnel are still led by the people of Zacharychenk, who, with his surroundings, was himself caught by the hand of TOP corruption. I'd like to say, to my distinguished colleagues, from the People's Front, as well as Arsen Avakov himself. After what happened last week, in any European country, the minister himself would resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u98	There hasn't been a performance since the People's Front. One minute. Two minutes, right? Two minutes. I see, I see, "The Opposition Block." Okay. After that. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, let us be more emotional and objectively appraise Arsen Habakkuk’s activities as secretary of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In 2014, most of you were in this room when Arsen Avakov became the minister of a police force hated by the whole country, and their employees were neither in the village nor in the streets, and no one was motivated to perform their duties. The country suffered military aggression, and separatists tried to break Ukraine into separate bandit princes. There was virtually no law enforcement system. What did Habakkuk do? First, he saved Kharkiv, second-largest city in Ukraine from the fate of the so-called DNR, LNR. He made a decision about the storm of the captured building of ODA Kharkiv and thus stopped the spread of the "Russian Spring" in 14th year. Did someone forget that? That's how I want to remind you. It's different. With an empty budget, a balanced economy, along with a team, led the country. Habakkuk organized welfare, created the National Guard. These two forces protected Ukraine from the loss of independence. From the first days of his ministry, he began a huge and systematic reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. For the first time, the IMF reform was conducted openly and transparently from the start, with the participation of public organizations and after a review of the world’s most successful experience. Today, under the strategic direction of Minister Habakkuk, the State Border Service, the State Migration Service, the National Migration Service, the National Emergency Service, and the National Police are successfully operating and developing. The success of reforms is also highlighted by the confidence of the population. According to sociology, the level of trust in Nazgardia is more than 52 percent, the Emergency Services is 50 percent, the Police and the Patrol Services are almost 40 percent. The People's Front does not rule out that the real political patrons of these protestors are now sitting far away in the Kremlin. And today we heard one faction nostalgic, celebrating a 100-year revolution. And it shows that one of the creators of this decree is the political clown who works the taxes that the former head of the Presidential Administration of Yanukovic Sergey Ljovczyn gives, and they're sincerely seasoned with psychotropic drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u100	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u101	The People's Front supports the Minister of Internal Affairs. This is the most effective, successful interior minister in the history of Ukraine. Our faction will vote against this decree! And the plot of the fifth column of the Kremlin will fail in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Opposition Block, two minutes. Igor Shurma, please turn on the word Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u103	Igor Šurma. Dear citizens of Ukraine! History teaches one thing: The revolution eats its children. Arsen Habakkuk’s resignation was to be considered today. Today we need to talk about the political responsibility of those who have taken over human resources policy. What do we have in the government today? We don't have a government today, we have a mismanagement today. Where are the Minagropolitics? The corner is retired. Where are the Mininformpolitics? The Stacs resigned. Where is the director of the Ministry of Health? There have been temporary responsibilities for over a year and a half. Responsibilities are zero. Today there is an attempt to take another step towards dictatorship in Ukraine, to the authoritarian form of power. And that's what those people who had 300 votes want to do. Today, don't throw yourself in the direction of the People's Front or the BP. All those who were in the coalition after the Dignity Revolution, all factions, you have political responsibility for that mess in our state. The Opposition Block is not going to support a dot analysis of your internal opposition. We have a lot of claims to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but we're talking about a loan of confidence in this government being exhausted. This government has to resign everything. And then we're left with one Groissman in office and all of them. Or he'll be responsible for their ministries. We are speaking and we are raising the question that today we need to consider the issue of distrust of government, not of one particular one. And remember, the revolution eats its heroes. You were heroes, and you eat yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I mean, one minute. Because three years ago. Attention, colleagues! This is the Head of the Supreme Council speaking. Three years ago, in this Hall of the Supreme Council, I actually gave my authorship an order to appoint Arsen Awakov as Minister of Interior. And I want to remind you of that period. There were no militiamen on the streets of Kiev. None! Three years ago, when the country was on the verge of a breakup, there were not many who were capable of taking responsibility for taking responsibility for bringing the country out of this crisis. And Arsen Habakkuk was one of those who took responsibility. Therefore, I do not regret that, three years ago, Arsen Awakov proposed to the minister of the interior. Then there was the war, then there was the creation of the National Guard, then there was the protection of Ukraine from the Russian aggressor, and Arsen Avakov was at the forefront with his fighters. Today both the reformed National Police, and the reformed National Guard -- they have to be sure and know that Arsen Avakov has sufficient authority and understanding in the sessional room of the Ukrainian Parliament. That is why I believe, by voting, we must demonstrate our support to the Minister of Internal Affairs so that he can continue to carry out his duty to the Ukrainian State. Colleagues, discussion is over. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the liberation of Habakkuk from the post of Minister of Interior of Ukraine (No. 5041). Please determine by vote. Vote. [[12:11:01]] For-31 Order rejected, colleagues. We have two minutes left, and I give my word to Irina Heratchenko to announce the message.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, as you know, more than 40 Ukrainian citizens are now members of the Kremlin, 16 are being held in Russian prisons, several dozen Crimean Tatars. And we are happy that, thanks to the mid-term role of the President of Turkey, Mr. Erdogan, the leadership of President Poshenko has been released from Crimean Tatar leaders Umerov and Chigoza. Sadly, though, the release of hostages is very difficult. And today, on the first floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's an exhibition in the towers, organized by the Kremlin's own families: "The Kremlin Gates or the Russian Testing." I'm asking you very much right now, at 12 o'clock, 15 minutes, to join all of you in opening this show. And also tomorrow, at 6 p.m. in the Pizza Veterano room, there's going to be an auction on behalf of the families of the hostages. We have many teenage children in these families, especially in the Crimean Tatar families, who need special attention and support. And so, of course, it's 152 hostages held in occupied areas. I would like to thank, by the way, all the people's deputies who are joining the fund-raiser for family support, for raising funds for lawyers, for raising funds to buy tickets for families that are protecting them in Russia. Today, by the way, we have a court-martial of a stolen FSB student named Paul Gribe in Russia. And please now, who has the opportunity to join both the exhibition and the fundraiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u106	Thank you, dear fellows. According to the Rules, I'm now calling a 30-minute recess. But what I want to say is that after the break, there's going to be a bill supporting the Ukrainian cinematographer. They have a very small number of rights. And so I ask, colleagues, all to arrive in the hall in a disciplined manner immediately after the break is over. I'm asking everyone to be as disciplined as possible in the hall, because the discussion will be brief, and we'll move very quickly to making a decision. I'm calling it a 30-minute break, till 12:44. And once again, I emphasize that it is necessary to arrive in the hall on time at 12:44. I'll see you guys later.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u107	Colleagues, time taken for recess, are exhausted. And I strongly urge all members of the people to enter the hall. Please and the heads of the factions invite the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to come into the Hall. Colleagues, if you'll all come into the hall, please take your places of work to continue our work. So now we have three bills that apply to cinematography in Ukraine. I want to remind you that we have adopted a number of laws that have made legislation to support the Ukrainian cinematographer one of the most progressive. In order for us to complete this process, we need to amend the Tax Code, the Customs Code and the Budget Code. And now we're going to have three bills on our table, but they have one nuance: they have a very small number of rights. Therefore, the discussion will soon be concluded. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, because this is not going to be a long discussion. So, colleagues, we can put the columns into the hall, and we can move on to the first bill, which is going to be the next one in the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 3238-Deputy). It's a second reading, it doesn't need a separate procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted the Ukrainian Act of 23.03.2017 "On State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine", which states that the State supports cinematography, creating favourable conditions in tax, customs, currency and other forms of regulation. For this purpose, a bill was prepared to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code (Registration No. 3238-d). The proposed tax benefits in cinematographic taxation for income tax, income tax, value added tax, customs operations in Ukraine, and imports of goods into Ukrainian customs territory. In preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading, 19 proposals were made by national deputies, of which 6 were taken into account and 13 were rejected. The proposals taken into account relate to the transfer of the validity of the rules on taxation of corporate income tax on 1 January 2018, i.e. the results already in 2018, rather than this; the exclusion of VAT benefits from the demonstration, distribution or public notification of foreign films of duplicated, public-language films in Ukraine and the granting of such benefits only for national films; the refinement of the definition of the cinematography subject, which corrects the financial result in the context of the payment of the non-resident's royalty for the rights created in Ukraine. Proposals have been rejected: to change the name of the bill; to exclude the characteristics of the identification of a beneficiary for cinematography subjects in the course of its transactions with distributors selling copyrights in separate territories; to expand the list of entities and objects when determining the characteristics of the beneficiary owner for cinematography entities in the course of their transactions with distributors selling copyrights in separate territories, to exclude the benefit from taxes on income tax on individuals and from VAT on imported goods for use in cinematographic activities. I'll talk a little bit, won't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u109	Please add one more minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u110	Allowing VAT to import goods only for the production of national films, not generally for use in cinematographic activities; excluding separate VAT codes for imports without VAT, which were observed by national deputies; limiting the three-year term of purpose for imported VAT-free goods because their term of use will be much more than three years. Corrections to a confession. We can go to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u111	We can go to the repairs. Let's move on to the amendments. And the first amendment, the first amendment that was rejected, is the amendment of the Ostrikov People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the amendment relates to a change in the name of the law. Because it's called "The State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine" today. There was a lot of talk about supporting and reviving Ukrainian movies and making movies, broadcasts, and so on in Ukraine. Instead, there are many rules in this law that do not apply to the production of film in Ukraine, but to the acquisition of television rights in nonresidents. So I propose that these things be excluded, and the name should be changed, so that this really has the support of cinematography in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u113	Nina Petrovna, will you comment or vote? I'll bet you a vote. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the Ostrikov People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:57:56]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 2nd Amendment. Once again, Deputy Ostrikov. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u114	The amendment refers to the exclusion from the bill of conduct where the Ukrainian company acquires rights to television or non-resident films, it is immediately considered that the non-resident is a beneficial owner of such rights. In fact, that would mean that any non-resident could acquire these rights, transfer money abroad, and such a non-resident would be considered a beneficiary. That's what they're proposing right now to legitimize in the Tax Code. You can't definitely do that. If distributors are involved, it should have been written that broadcasters and films are considered to be beneficial owners, not any non-residents, including offshore jurisdictions. This should be explicitly excluded from the Tax Code, what is now being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u115	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment number two, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrickova. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:59:16]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 4th Amendment. Ostrikov's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u116	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u117	Don't insist. 5th. Moroko. Don't insist. 7th. Jacenko. Don't insist. 10th. Auntie, 10th. Please turn on the Ostrecki microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the 10th Amendment refers to the granting of benefits and exemption from tax on the added value of certain imported products. And I'd like to draw your attention to the codes that came into this list that are being released. It's also a transmitter, it's a radiotelephone, it's a radiotelegraph, it's a digital camera, it's a recording camera, it's a lot of other things that have nothing to do with cinema. And I think that giving such an unjustified benefit to a wide list of products will help because it will move to Ukraine without paying the value added tax and will not be used in any further production of Ukrainian films. It's imported. I don't understand why I'm helping import products and I'm losing the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u119	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 10 of Ostrik. I'd like to make a statement. Please vote. [[13:01:12]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Please turn on the microphone. Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u120	Good afternoon! Mr. Head, I'm sorry, I asked you to put Amendment No. 8 and Amendment No. 9 on leave for confirmation, because we care about everyone, and we should actually care about accessibility to the cinema. And I suggest you leave this article, 8th and 9th, in the edition of the first reading, not after the amendments that were made between the first and second readings and accepted by the committee. That is to say, the proposal to place on confirmation 8 and 9 articles, the amendments to 8 and 9 articles, and to leave it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, what is said now by a respected colleague. The point is that at first we wanted to install the tax benefit for the added cost of the service delivery operations for demonstration, distribution or public notification of national films and foreign films, duplicated, public-language. But when the amendments were made, the national MPs ruled out foreign films, which were duplicated and sounded in the national language, regarding their distribution in the territory, well, in our halls, in the cinemas. We've taken this amendment into account because, well, we've talked about it both in the field, and they've, well, made concessions to take into account such observations about, well, the distribution of a foreign film, even a duplicate of Ukrainian language, does not apply to production, to national production. Thus, the amendments were taken into account. Please consider how the committee is edited, since all the amendments have been made in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u123	Do you insist on voting? You insist. Colleagues, I'm going to put it to the vote, first the 8th, then the 9th. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. I would like to point out that the committee supported them, and the committee is asking for their support. Confirming that it is a supporter of the committee's position that should be dialed up to 226. So, colleagues, I'm putting the first amendment 8 to the vote for confirmation, the committee is asking her to support it. Please vote in favour of Amendment No. 8, for confirmation. Please vote. The committee's asking for support. [[13:04:07]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 9th Amendment for Confirmation. Whoever supports the committee votes in favour. Please vote in favour of the 9th amendment. Please. [[13:04:35]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next. 11th, Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u124	Thank you so much for being able to express yourself. My 11th amendment refers to the fact that once again, based on the logic of the 8th, the 9th, which has just failed this hall, this law should only apply to the support of national cinema. What I'm offering, I'm offering the goods that apply to taxes, i.e. tax cuts, exemptions and benefits, only those that are used in the production of our national films. So we're really going to support them. In all other cases, as soon as amendments 8 and 9 have happened, we actually support the budget, at the expense of taxpayers, foreign films. It doesn't make any sense, and that's not the purpose of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u125	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 11 of Helen the Councilman. The committee turned her down. So I'd like to make a determination. [[13:06:03]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 12th, Captain. 13th. 14th, no. Remember. 15th, Pinzenic. There is, please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u126	Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind everyone that taxes on added value are taxed on goods rather than on the subject of farming. One can't sell the same product with VAT and the other without VAT. This is the norm provided for by a valid bill. Because this creates unequal conditions for different subjects and provides opportunities for abuse. But discrimination is yet another aspect. The thing is, technology can't release Ukrainian goods from VAT. That's why we create advantages for imported goods, and we don't allow investment in the relevant sectors of the economy. I also want to remind you that in the morning, I heard a strong condemnation of some offshore schemes. This rule, which is in the law, is nothing more than the introduction of offshores in Ukraine, not abroad, but in Ukraine. So I would like to vote on the appropriate amendment to remove this rule from the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u127	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u128	I would like to deny you entirely for the following reasons. First. The order, volume and conditions of import into the customs territory of Ukraine of the marked goods covered by VAT benefits are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Without this benefit, there can be no development of cinematography at all. That's the main thing. Equipment and everything they need to make Ukrainian, national movies. The other one. You said you couldn't release the goods because another payer would import taxes. It is possible, since untargeted use is like selling goods that account for all the benefits that were paid when imported. That's two. And the third. We must also provide VAT benefits for the distribution of national films, which means a balance between imported and supplied population services in the production of national films. Here's all the positions you just named. They're completely unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u129	But Victor Pinzenik insists on voting. And that's why I'm voting on Victor Pinzenic's 15th amendment. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:08:55]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, this is the final amendment. So I strongly ask now the factions to invite deputies into the hall and to take up jobs. Please also let the secretariat know that in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. And now the 16th amendment. First of all, I'd like to give the floor to Aunt Ostrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Head. Self-help supports Ukraine's production and production of national films, and Ukraine's transmission. And we are convinced that it is necessary to do so by providing direct grants from the state budget. Instead of increasing the number of troops by tens of billions of dollars in funding, there are dates for the development of Ukrainian cinema and Ukrainian television. What is being done in this bill. The owners, any non-residents, are like the beneficiary owners, it's the opening of offshore doors. Unwarranted aid is provided for imported products. And I want to read, for example, "Lights, lamps and lighting equipment." So what's the benefit, why do you need the lamps to make the film, the ones hanging on the ceiling? It's opening doors for offshore schematics and opening doors for smuggling. This bill cannot be voted on. And we call for support from Ukraine's cinema and Ukrainian film maker to provide direct funding in Ukraine's State Budget for 2018. Pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u131	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u132	That's not true. That's not true. That's not true. First, the maximum number of characters in the U.K.U.S. codes has been written in order to prevent abuse and import only those used by the industry. Once again, these items are established by the Cabinet of Ministers. If it's just a lamp that can be hanged in a residential building, it won't be imported with the aid. That's the first one. Second, about granting subsidies to the industry. We voted on the basic bill. But it won't be enough to start the industry in general, and we talked about it on the committee. In fact, the bill is now ready to vote for it and to be monitored for purpose. In any case, the target use, as well as the national regulator, will be controlled by the tax authority. So, please, all that could be done is taken into account. No more corruption, no more corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u133	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion of amendments is over. Thank you, Nina Petrovna. In a minute, we move on to making a decision. I invite everyone to the hall again, and we have the State Agency for Film Affairs in the Supreme Council meeting, and I give him one more word, Illenka Philip Yuriovich. Turn on the microphone. In a minute, the decision will be made. Please take your seats. Philip Yuriovich, please, out of the way. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u134	Good afternoon! I'm asking you to support this bill as proposed by the committee, because its aim is to support not only the production of national films, but also the integration of Ukraine into the world cinema in order for our country to become a place for filmmaking by foreign filmmakers, it's primarily about America and Western Europe. Thank you. I hope you have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u135	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision, I'm asking everyone to take a seat. Nina Petrovna, you're going to vote from the place, right? Please. Please take your jobs, come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you convincingly in that corner. Ivan Krulko, your faction invites you to return. Please, we're taking up jobs. So, John, we're going to be like Santa Claus calling you all in the band. Let's all go together. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 3238, MP), and the committee is proposing to adopt it in a second reading and in general. Colleagues, let's support the Ukrainian film, support the bill, please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Vote. Vote. [[13:14:32]] For 221 We didn't make it, I see we didn't make it. Now, I'm going to put you back, please, colleagues, you don't stand in the corners during the vote, you don't have a discussion, you go back to your jobs. I'm warning you a few times how long the vote will take, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please mobilize, please. You're ready, aren't you? Hey, buddy, everybody got jobs? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act 3238 on support for Ukrainian cinema. Please vote and please return to the Ukrainian Film Support Act. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. Please vote. [[13:15:49]] For 225 We didn't make it. I see they haven't made it. My colleagues, please, I'll put it again, but please be in your seats. Colleagues, please call Maria. Colleagues, we were able to make a record number of films this year. Whoever didn't go to the movie theater at the St. John's Watch, go with the kids and look. See what Ukrainian movies Ukrainian cinematographers are doing today. And in our hands today, give them a boost, give them support. And I ask everyone to take a responsible approach to this vote. It's not just a movie, it's a question of development and Ukrainian identity and humanitarian development. Please support the return to draft Law 3238. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues, disciplined and settled, and we are responsible for the return. [[13:17:15]] For 231 We're back. I now put to the vote draft Law 3238 in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Carefully, every voice has a weight, please support the Ukrainian cinema, please vote. Vote, colleagues, 3228 as a whole. [[13:17:45]] For 228 The law is passed. Next draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (3239). A composite bill, there's only a few rights. I ask you not to disperse, but to remain in your seats so that we do not have to return. Please, Nina Petrovna. If you'll excuse me, it's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u136	Yes. Dear colleagues, I will not be presenting this bill for long, because it is very binding and applies only to the exemption under the Customs Code of Ukraine. The second read came with seven suggestions, all seven of them rejected. At its meeting on 11 July, the Committee considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it in a second reading and in general with regard to technical and economic rights. We can go after the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u137	Thank you. Let's take a dynamic walk on the amendments, and I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. One ostrikova. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u138	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u139	Please 2 amendments, Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I won't be taking much of our time. I just want you to understand what kind of imported production you're exempting from paying your dues when you're blurry, disguised as if it was supporting cinematography in Ukraine. This is about the lights and other electrical lighting devices that hang or fasten on the ceiling or on the wall, the lamps, the lamps, the lighting equipment, for example, you release this bill from duty and the previous one from VAT. We benefit from cinematography for the production of national films in Ukraine, here to the national producer, not import products.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u141	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 2. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:20:07]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Third. Don't insist. Four. He insists. Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, imagine the situation, you cross the customs border of Ukraine, you carry a certain commodity, and they force you to pay taxes, customs. You have the same product, but another company and it doesn't pay for the same product. And it's not because the second company has godfather, son-in-law, or customs, but because it wants a talented Ukrainian Parliament. There can be no specific exemption from duty, it is wrong from an economic point of view. But I would like to remind you, the Constitution says that there is no discrimination against subjects of farming, which is a direct norm of discrimination. My readout refers to the following. If you want to be relieved of your duties, free everyone from your duties, for all subjects must be in equal conditions. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u143	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number four of the People's Deputies of Pinzenik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:21:33]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. Colleagues, we've been through all the revisions. 6th, last edition, colleagues. A vote will take place in a minute. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Invite everyone into the hall. Last amendment. National deputy Tetjana Ostrkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u144	My fellow Members, the 6th amendment concerns that this law should take effect - if you vote for it - even as of 1 January 2018, as provided for in the valid budget code. If you're providing the benefits, they can't start operating in the middle of the year, because the State Budget doesn't have any compensators to cover the damage that will be caused to the State budget and the fiscal losses of providing these unjustified benefits for VAT imports and for the moment, the blurring of imported equipment. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. If you are already voting for this, at least this would start to work on January 1, 2018, in line with the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u145	Please, Nina Petrovna. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u146	I want to disappoint the industry, because these rules are really only going to work by bringing all the normative documents into line with the Cabinet of Ministers, and they've been given three months to do so. So that's how all these benefits will start to work, just starting in January 2018. If only we had considered it in July. That would be a different situation. That's why standards are actually going to be effective, I think, at least since January 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u147	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. And let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, stop the discussion, prepare for the vote, so that we don't have a return so we can vote for the first time. So you're ready, right? And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 3239) as proposed by the Committee on Second Reading and Overall. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Vote. Please support 3239 as a whole. [[13:24:16]] For the 220. Same story, colleagues. Come into the hall, please! Well, I'm not going to call you forever. It's just that we're delaying the consideration of other bills -- strategic environmental assessment. Please enter the hall and take your seats. It's not a nursery. Please take up jobs. So please join the Chamber, and I'm voting on the proposal to return to the draft Ukrainian Film Support Act (3239). Please vote, colleagues, and please support the Ukrainian film. Each voice has a weight. I ask that you carefully, disciplinedly and responsibly vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Back to 3239. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:25:47]] For 223 Three votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three votes! I see. I see you haven't made it. I'll put it again, but, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the room (we don't have three votes to make a decision) and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. So, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please don't leave the hall. Please prepare for the vote and vote responsibly. Ready, colleagues? Andrew Illenko! In place, right? So, colleagues, I'm putting the vote back, 3239. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice, very carefully. We're voting for the return. We'll support the Ukrainian film. It's strange what's going on in the hall for this kind of acknowledgment. Please support the Ukrainian film, vote for the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[13:27:09]] For 235 And I'm putting draft Law 3239 in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. In total, 3239. Vote, fellows! [[13:27:33]] For 228 The law is passed. And the last of this block is the bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 3240). I'd like to invite you to the report by Ishtajkin Constantine. There are very few amendments. Please leave everyone in the workplace. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u148	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! In line with the decision of the Supreme Council, the Budget Committee on October 5th, 16th, considered Bill 3240, which was further elaborated on the second reading, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt such a bill as a law in its final edition. However, the drafting of the bill for second reading by the committee was carried out in accordance with a systematic bill of 3081 (d) on State support for cinematography in Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a law on 22 September 2016, but which was applied by the President of Ukraine to the veto in order to complete its provisions in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code of Ukraine. The draft Law 3240 was then finalized, proposed by the Committee on Budget Issues on the outcome of its review on 5 October 2016, and requires further development and alignment with the current revision of the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine. The following decision was adopted on June 21, this year, to settle the budget committee noted. To recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of Ukrainian law number 3240 has been finalized to return the Committee from the budget for further processing and to resubmit the second reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u149	Thank you. Colleagues, the committee's asking for a second readback. I think this is actually a compromising position. I think we're going to support it all in the hall without discussion. By the way, all the corrections that have been made are included. So there's nothing to discuss here. All we have to do is get together and vote. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and support the committee's position. Please enter the hall and prepare for the vote. The committee requests that the second reading be returned. I ask everyone to support the position of the committee. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State support for cinematography in Ukraine, 3240, for the proposal of the Committee to return the second reading to the Committee. Please vote, please support, colleagues. We stand, we vote. Please be supportive. The committee's asking for everyone's support. [[13:30:45.]] For 224 Two votes, I see. I saw you working in the hall. It's irresponsible, it's not European, it's anti-European. So I'm voting the proposal to go back to 3240. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please support the position of the committee. Vote. [[13:31:22]] For 215 I don't understand, colleagues. It's an offer to go back to the second. What happened in the hall? I'm asking you to take up your jobs and support the committee's position. Please. So I'm going to do it again. We can't even go back. I'm putting the committee's proposal to the vote again. Colleagues, this is a compromising position to return to the committee for second reading. I ask everyone to mobilize and support the position of the committee. Ready? I'm voting on the committee's proposal to return the draft Law (3240) to read again. I'm asking everyone to support me and I'm asking you to vote. Support me. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues, for re-reading. Vote, please. [[13:32:39]] For 225 One voice. What do you mean? What do you mean? Okay. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for a draft Law 3240 to return to the second reading. Please support the committee's proposal. Please vote and please support the committee's proposal. We vote, colleagues, carefully, every voice matters. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:33:20]] For 228 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. I found out in the apparatus, we could not go back, we could bet right away. So three laws supporting cinematography are supported. The following will be a draft of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act (6,166). A bill of great importance is one of our important obligations to cooperate with the European Union. But before I go to him, I want to announce that the presidency has been called for, I would even say, a request from two factions to announce a recess, but two factions are ready to replace it with a speech from the rostrum, a revolutionary speech by national deputy Alexi Musak. And I invite him to the main rostrum of the country. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u150	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! Today, November 7, 2017. Even 100 years ago, Bolsheviks came to power. They called it the Yellow Revolution. In the aggressor country, in Moscow, there's even a celebration of the 100th anniversary. But in fact, for Ukraine it's not the 100th anniversary of the Yellow Revolution, it's the 100th anniversary of land slavery. The first decision made by the Bolsheviks was to take the land away, not to give it up, as someone thought. Next, a quote from the Land Decree, which was adopted at 2 p.m., right after the takeover of power. That's what he sounded like. “The fairest solution to the land issue must be that. Private property on land is cancelled. The land can neither be sold nor purchased nor leased.".. Actually, Lenin didn't speak Ukrainian, unfortunately, I'd like to understand what was in the Lenin decree. In Lenin's decree, it's Russian. Thus, for 100 years, Ukraine has been enslaved to land. They began by taking the land, taking cattle, bread, organizing famines, and breaking the back of the Ukrainian nation. Why the Communists did it, of course, because the Communists hated Ukraine and hated its freedom. But the question of why the new Ukrainian authorities, including the post - Mutant authorities, are afraid to give economic freedom to Ukrainians. And the answer is actually simple. There is no Simone in this room anymore, there are no Communists in fact, but there are communists in mentality. We've just been shown sickle and hammer before, and now they're showing us hair and pitchfork. But it doesn't change that. These politicians fear the economic freedom of the Ukrainians. In fact, there is no need to fear this because nothing bad happens where the Ukrainian is free to buy and sell the land. On the contrary, in Canada the Ukrainian is such a wealthy, respectable person. In Argentina, for example, the descendants of Ukrainians, Gabriel the Grave digger, are the most successful agrarian. So it seems to me that, at 26 years of independence of Ukraine, we should finally give economic freedom to the Ukrainian, and we should finally give him freedom of land, including land. There's no need to be afraid of that. And finally. The Earth’s moratorium must be lifted. The Ukrainian must be free of land and the Ukrainian country must be free. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u151	Thank you. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act (6106). And I invite you to report to the Committee on Environmental Policy on Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, the draft Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment (Registration No. 6106) is being introduced in second reading for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill is designed to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation in the area of application and order of strategic environmental assessment in accordance with the approach established in the European Parliament Directive, the EU Council of 27 June 2001, and to implement the provisions of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment and the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context. The bill's task is to define the scope of the strategic environmental assessment, to establish the order of its implementation, to carry out cross-border consultations, to inform on the decisions taken and to monitor the implementation of strategies, plans, state-wide programmes, national target programmes and programming documents, including any changes to them. The bill is extended to state planning documents that will have an impact on the environment and health of the population and does not extend to State planning documents that relate to national security, which are important, and to emergency situations, budgets, budgetary programmes, and financial plans, as well as to economic and social development programmes for areas, regions and cities, villages and villages for a short period of time. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, 40 comments and suggestions were made by national deputies. 20 offers are counted and 20 are rejected. In the process, terminology, the scope of the bill, refinements and stages of strategic environmental assessment, the structure of the report, and so on were improved. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment on the outcome of the second reading and generally as a law. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have already adopted this whole Strategic Environmental Assessment Act with all the procedures for its consideration last year. The President of Ukraine brought him back to Parliament with his suggestions and observations, which we have actually taken into account over the past six months with the President's Administration, with an expert environment. Therefore, the bill is balanced, balanced, well written, and extremely important to the State. It's a Euro-Integration Bill. Unfortunately, not many have been adopted lately, so it's very important not to miss it and accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u153	Thank you for your clarification. We're moving on to amendments, colleagues, not many, so I'm asking you not to break up. National MP Lewchenko, 6 amendments, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u154	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It is not clear from the content proposed in the bill that the definition of the term “consignor” in article 1 should be understood as “another, defined by law, contracting government planning documents”. This creates preconditions for the inclusion in the customer circle of any entrepreneurial activity that is defined not only at the legislative level but also at the sub-legislative level. Because the term "legislature" in a broad sense includes both legislation and legislation. In view of that, I propose that the words "or another, defined by legislation, contracting state planning documents" be deleted from this paragraph. In general, I would like to say that despite the substantial positive, the main disadvantage of the bill is the very low level of detail in many articles that I will now talk about, that it allows legislation to be treated in a double manner and creates a system of legal uncertainty. Sadly, these amendments were not taken into account by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u155	Do you insist on voting for your amendment? Please vote on Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. [[13:41:37]] For-88 I didn't get the support I needed. Next amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputy Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u156	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction will support the vote for this bill, we are among the co-authors, we have also applied. Thank you for taking into account. And we think that the adoption of this bill at a time when the whole world in Bonn is now dealing with climate change, one of the most important problems in ecology, in energy, in the economy, I think the Supreme Council should adopt this bill and support the trend towards greening our state policy. And I want to look at all the political parties, so that in future elections to the Supreme Council, in the elections in the community, much more attention is given to the very sphere of ecology, because if you look at the political party programs, this area, unfortunately, is either not represented at all or it takes its last place. I think the trend towards greening should be supported by the world trend that exists, including in Ukraine. We call for a vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u157	Thank you. We're voting for your 8th amendment or not. Don't insist. Let's move on to the 10th Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u158	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. It is also unacceptable that the fourth part of the second part of the draft, according to which it operates, will not be extended to, quote, the “economic and social development programme of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, districts, districts and towns for a short period of time”. The thing is, it's the adoption and practical implementation of such documents and it can have negative effects on the environment, and it's therefore illogical why the law won't spread to them. In addition, it is not clear why this position in the project is a permanent norm, since section VI, paragraph 3, “Towards” and “Transitional positions” of the project provides that the fourth part of the second part of article 2 of this law is no longer valid as of 1 January 2020. So I'm asking you to exclude this from the bill, which is illogical, in my opinion, absolutely exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u159	We vote, please, Amendment 10. [[13:44:00]] For-59 Okay, let's move on. The amendment is not supported, 59 votes just paid for it. Next, amendment 15 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u160	The second part of article 4 does not give a clear idea of the composition of strategic environmental assessment subjects. It does not take into account, in particular, that the list of central executive authorities that can participate in different ways in the SEE is much broader than the one mentioned in article 4 of the project. In particular, not only central executive bodies that implement public policy in the field of environmental protection and the central executive authority that implements public health policies, but also all other central executive bodies that are responsible for implementing public policy in specific areas of environmental management, such as the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, the State Water Agency, the Ukrainian Geodesy, Cartography, cadastre, the State Fisheries Agency, and so on. So I propose that this rule be supplemented by the words "and other central executive authorities" in order to make greater use and full use of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u161	Head. A representative of Mr. Ostap Ednak's committee wants to comment on this amendment of yours, Your Honor Lehchenko, National MP, Mr. Lehchenko. Please, Mr. Ostap's microphone, Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, well, we've actually identified who are the buyers of the strategic environmental assessment. And we think it would be inappropriate to extend them, according to other central executive authorities. Although we understand that the Ministry can also draw up a comprehensive list of contractors by developing regulations. That's why I'm asking you to leave. That's all in the chapter. in part three of this article and in part four, we write, "executive authorities and local self-government authorities," which, in principle, is an expansion of the number of customers, performers of strategic environmental assessment. Thus, the committee did not take into account the comments of the Levchenk People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u163	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of Amendment 15. [[13:46:28]] For-44 Next amendment to the 27th, People's Deputy Levchenka. And the 15th. Next amendment. The amendment was not supported, and only 44 national deputies voted for it. Correction number. Now, a minute, I'm looking for 22 amendments, but I think. 22nd -- it's counted. Mr. Levchenko insists that she is not included. Please, Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u164	Thank you. It's written that it's partially counted. It's not really counted. It's about detailing the question of hearing, actually, public. The proposal for a bill on the publication of the draft State Planning Document and the Strategic Environmental Assessment Report needs to be complemented by provisions to ensure an effective public reporting mechanism for the start of public hearings, including through the additional placement of information stands in public places: stops, information boards, notice boards, buildings, and so on, in the area for which construction documentation is being developed, and in the area around the building site. For the time being, reports are only available in the media, which are very difficult for the public. And that's how the public usually learns about the design of the corresponding documentation when public hearings are formally conducted. Real public information will help reduce conflict situations, as the public will really be able to get information on public hearings in a timely manner. I'd like to emphasize here, I'm constantly faced with similar questions and with the existing urban legislation, when we seem to have, for example, public hearings. Please give me 10 seconds, please, headmaster, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u165	I just want to. We have 25 minutes left, and there are 10 amendments you have to make so that we can vote. Vote, Your Honor, for the 22nd amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. So we can just take a look at the bill before the break. Colleagues, please vote. [[13:48:33]] Z-77 77 votes. You don't get the required amount. Next to the 27th People's Deputy, Levchenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u166	Thank you. Well, it's a different amendment. I won't insist now. Given that we have not been able to complete the past, I would like to point out that the problem of public hearings in this bill has not been properly addressed. In fact, as it's now prescribed, it's all happening. will take place absolutely, without any real possibility of influencing the process. Just as we see in the current urban legislation, when there are public hearings about detailed territorial plans, and in fact people will learn about these hearings after the relevant city councils have adopted these DPTs. You have to really give people the opportunity to get that information. It's not just writing in a local newspaper, for example, in Kiev, writing an ad in the Krystack newspaper that's going on, but actually bringing it to people. Then it will be a real hearing. And that's why, in fact, that was my previous amendment. Sadly, it did not pass. On the 27th amendment, I don't insist, because this is a previous norm that was no longer supported by the hall, so please the 28th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u167	Please, the 28th amendment. Give Mr. Lechchenk a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u168	Once again, the proposal introduces a public hearing procedure not only of the building documentation, but also of a separate building project, where the main conflicts and the opposition of the public and the builders arise. I propose that the public be given the opportunity to participate in public hearings and to offer their proposals for a separate construction project at the stage of its development, not after its approval. This will contribute to the development of projects that take into account the interests of not only the builder but also the locals. It will also help to identify all the problems and help to eliminate them, as well as to reduce social tension with regard to new construction. So the proposal is simple: to supplement the bill with the words "and projects of individual buildings (project documentation)". If there is such a concept as a strategic environmental assessment, let's make the most of this for individual buildings to protect the public's interests in the context of ecology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u169	Thank you. Vote for the 28th amendment. Colleagues, there were ten amendments to the People’s Deputy Levchenk and then to the vote. This bill belongs to Ukraine's implementation of part of our Association Agreement, so I ask you to return to the session room in 10 minutes' time. 28th Amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:18]] For-64 64 national deputies supported your amendment, it's not taking. 29th Amendment, Levechenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u170	My 29th amendment concerns once again the question of how to use the relevant law on the evaluation of new buildings and generally urban activities. I propose to complete paragraph 10 of paragraph 5 of section VI of the bill after the words "city building" add the words "and project documentation". In fact, this refers to the point that now sounds like "the approval of urban documentation without public hearings on projects of such documentation is prohibited." I mean, not only do we have this urban documentation, but we have this project documentation. Please, however, fill the bill with real meaning, not mere declarant standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u171	We're voting for the 29th amendment, dear colleagues. [[13:52:29]] Z-62 62 votes, no backup required. Next, the 30th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u172	This bill suggests such an interesting thing that public hearings do not necessarily take place in the alienation of land, other immovable property that is located in private property, for social needs or for reasons of social need, for the alienation of land, for other immovable property that is located in the property of natural or legal persons. This proposal is totally pointless. Because public hearing is a prerequisite for transparency and legality in urban activities. So we have public hearings and so, unfortunately, they don't often produce positive results because their actual executive authority doesn't allow them to have a proper time. Here they're allowed to write quite a bit of butaphoric. And that's where you suggest, in fact, that under certain categories of things, that you clear up public hearings as such. Well, that's totally unacceptable, and that's exactly not going to relate to the logic of Europeanism, the so-called Europeanity of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u173	We're voting for 30 amendments, colleagues. And we continue the session for five minutes of the morning session in order to be able to consider the bill as a whole. We're voting for the 30th amendment. [[13:54:05]] For-72 No correction supported. Next 32rd, 33rd. You don't want to connect, Mr. Levchenko? We just voted 31st, we voted 31st. 32's coming, 32's coming. The 31st we've already considered and voted on. Microphone, please. 32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u174	We've been working on 30 corrections just now. Now 31st, please, stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u175	Please, please, I'm confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u176	Yeah, that's what we were doing in the 30s. Now I'm asking about the 31st. 31st refers to again and again to complement the question of what documentation is published during public hearings, to be supplemented not only by urban documentation, but also by project documentation. Because it's also, in fact, a very important component of urban activity. And it's a very important part of protecting the environment. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u177	Please define 31 amendments. [[13:55:12]] Z-62 He doesn't get the required number of votes, 62. 32 revisions. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u178	Thank you. The 32 amendments refer to the same question. In fact, I would like to use this point to draw attention to when we talk about Western European standards, I'm paying attention to colleagues in the hall, so that we're listening to what we're talking about, that in the vast majority of Western European countries, the question of building new objects, even the smallest objects, is so detailed and transmitted to the community in context, too, Mr. Ostap, environmental standards, environmental standards, is so passed down directly to the public when people can stop any building if they come together to listen and decide that they meet the needs of the appropriate micro-region, or even from neighbouring houses, that it was worth adopting into our legislation, particularly through the introduction of relevant questions and in this bill. Well, this amendment of mine is about the same question, it's about publishing project documentation and evaluating it for environmental standards, but unfortunately, I see that these moments are not supported by the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u179	Thank you. Comment by the committee representative. Mr. Lewchenko, there are differences in MPs, perhaps we will speed up the process of consideration so that we do not lose it and vote on it, I ask you very much. Please, Mr. Ostap, word. And then perhaps Mr. Levchenko will shorten the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I just want to comment that the scope of regulation of this law is government planning and planning documents by local government authorities. Building projects are the scope of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which you and I adopted six months ago, and in December it enters into force. And according to specific construction projects, transparent procedures and public hearings will be considered, and this is already regulated by another law. That's why I'm asking you not to fool the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u181	We vote in favour of this 32nd amendment at the request of Mr. Levchenk. I've moved on. [[13:57:27]] Z-62 62 deputies, not supported. Next 35th. It's almost an omen. 35th. I see everything. 35th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u182	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Well, first of all, I did point out, Mr. Ostap, that you are contradicting yourself. Because the decisions of local governments and, in particular, of such matters as the details of the territory’s plan are the decisions of local governments. And these are things that govern the lives of tens of thousands of Ukrainians in general, and they have exactly this bill to fall into, not just what you mentioned, that legislation. But less. With regard to this amendment, in paragraph 5 of section VI, paragraph 5, of the bill, the words “through a conciliatory commission” should be replaced by the words “analysis and development of a proposal to resolve outstanding issues with a view to a more effective method of resolving issues”, in fact. Because now, as stated in this bill, here are the issues, the issues, unfortunately, are not settled properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u183	We're voting for the 35th amendment. We're on our way, please. Colleagues, the four remaining amendments, please return to the hall, because there will be a vote soon. [[13:58:42]] Z-62 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 36th. 37th. What's that? 39th, it's almost a pass. 39th, Levenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u184	Yes. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. In fact, I have a number of amendments on the issues that we've discussed, so I don't insist on them, I'm trying to find questions, actually, that we haven't discussed yet. 39 amendments apply to the following. The proposal for paragraphs 21 to 33 of paragraph 5 of section IV of the bill should be replaced by paragraphs to provide more detailed information on public hearings. What should include reports of public hearings, their dates, places, time to participate, publicizing public offerings, and the results of public hearings? Regrettably, the current drafting of the bill makes once again the issue of public offerings absolutely declarant and such that they will not allow Ukrainian citizens who are not in the power of any level to properly influence the process. Please support the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u185	Thank you for your clarification. Please vote 39 amendments, Your Honor. [[14:00:03]] For-58 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. At the last amendment, 40th, do you insist? Please, Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u186	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I would like to point out in the end that unfortunately, despite the positive norms of this bill, there are probably a lot of positive norms, unfortunately, that there are very many rules on legal uncertainty that do not allow for the proper implementation of those positive aspects of the bill. Unfortunately, public participation is not regulated properly, as it should be regulated. Unfortunately, the scope of the bill is not distributed as it should be distributed to maximize environmental protection. So despite the positive things, these things, unfortunately, aren't working, by the way, although they were actually re-reading again. It is a shame that the public is not properly involved in the fight for a clean environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u187	Thank you. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put an amendment to the vote, but this is the last amendment. In a minute, we're going to make a decision, so I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. This is our obligation to cooperate with the EU and therefore I ask very much to take the vote in favour of this law. I ask you to invite everyone into the hall and heads of factions, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and ask everyone to take up their jobs. Now I'm putting to the vote amendment number 40 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote, the committee has rejected it. Please make up your mind and take your jobs, please. [[14:01:56]] For-73 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we've completed the discussion of all the amendments and we can move on to the decision-making process. Please come into the hall and take your jobs, take your jobs. Please give me another minute, Minister of Ecology Semerac. In this moment, I ask everyone to come into the hall and invite everyone into the hall and take their jobs. Please, Semiraq, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear Head, honourable national deputies, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee for its close cooperation between the Supreme Council, the Government and the President's Administration in preparing this bill. I'd like to highlight two things. The first is that this bill is aimed at implementing the Association Agreement, the road map supported by all Ukrainian societies, to adapt our legislation to European. And secondly, this bill extends its action to state planning documents that have an impact on the environment and health and human life, and does not extend to state documents relating to national security, defence, the fight against the consequences of an accident or disaster, and does not extend to socio-economic programmes of local self-government. So I would like to support this bill, which was drafted by the people's deputies and supported by the Ukrainian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u189	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. And I'm voting on the draft Act on Strategic Environmental Assessment (No. 6106) at the committee's second reading and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:04:17]] For 197 197. Colleagues, I'll put you back. Please come into the hall. Show by factions. Colleagues, this is going to be a very bad signal for our Western partners. I'm asking you to mobilize. I'll be right back. Take your jobs, don't leave the hall, colleagues, don't leave. This is going to be a very bad signal, I'm asking everyone. Talk to me now. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote now. I'll be back. Ready? I ask you to put and support the proposal to return to 6106 on a strategic environmental assessment. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for my return. Please support me, colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. [[14:05:53]] For 203 Colleagues, me. Attention, take your seats. I'll go to those who didn't vote. Attention! Are you ready to vote again? The second one's ready again. Are the second ready again? Are you ready for the second one again? Colleagues, now I'm going to re-read it, we don't have the right to overthrow this bill. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and I'm going to re-read it. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs and support, colleagues. Do not undermine Parliament's authority and our cooperation with the EU. So I'm going to put the next vote. Please support everyone. I'm proposing a draft of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act (6106) for re-reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be disciplined by every voice, please support. Vote, colleagues, re-read. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[14:07:16]] For 211 Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm asking those who. Turn on the factions. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize, I'm asking you to back up the second reading. The discussion is over, please support me, colleagues. I'm just asking you to support all the factions that have held back, take your jobs. I'm asking you to support everyone. Please support. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs and support it. I'm going to put the vote again. I'll tell the team, "Rebirth. Anton, I'll give you another word for the speech. Support, colleagues, don't embarrass the Ukrainian Parliament. I'd like your support, colleagues. So I'm making a compromise proposal, I'm asking the whole room to support it. Draft Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment (6106) for re-reading. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. I'm asking you to vote. I'm asking you to support me. We vote, colleagues, every vote, every vote matters, we vote. Please be supportive. [[2:08:41]] For the 220. Six votes. Colleagues, don't leave the hall, please, take your seats, don't leave the hall. I'm asking you very much, colleagues. This is the authority of the entire parliament, and of every MP. Once again, I ask everyone, colleagues, six votes and the authority of Parliament, and our cooperation with the EU. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking for every voice, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up all the jobs right now. Please be very disciplined to go to the vote. We're on our way. Okay. Jacinka, 30 seconds, please. And please. Thirty seconds and we vote. Anton Yatzenko, 30 seconds. You support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, a great request to support you, after all. But there aren't just any physical people in the room right now, so look, it's an empty hall. So there's an offer to make. The proposal to postpone this vote to Thursday will be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-07-m0.u191	I'm asking you to support, and I'm sorry not to make any suggestions. Please, colleagues, concentrate, each voice, six votes. I'm asking you to hear me, every voice matters. I'm asking you to focus. I'm voting on the draft Act on Strategic Environmental Assessment (6106) for a second reading. I ask very conscientiously for everyone to vote. So, colleagues, please support me, please vote. Every vote, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, re-reading 6106. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Voting now, take your seats. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:10:39]] For 225 One voice. I'll do it again, one vote. It's irresponsible. Colleagues, take up your jobs, stay out of the hall. Everyone take the job. One voice. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Guys, don't come out! Please! Valera, please, one second, one vote! One vote, please! I'm asking you to get ready right now. Guys, 10 seconds, and we're done. I am now voting on the draft Strategic Environmental Assessment Act, 6106, for the second reading again. I ask everyone to vote. I ask you to approach me carefully. Help me, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Everyone, please vote for everyone. Vote! Another second reading, 6106. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Every voice. Pay attention! [[14:11:49]] For 227 Decision taken. It was difficult, colleagues, but actually inviting MPs into the hall is not the right approach to work. We had a difficult morning meeting, but at the same time it was a success. Now the time stipulated in the Rules is running out. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I want to report that after lunch we will move on to a very important law, this is a project to amend some of Ukraine’s laws on strengthening child safety (3579). And I ask everyone to come to work with discipline at 4:00. And I hope that after lunch our meeting will be as successful as it was before lunch. I'll see you later.
