ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u1	Good morning, company! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, and prepare for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u2	Colleagues ready to take part in the registration? So please ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to register. Please register. [[10:04:45]] There are 321 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to Vladimir Borisovich. We have a traditional "hour of questions to the government" today. I remind you, 30 minutes from the government. And today the head of the State Service of Ukraine will speak out of the extraordinary situations of Mikola Alexanderovich Chechtkin, as well as Ukrainian Culture Minister Eugene Mikolaiovich Niszczuk. Then 30 minutes -- questions from the national MPs. And so, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we begin "the hour of questions to the Government." And I invite you to speak to the head of the State Service of Ukraine from the extraordinary situations of Mikola Alexandrovich Chechtkin. Mikola Alexandrovich, please have up to 15 minutes to perform. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u3	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! With information on the fire and explosions at the ammunition depots of the Ministry of Defence in Balaklia, the State Service of Ukraine, in exceptional situations, together with the local authorities, the main efforts were, first, focused on the evacuation of the population from the danger zone. For what purpose an evacuation plan was put in place and evacuation sites were organized. With the timely announcement of the population and the rapid deployment of 74 buses, some 20,000 people from the city of Balaklia and 9 adjacent locations in the dangerous 10km zone were evacuated in the shortest possible time. Out of these, 2,450 people were evacuated through open evacuations, and more than 17,000 left on their own. Special attention was paid to the removal of disabled and elderly persons, which involved 25 ambulances, 6 State Service vehicles from emergency situations, and 3 armoured vehicles from the National Guard. A total of 830 disabled and elderly, 70 disabled, and 760 elderly were evacuated. From the central district hospital, 130 patients have been evacuated to the hospitals of the population of Donetsk (70 people) and Savinzi (60 people). More than 5,300 places have been prepared for evacuation in schools, children’s camps, and rest facilities, which accommodate some 3,700 people. There's 1,600 seats left. Local authorities have arranged three meals of the evacuated population, water supply, food, and necessities. The National Police, the local authorities, have conducted 120 multi - house search and evacuation teams to locate and evacuate persons with limited capabilities. To prevent looting in evacuated areas, law enforcement agencies patrol, gas distribution stations, and other critical infrastructure facilities. On the basis of the Balkan Reich administration, a full - time telephone service is organized. In order to carry out lifesaving and other emergency work in the area of emergency, the necessary forces and facilities of the Ukrainian State Service were concentrated in the shortest possible time, with an extraordinary total of 400 personnel and 110 technical units, including 9 exchange offices. During the past century, the public service units removed and destroyed 74 explosive ordnance and ammunition fragments in the territory of the city of Balaklia, killing 15 fires outside the arsenal resulting from the impact of ammunition. The territory of the city of Balaklia and adjacent to the arsenal of fields has been broken down into sectors to clean up explosive objects and identified settlements in a 10-mile zone that need first-hand testing. The following measures have been taken to prevent emergency situations at locations near the arsenal: a gas shut-off in the city of Balaklia; 29 potentially dangerous objects, 13 gas stations and a number of other objects suspended; a temporary halt in train traffic through the station of Balaklia; an emergency traffic is being diverted into the area; and an air space within a 40 - km radius has been closed. In all, more than 1,300 people and 230 technical units have been involved in eliminating the effects of emergencies. There are two fire trains in the reserve to provide fire services at the Shebelinka railway station and one at the Slovenian station. The situation in Balaklia remains complex, and the explosions in the arsenal continue, but their intensity has decreased considerably. According to previous reports, 12 private farm buildings have been destroyed as a result of shelling and fire. The explosive waves and debris of ammunition partially damaged the roofs and windows in multi-story and private buildings, in a public school, in a railway station, in a dairy plant, and in other facilities near the arsenal. A commission survey has been started to determine the extent of damage to buildings, buildings, social facilities, and life - support. Late in the evening, a woman was found dead in 1951 while the housing sector was under construction. According to the Ministry of Health, a woman’s head was severely injured by a shell in her home in 1962. Fire extinguishing in the arsenal is carried out by a special unit of the Ministry of Defense involving two fire tanks. Today, the basic efforts of the service units are focused on the exchange in the safe areas of the city of Balaklia and other population sites in the 10 km zone, which have already begun nine pyrotechnic calculations of the service, on the fire protection of the housing sector of potentially dangerous objects and on the construction of social infrastructure near the arsenal, for the evacuation of the population at the turn of the citizens. In case the situation in the service reserve is complicated, a fire rescue team of 250 personnel and 65 technical units and 6 pyrotechnic calculations are maintained. The headquarters is in place to eliminate the consequences of an extraordinary situation led by the head of the Balkan District State Administration and the operational group of the State Service of Ukraine under the leadership of my first deputy. The State Service has taken all possible steps to minimize the consequences of an emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u4	Thank you. And I invite you to a report by Ukrainian Culture Minister Eugene Mikolaiovich Niszczuk. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear Prime Minister, Honourable People's Deputies, colleagues, members of the government! Dear Ukrainian people! Changes take place for the better if there is inspiration and passion. I am in a very inspired mood today, because yesterday in these walls the Supreme Council finally adopted two fundamental laws for culture. The first is about state support for cinematography in Ukraine and the second, about the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. I sincerely thank the National Deputies for their invaluable contribution to the development of modern European Ukrainian culture. Your support is a champion of political will for those who are tired of waiting for change. This is a strong medium for all those who have been challenged by social media discussions that cultural change is possible at all. Moreover, your support confirms the repositioning of culture in public policy, the recognition of its unique role in the continuous development of society, the personal development of every human being. I want to remind you, strategic vision, a vision of culture for a medium-term perspective formulated by civil society experts. In this view, culture, among other things, acts as a sphere of social competence, as a space of broad social communication, as a soft force and way of increasing Ukraine’s presence in the world, and ultimately as an important factor in the country’s economic development. The last statement I can already illustrate with specific figures from the draft national report on the results of the collection and the identification of indicators of cultural impact on socio-economic development in Ukraine, developed by UNESCO methodology, CDIS. This report is prepared by the EU and the Eastern Partnership "Culture and Creativity" in partnership with the Ukrainian Cultural Research Centre of the Ministry of Culture. Thus, the impact of the cultural sector on Ukraine’s economy was found to be very important. In 2014, the sector provided at least 4 percent of GDP. For comparison: it's slightly less than a mining industry, where 5.72, financial and insurance activities are 5.11, but more than the construction sector, where 2.67. Moreover, according to the report, more than 3 percent of the employed population in Ukraine worked in cultural and creative industries in 2014. You can agree that such facts allow you to have a conversation, to talk about the meaning, needs, and interests of culture at a different level in principle. And this is already reflected in the policies and plans of the entire government. Thus, in a recently published medium-term plan of government priorities up to 2020, cultural goals are not first considered in the context of sustained economic development, and they are not possible without the development of human capital, to which culture has a direct impact. The latter is particularly important in view of the decentralization reform that is taking place in the country. The importance of culture for economic and social development, community development, and regions is difficult to overestimate. Thus, it is essential to create conditions under which the cultural rights of citizens are realized, equal access to resources and infrastructures, incentives for creativity, cultural production, and so forth. The Ministry of Culture is doing everything, depending on itself, to create these conditions. To that end, we are working consistently and persistently to increase the institutional capacity of the Ministry itself, as well as the institutions and institutions that are in its sphere of influence. As early as last year, we reorganized the Ministry of Culture's apparatus, adding new functions that need to be done according to time and society: we changed the Ministry of Culture's position, expanded the scope of competence, activated the sphere of influence. In particular, strategic planning and development management has been established, the creative industry sector, the language and literature management, and the public affairs sector. But there are factors that hold us back. Minculture continues to play a role in the distribution of budgetary resources, and it has limited human resources. It is subject to additional competences that are not provided for by the Ministry. So we asked the European Commission to conduct a procedural and functional audit of the Ministry of Culture. By the end of May, we will have the results of this audit. In addition, three experts will work as part of the EU Association for You project's programme of engagement at the Ministry of Culture from December 2016 to October 2017. They help to develop and implement cultural policies in accordance with the article of the EU Association Agreement on the promotion of cultural industries in Ukraine. I also want to mention a European tool to build institutional capacity like TAIEX. The coordination group on the implementation of the tool agreed to five applications from Minculture. In the area of initial art education, public policy and freedom of conscience, protection of the rights of national minorities, adaptation of legislation in the field of export, import and return of cultural values. In July 2016, the ICSROM National System of the International Centre for the Study of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values was operational, and the launch of this system allows the day-to-day issue of restoration, preservation of the Ukrainian Restoration School, and the introduction of new restoration technologies. Created by the National Bureau of the EU Creative Europe programme in June 2016. It has begun active work with the cultural environment to involve Ukrainian initiatives in international support programmes. The Bureau began and was established on the basis of the Ukrainian Center for Cultural Research. At the time, the center had the status of a scientific institution and this somehow limited its ability to work. Today, when the function of the centre, as well as other scientific institutions in Minculture, has been extended, the office has been recharged. We have successfully negotiated with the European Commission on the continuation of the "one euro" credit conditions of Ukraine's participation in the "Creative Europe" programme for 2017, and we have launched such negotiations for 2018. In particular, I want to mention the Ukrainian Book Institute. We have great hopes for this institution. We hope that its full-fledged work can turn the country’s publishing work into a cultural industry of European models, create a single book market in Ukraine, provide citizens with free access to all spheres of modern knowledge, and restore a culture of reading. It is extremely important that the draft statute of the Ukrainian Institute of Books was developed in the form of a professional environment, as it is essential that this institution be trusted. The Ministry is currently working on the structure and structure of the institute. I can tell you that in the very next few days, that week, a competition will be announced for the position of director of the Institute and for the acceptance of applications from candidates to the composition of its Supervisory Board. Finally, let me think again about the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Its creation, without exaggeration, is a historic step for Ukrainian culture. For the first time, the state has created an open source of funding for cultural and artistic projects, support for artistic debuts, including grants and scholarships. For the first time, the State has taken a step to balance access to the resources of the cultural and artistic organizations of the budgetary and non-budgetary sectors. For the first time, the Ministry of Culture will strip him of his uncharacteristic function of distributing funds among the players of cultural space. In fact, before the foundation was created, we had introduced a system of objective, rational, and transparent project selection. To this end, an expert council of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine was created from the selection of cultural and artistic projects to provide national financial support. The Council worked out the experience of such support. Now that the fund has become a reality, we can clearly say that we are finally putting an end to the Soviet approach when the issue of financial support for cultural action from the state budget was decided solely by hand. I'm confident that through the fund, the state will support bright cultural and artistic projects. And of course, I'm counting on the fund to have enough budget. For example, not least by increasing financial support, the state has been able to increase the volume of national film production, to contribute to the emergence of a new quality product that receives a series of awards each year in prestigious world forums. Yes, in 2016 Minculture through the National Film Agency of Ukraine provided an effective implementation of the national film production and distribution program. 35 films were made: four feature games, such as "The Goose Nest", "January-March", "Occupy", "My Grandmother Fanny Kaplan"; one short game film "Dim", four short feature debuts, nine animated, 17 documentaries. Two competitive film projects have been selected to produce and distribute national films. According to competitive selections, 82 film projects have been included in the production and distribution of national films. In addition, 80 national film certificates were issued, 20 licence agreements were concluded, and 71 new film subjects were registered. Also published was the "Catalogue of Ukrainian Films 2015-2016" in English and English, "Catalogue of Ukrainian Documentary Films 2013-2016" in English. Today, when the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine was adopted, for which you are very grateful, there is every reason to expect the emergence in Ukraine of an economically self-sufficient, sustainable and internationally competitive Ukrainian film and series production, because this normative act has adopted the best, most effective mechanisms and instruments for supporting cinematography, successfully tested in European countries. I use the word "European" a lot today because 10 years ago, the Council of Europe conducted an overview of cultural policy in Ukraine, and then experts found that there were half-reform and half-shift policies. Today, we are witnessing how cultural changes take place in the realm of real and radical change. We are grateful for the support of our European partners for these changes. Last year, we initiated a panel of experts on the Council of Europe's next cultural policy analysis of Ukraine, with a particular emphasis on the protection of cultural heritage and the modernization of cultural institutions and infrastructure in different regions. This review has already been carried out. The expert group that conducted it included representatives of the Ministry of Culture of France, Austria, Italy, Spain, and the director of the most authoritative consulting European company in the field of culture and creativity. In the near future, we are looking forward to the results of this review. This document will be an important guide for us, especially in view of decentralization. Because today, the Ministry of Culture is giving priority to improving the quality of cultural services in every community, modernizing art education, creating effective financial incentives for creative and cultural and artistic activities, and updating the cultural acquisitions of Ukraine. I am counting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the people's deputies, to continue to be partners of the government and, in particular, the Ministry of Culture in ensuring that these tasks are carried out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u6	Thank you very much. Colleagues, we now have 30 minutes to ask the government. It's not a faction question, it's a question from MPs. Therefore, those who would like to ask questions simply have a careful share in the record now. It will not be counted by factions, those who sign up will ask questions. Please prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to record a question to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please. I'm Alexander Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u7	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u8	I have a question for the minister of culture. I thank you for this meaningful report. When we heard the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the committee you presented in the field of culture, we listened to your suggestions. And you mentioned that there is a practice of providing medical social education subsidies, but unfortunately, we don't have a cultural subsidy. Although access to cultural values in various regions of Ukraine varies. We also have different countries where we can support or subsidize theaters, museums, any other cultural institution, getting funding from budgets of different levels, private money, the local budget or the state budget. How difficult is it to introduce such practices in Ukraine so that the greatest cultural gains are supported not only by the local budget where it is small but can be supported simultaneously by the state budget, subsidies and private funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u9	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for raising that question in the walls of the Supreme Council. Indeed, when I travel almost every week in the regions of Ukraine, the question arises, Why can the most important objects, especially cultural heritage, not be shared by the State, the region, the city, the local municipalities, to do so? I'm the one who touched it on the committee. And I think, in conjunction with the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, we should find this key to correcting this injustice. Because, really, somehow in this movement, culture is kind of following. Thank you very much. I think that together we will find this solution so that we can make so - called subsidies for the return of cultural objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u10	Thank you. Krishin Oleg Yuriovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished officials! I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, taking into account the critical energy situation, the need for energy security, security of gas supply and other energy resources. Last year, I and other deputies made a proposal for the establishment of the NATO Energy Security Centre in Ukraine. This proposal was not supported by the government in the 2017 budget. Taking into account the situation that has now arisen in the energy market, I have a request to resume this work and to include the creation of this NATO Energy Security Centre in Ukraine in the plan of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u13	Thank you. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished fellow members of the National Parliament, thank you for your information on the establishment of such a centre. I didn't have that kind of information, I'll see what suggestions were made. But I also want to say that we are now institutionally able to respond adequately to all the energy threats. What's more, we're working with international experts in this area, and in principle, we have a very clear security programme, including our energy independence and energy security. In fact, the only question is that we need time to implement the measures that are planned. But with the initiative you've been taking, we're going to study it more and let you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u15	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, it's a wonderful idea when we can include the money that's collected on customs, repairs and construction roads and their maintenance. That's a very good idea. And when we see that young managers, especially in the Plains region, are trying to add more to those indicative indicators and raise funds to direct the roads, unfortunately, from the Kiev DFS comes a check that clearly checks, blocks the activity. What is more, they direct the text to the Lutz Customs, to the Winnitz Customs office of businessmen who drive in and unload goods. I ask you to consider my request, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, and you, Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, to pay attention to the Road of the Town of the Plain of the Ages. It's an international road that connects with Belarus. It's very embarrassing out there, and it's embarrassing when our colleagues are here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u16	Thank you so much for your question. Well, first of all, in two months 2017, the redefinition of customs, which we can put on the road, is about 2 billion dollars plus. This suggests that customs began to be orderly. But I think that, as of today, talking about what customs works effectively, there are still enough serious hidden reserves. We think that March month is also going to be pretty positive, and I don't want to talk about numbers right now, but they're going to be significant. And customs should be checked from one foot to the other, because they're not, they're not, but they're not. And they take bribes, and they try to unscramble at the low cost of the goods, and all the rest. So the problem is to put the order in order and make every product that comes in, first of all, pay the exact right cost in the budget and everything goes absolutely transparent. That's what we're working on today. As far as the roads are concerned. You and I have made a decision, by the way, you didn't vote for it, unfortunately, we've allocated almost 15 billion dollars per road this year, plus 15 billion through the re-filement of the National Bank, which is defined by law. And that's why we're going to go against the fact that you didn't support it, and I'm underlining that your "Fatherland" faction didn't vote for the Ukrainian budget. This only means that you don't take part in this process, unfortunately. And we're going to go to repair and capital reconstruction of Ukrainian roads. 95 percent of roads are in terrible shape. And the Ministry of Infrastructure, from me and Ukrainetodor, was commissioned to work faster on Ukraine's roads. But what I want to stress is, if roads were kept normal in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, the road situation would be different. And our task today, in 5-7 years, is to bring about a system of Ukrainian ways, Ukrainians are worthy to drive on normal roads. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u17	Thank you. Teen Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u18	Yegor Soboljevo, please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u19	Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to answer the following question. You know, by the initiative of veterans of war for independence, and now by the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence, the connection to occupied territories has been terminated. However, we remain dependent on these Russian-occupied territories in many other infrastructure matters. What is done by the government to ensure, in particular, energy independence? The happy TEC continues both from the point of view of electricity and from the point of view of coal supply remains completely dependent on the occupying and occupied areas. What are you doing in the third year of war to remedy this situation? The same question applies to the supply of coal and atomic blocks from Russia. What is done to make Ukraine independent of this threat?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u20	Thank you, distinguished national MP, or perhaps not honorable. I want to say one thing, you said about Ukraine's dependence on the invader, I'm not going to say that we have unprecedented challenges to our independence, but that you've personally increased this dependence by your actions is a clear fact. I have stressed, and once again, that what you have done for the blockade of Ukraine is contrary to national interests -- both economic and energy. Unfortunately, we expected that the aggression by the Russian Federation on Donbas would lead to a complete blockade and a lack of access by Ukraine to its Ukrainian nadr. They finally did it, but only with your hands. What does the government do to bring about an energy system? We're making a complete substitution of the anthracite coal group and we're reducing our dependence on this coal every year. We are modernizing Ukrainian thermal energy and transferring it to the coals of group "G", brand "G". We're doing everything we can to increase the power and production of nuclear power. We're creating mechanisms that allow us to reduce consumption. We've been living for over 500 days without a drop of Russian gas in our country, and we're increasing the production of Ukrainian gas that belongs to Ukrainians. And this year, we're going to increase its output, essentially today, more than half a billion cubic meters, which is unprecedented in terms of gas production in at least the last decade. We're doing our job. I'd love to do it faster. It's more likely when there's an increase in the economy. You can do it faster when this economy is producing budget revenues. So that we can pay higher wages, raise pensions and everything. But when you force the country to give up one percent of GDP today, it means that hundreds of billions will not come into our country's economy. Of the hundreds of billions, no taxes will be paid. And I think it was irresponsible of you. Unfortunately, you've come to the point of what we call a pain point for our economy. But that's the way it is. Now my job and the task of the government is to compensate for this economic downturn, to replace it with economic growth. That's what I'm focused on, and I don't expect any help from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u21	Skuratovsky Sergey Ivanovich, handing over Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I am very unhappy with you, our initiative to raise the minimum wage to 5,000 dollars is what you call populism. That's what populism was called our struggle to raise minimum wages from 1600 to 3,200. You said it was populism -- we did it. A lot of people said that populism is our requirement to give free medicine to people who die because they can't buy these drugs. But we've done that, and since April 1, you've been running free drugs for diabetics, cardiovascular diseases, asthmatics. Now you call populism our demand to raise pensions for people who live on 947 dollars and raise wages. I would advise you not to make such unexpected, unbalanced, and wrong grades. Support our initiatives, and you will be successful. Don't stand in our way, against the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u23	Thank you for your questions. First of all, Oleg Valeriyovich, I want to thank you for the Government's initiative to raise the minimum wage for 3,200 dollars was supported by the Radical faction. [[Applause]] Yeah, I promised to do that, the coalition supported it, and the Radical faction also supported it. And that's why people today have a higher minimum wage of 3,200 dollars. This gave us an opportunity to raise our wages by 50 percent for educators, by 30 percent for doctors. I'm saying serious things today. Our next step is to raise pensions for Ukrainians. But that can be done when we are with you in this room, and I hope, in the near future, for the coming months, full pension reform. This will enable us to build a very important, very important system, which will allow us to build a fair pension system, and this will allow us to look at the size of pensions with you this year. But we know that this reform will also be an attack on the populists. I hope you won't attack her, and you will support her, and she will work for millions of Ukrainian citizens. As far as medicines are concerned, our initiative, which you have supported, and I am grateful for it, is that the Ukrainian budget, which provides 500 million dollars for free medicines for chronically ill people, comes into effect on April 1, 2017. It was possible, once again, when the Ukrainian Parliament, for which I am grateful to you, my friends, you supported these decisions, we can implement them. Hence, from April 1st in every corner of our country, there will be available medications for hypertensive hypertensives, for type 2 diabetes, and for bronchial asthma. As for the salary raise to 5,000, the minimum, my friends, I don't want 5, I want 10, I want 10, I want people to get a decent salary. But we need to look at the real possibilities of the economy and the private sector. Today, 3,000 200 is possible. Then, when 5,000 is possible, I will always stand by to support this decision so that this decision is absolutely positive for a working Ukrainian citizen. But all of your time, believe me, every day we work in government, we think about the economy, the economic growth that will give us the opportunity to come, including, to raise both the minimum wage and other social standards. You have to finally put a dot in the poverty of Ukrainian citizens, you have to give people the opportunity to live a normal life. It can't be going down, we have to go to the top of developing the Ukrainian economy and give it to the Ukrainians, that's my ideology, that's my position and I'm willing to fight for it. And all of us together, we're the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u24	Thank you. Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich conveys the word Igor Shurmi. Put the microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u25	Igor Šurma. Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich! I'm here to raise your favorite subject of health care. Vladimir Borisovich, the Opposition Block is asking you to stop looking for an original diploma on the higher education of the Minister of Health. On Wednesday she did not come to the parliamentary hearing to discuss the issue of health education reform and thus confirmed two things: she does not have a diploma, once and for all, a reform in education to expect nothing - two. But the question to you is as follows. On January 17, you said that you had begun political consultations on the appointment of a minister of health. It's been three months, you're putting in a candidature, and you're constantly commending the Ministry that they're doing something. You'll be able to thank us again. I would like to say that, according to the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers is approved by the Supreme Council. You've got a cabinet of ministers today that's undervalued. So, please, either there's no coalition, or they don't have a human reserve, or just all that burden has to fall on you, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u26	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u27	Because we've known each other a long time, since your death in Winnitz, and you've done a lot for medicine. But this burden falls on you undeservingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u28	Thank you so much for asking. We started consultations, and consultations are ongoing. As soon as the coalition is determined, I will do my duty. As for the parliamentary hearings, I think that Vice Prime Minister Paul Rosenko, who is in charge of medicine, is now commenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u29	First of all, I am very grateful to the profiling committee for initiating the very important parliamentary hearings that took place this Wednesday. And indeed, the subject of medical education must have been raised for the first time in this room. And on behalf of the government, there was a pretty powerful delegation here. And you know that I personally participated in parliamentary hearings. There were representatives: both the Deputy Minister of Health and the Deputy Minister of Education, and representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Economics, and so forth. And I want to thank you for a very constructive and interesting debate at the parliamentary hearings. I am convinced that parliamentary hearings are a form of communication between civil society and the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that they have been demonstrated effectively on Wednesday. So thank you to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of the government, for the excellent initiatives and for organizing these serious parliamentary hearings on medical education.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u30	Thank you. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Dmitri Kolesnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u32	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a question for the Prime Minister first, for Deputy Prime Minister Rosenk and for the Ministry of Social Policy. Why, in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and other legislative acts, the government has not yet complied with the ruling of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, which was adopted in February 2015, repealing the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the suspension of payments of pensions and social benefits to Ukrainian citizens who have remained in an uncontrollable Ukraine. The execution mechanism is prescribed in the court's ruling, and there is no need to open new banking institutions or import cash, just needs a credit card. to transfer funds that people can get in a controlled area. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u33	Dear National Deputy of Ukraine, I would like to make sure that there are a clear emphasis on what's going on here, including on the occupied area of Donbas. The Ukrainian authorities did not stop the social benefits in this area. And let's not repeat the road hysteria here on this subject. It was the occupations that took over the territory under Russian military control that ended the payment of Ukrainian pensions, the payment of all kinds of social assistance. There are no Ukrainian authorities there today, there are no branches of Ukrainian banks, and the Ukrainian authorities cannot fulfill their obligations to those who remain in very difficult situations. We are deeply concerned about the humanitarian and social situation in our territory today. is occupied. There is indeed a humanitarian disaster. There really is a social crisis. And today we're talking about what we are. Yes, these people have the right to receive all social benefits and pensions, but this right we can guarantee when they are fully implemented, including the Minsk Accords, when the territorial integrity of our state will be restored and when we can realize all our legal and constitutional rights. That is why our main task today is for those who move to a permanent place of residence in an area under the control of the Ukrainian authorities today to receive full pensions, social assistance, assistance to displaced persons, and so forth. And this is our guarantee. Those who live and live in Ukraine receive all the pension and social benefits they need. And we're working on it. Maybe there's a minister of social policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u34	Dear People's Deputies of Kolesnikov! In Ukraine, there is an order for judicial decisions to be made. Appropriately, a corresponding executive letter is sent by the State Executive Service, which prescribes the necessary actions to do so. As a minister, I personally saw neither this decision nor the executive letter. When he arrives, we will act in accordance with valid legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u35	Thank you. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear members of the government! Two questions. First. By fully supporting the liquidation of the tax militia as a racketeer, unfortunately, very often.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u37	I'm sorry. Alexi, something with sound. Yes. Oh! There's a card right there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear members of the government! First question. By fully supporting the liquidation of the tax police as a business racketeer, but today we have a situation of legal uncertainty. When will the Financial Investigation Service be established? What plans do we have in this regard? And the second question is, specifically, in the Odessa region. We have a completely dismantled bridge near Palanca today. Ukraine’s Besarabia joins another part of Ukraine today for two roads, one of which has been completely eliminated. We're told that repairs will end in August, but that's absolutely not serious, because it's a tourist season, it's life, it's harvesting and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u39	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u40	And a request. Vladimir Borisovich, take personal control of the repair of the road near Palanca. So that the transport link in the Odessa region and the connection of Ukrainian Besarabia, a beautiful geopolitical region, could be restored as soon as possible to another part of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u41	Thank you so much for your question, noble national deputy. I'm with the Financial Investigation Service. At this meeting of the government, we had a preliminary discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. We know that there are initiatives in Parliament too, and we want to unite them. And the government has decided to approve this bill in advance, to send it to the Reform Council. And we'll hope that in the near future, the reform board will be able to consider this and finally adopt the decision and send it to Parliament, to Parliament. That's very important and principled. We need to eliminate OPCSS's former, it's an economic police service. We need to get rid of the economic services, it's not their function. In fact, we need to complete the liquidation of the tax police and create the only professional high-quality financial investigation service. And replace this 3-4 service with one professional quality service. So we expect that in the near future we will agree on this. I've already initiated this question. And then we'll be able to catch up with you quickly. I'd like us to settle this issue for a few months. As for Odessa-Rani, you know this is a priority project for construction. Government and I personally paid a lot of attention last year to start building this road. Of course, we will continue to build it until the final completion. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u42	Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u43	Good afternoon! My question is addressed to the Minister of Social Policy, Mr. Andrey Revey. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that the very acute and very important issue of feeding the children of the Chernobyl family is in your ministry's perspective and that the first steps have been taken to address this issue. In particular, I got the answer that there's going to be an increase in the cost of feeding this category of children, and then I know that a monetary procedure is being developed. And I'm going to write my questions like this. First. How much will these costs be increased? The other one. When these costs are reimbursed, because the tenders have not taken place, and we expect that the food will not start before September 1. And the third question. Do you consider providing food services to children on the basis of a tripartite agreement, as was done by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u44	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u45	As was done by the Cabinet Order of 10.03. 17th year on the provision of sanatorium services for people with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u46	Dear Mrs. Irina, I want to say that the amount we're going to pay is what we're now agreeing with the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. I'm not ready to tell you now how much we're going to increase it, but we're actually going to increase it significantly. About how long will we be able to make amends? We will be compensated from the time we stopped feeding our children according to previous tenders. That is, during the period during which people are entitled, children have the right to food, during this period they will be compensated in cash for the cost of this food. And the third. You know, it's appropriate to make tripartite agreements when we provide services to third organizations, like sanatorium resorts. When it comes to eating, we give money to our parents. Parents can either make a deal on this money, or they can do it on their own. So in this case, the role of the third party of social protection management will end when they pay off the money to their parents. That's how we see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u47	Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u48	Please give my word to my colleague Alexander Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u49	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. I have a question for the Ministry of Finance. Minfin prepared and published a draft amendment to the Tax Code for the abolition of excise excise duties on tobacco products. Today, I want to point out that this is one of the stable sources of local budgets. And in particular, in Nizhina, at the heart of my district, in 2016, this tax led to the completion of a year without a loan on all kinds of budget expenditure. So today local councils are very concerned about trying to remove a stable source of local budgets. And the question was, did the Ministry of Finance actually calculate the possible negative consequences of such changes? And what compensation mechanisms for local budgets are envisaged in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u50	Please, it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u51	Thank you so much for your question, noble national deputy. I'm going to answer very, very briefly. I don't know where the initiative came from, I'm definitely the Prime Minister of the country against this initiative. Nothing will be cancelled for local budgets. We leave this excise and the local budgets have absolutely nothing to do with it. So I want to reassure everyone, all the local authorities and authorities, that no such initiatives will come out of the government. We support decentralization, we affirm decentralization, and we will do everything we can to ensure that no one claims to be local self-government. This is our principle position. Thank you for asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u52	Thank you. And one last question. Berezha Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u53	Please pass it on to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u54	Thank you. I have a question for the Ministry of Energy. Please tell me what is now being done in state-owned coal companies so as not to bankrupt those enterprises and block their accounts at a time when investment funds are being allocated, and when wage payments are being channelled, when they say that the lack of coal is being allocated to the development of the new lava, while the executive service is blocking the accounts and bankrupting these enterprises. What is done by the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u55	Before I give my word to the Ministry, thank you to the National MP for asking. In fact, you know that the government's efforts have been able to unlock accounts to pay off the wages to the Libyan miners who have been blocked by the court's decision since 2015. This is an unacceptable position when miners are blocked from getting their salary for the hard work they're doing so we've unlocked. I have a question for the Lviv Coal leadership: why did they allow the accounts to be blocked? I have a question for other state companies: why are they trying to block the work of Lvivcarbon and so on through the courts? We're dealing with this right now. What is the question? The question is that we need to finally form our own strategy for modernization, the restructuring of the Ukrainian mines and the whole of the coal industry, there was no such vision for today. For the next government, it is appropriate for me for the Ministry of Coal and Energy to introduce a strategy for the development of Ukrainian mines and a strategy for solving the problems that have accumulated. Because we've formed a billion 800 million to upgrade with you in the budget, but if we go that way to pay off those costs only on wages where coal is produced twice as much as it costs in the free market, that's the way to go. We need to change the working conditions of miners, increase their safety, and then we can get new technologies to get quality coal at normal cost, and then we can get everything else to pay for the work of our miners. The question is extremely important, very, very difficult, and has decades of inefficiency. So that's what Minneergetics do today. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u56	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u57	Dear Mikhailo Leontijovich! We've talked to you about this before. But I would like to point out that there are no problems in getting mines of funds that are earmarked for technical refuelling to date even in objects where there is some kind of conduct. In addition, the Ministry, along with state enterprises, has intensified its work on lawsuits and court decisions. The corresponding structural changes in the field are being prepared, and as Vladimir Borisovich said, the next government will be presented by the Ministry. I think that the proposals that have already been made will allow it to significantly improve the situation in the coal sector, optimize its structure, reduce its damage and gradually bring it to a level where it becomes interesting for external investors, including perhaps foreign investors, and will be fully a sector ready for further privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u58	Thank you. Questions to the government came to an end. Let us thank the members of the Cabinet for their participation in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Thank you for your fruitful and successful work for Ukrainian citizens. I have been asked by two factions to announce the break, but they are willing to replace it with a speech. This is the faction of Peter Dustenk's Block and the People's Front, and they're ready to replace it with a performance. I'd like to invite you to Barna Oleg's address. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u59	Praise Jesus Christ! It was well known that in the Supreme Council, a decree was made by the self-help deputy and the head of the Committee against Corruption, Jegor Sobolev, who had been suspended yesterday by the bill on amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act, which had been released from the submission of electronic declarations to members of the army and to a junior officer. The bill is very urgent and required us to understand those who are now defending our country. And if someone wants to focus their fight on corruption, I ask you to do it in general, not selectively. And if you want to vote in favour of the relevant bills to support the people and our military, I ask you to take different decisions that limit the military, the decisions that make and. The work of the military, and the determinations are similar to that of the military. Bills to push for special confiscation, bills to push for in absentia to punish criminals in Maidan. Therefore, in light of the circumstances in which we liberated them from the provision of electronic declaration, but did not understand the political reasons of certain political powers, there was a decree in the Supreme Council to stop this bill, I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to immediately put to the vote today at the Supreme Council the ruling of the self-help MP of Jegor Sobolev on the suspension of the bill that we adopted yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u60	Thank you. Really. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word. Indeed, there has come a draft Order on the Cancellation of the Voting Results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since March 23rd, and, indeed, according to the Rules, I must immediately put it to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now. Now the last name has been mentioned, and I'll give you a line. And we're moving on to Project 6172p. Please, Sobolev, one minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u61	I have the same appeal to all members of the Anti-Corruption Committee, including Oleg Barna. Let us not translate from a sick head into a healthy one. You and I adopted a law yesterday that, under the cover of the need to free us from making military declarations, first of all, obliged many public organizations and all who work with them to file a declaration, secondly, to contain direct contradictions in their standards. I warned you that you were breaking the law. The editorial that freed soldiers and sergeants was agreed in advance by the working group that I led, and there was no question about it. But you're your rights, you're your own, and your colleagues broke the law. It now contains direct contradictions with regard to its implementation. I don't know how Parliament Speaker is going to get out of this terrible situation. You're the one who put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u62	Thirty seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u63	You put the military's interests below your desire to avenge public activists and just spit in the bush, spoil anything, it's a non-professional job both at the Anti-Corruption Committee and at the Supreme Council Hall. I've offered you and I suggest you get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u64	So let's go to the draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Voting Results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 March 2017 for a draft Act amending the article of the Anti-Corruption Act. Colleagues, I would like to emphasise, since April 1, if we don't put the law into effect, soldiers will have to fill out electronic declarations. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Soboljev Jehora Viktorovich. Yegor, report by. Will you make a report or give it to the regulatory committee right away? Yegor Viktorovich? Prepare for the report of Pinzenick Pavel Vasilovich. Is there a room? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I have indeed warned you about this yesterday during the vote, and I would like to make it clear to everyone that they understand. We had and have been tasked with freeing our soldiers, our sergeants, our students from the obligation to make a declaration, and we have to carry out this task, and there are no people in this room, I hope, against this task. But yesterday, when the law was passed, which was well prepared, discussed with everyone, including the President’s Representative, who initiated the law, legal proceedings began. And they made the law in a direct and figurative sense contradictory. First of all, I really don't understand why the law that regulates the filing of a declaration of military personnel has included cleaners, paper sellers, any services for public organizations. Now all of them are required to submit their declarations according to the law adopted yesterday. If the goal was to destroy or corrupt the work of public organizations, I disagree. The second problem, which is not the result of idiocy at all. The law explicitly contains standards that conflict with one another. I quote specifically for people: "The persons referred to by this law as the subject of the declaration are listed in the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act in the order of the first declaration of the person authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government, in 2018, from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2017." For the first time, as I said, this law is obliged to make declarations to civil activists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u66	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u67	This standard refers to people who perform functions of state or local self - government and are expected to submit a declaration by 2018. But there's a second norm that does everything. Even more absurd. This standard requires that those who are to submit the first declaration do so by May 1 this year. In one place you were obliged to submit a declaration by 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u68	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u69	In another place, until May 1st of this year. The law contradicts itself, you know what happened. So I propose, along with my colleague Roman Seenuha, to repeal this law, to convene an extraordinary meeting of the council next week, and to adopt a good law to free the soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u70	The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u71	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The committee at its meeting on March 24 discussed the draft Decree (Registration No. 6172p) under the authority of the national deputies of Soboljev Jehora, Simeonha. The committee noted that the draft Law (Registration No. 6172) was considered at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 23, 2017, in the second reading, in accordance with part one of article 119, part one of article 120 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee informs that the draft Law (Registration No. 6172) with proposals that have been made by Ukrainian national deputies Crnovol, Briginec, with the clarification of Andriev's Dmitry Josephovich, Gerasimov Artura, was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in second reading and in general. "For" was voted by 268 people's deputies. According to a transcript of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 23, the National MP of Ukraine, Sobolev, as chairman of the Committee on Prevention of Corruption and the rapporteurs of the bill, repeatedly commented on the contents of the amendments and the text of the bill. In addition, National Deputys Sobolev and Semimenach did not file a written application for violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation under part five of article 48 of the Rules, but instead submitted a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for registration number 6172p. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee has decided to adopt a draft decision and to propose to the Supreme Council that it be decided by a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft. Colleagues, I have to say another thing. The main and perhaps the only argument relating to the Rules in the Explanatory Note to Decree 6172 with the “p” sign by the People's Deputies of Sobolev and Semenach is the reference to the violation of the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules concerning the compatibility of the Comparative Table with the second reading of the text of the bill adopted in the first reading, i.e. to which the rules are amended. I'm asking the entire Supreme Council and all the Supreme Committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u72	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u73	Next. This error occurs quite often. Further, pay more attention to meeting the requirements of article 116. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u74	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. I'll give all the factions a word who raises his hand. Treyakow gives the word to Barney. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u75	The bill is complemented by a list of individuals who, directly or indirectly, are involved in government activities or who are affected by this activity, or who are participating in competitions for the appointment of top managers, top government officials. I think that corruption risks even in these areas of public activists are quite high. But in addition to that, your incomprehensible opposition has already enabled us to understand all of the implications of the previous month’s hysteria surrounding the appointment of the director of the NABU. When one candidate was harassed, persecuted, and wrote to the deputies, the other you, certain pseudo-activists, including anti - corruption officials from the Supreme Council, were openly and abruptly lobbying. But our coalition, including a healthy group of Supreme Council deputies at the Anti-Corruption Committee, has done morally well and has put two worthy candidates to Parliament's consideration. That's why I'm talking to you. As a teacher, he is an effective teacher for his students when he is an example to them. Similarly, any fight against corruption, or anti-corruption, must first show the purity of their anti-corruption soul. But if they are afraid to do so, they question their purity or perhaps they are just puppeteers. That's why I'm talking to you. The fight against corruption must be complete. And selectivity in the fight against corruption is the same corruption. Therefore, I ask that the bill be put to the vote. Excuse me, Your Honor. In order to protect our military personnel from making declarations that they are unable to do now physically. And to ensure the viability of our army. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u76	Sergey Mikolaiovich, please. Oleni Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u77	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! Those, not many, are present in the hall! Guys, this is actually a unique situation. I want to explain again to all Ukrainian citizens what happened to us yesterday. The President of Ukraine, on one page yesterday, even on half a page, passed a perfectly beautiful, beautiful bill that he wanted us to release military personnel from electronic declarations. The bill, without exaggeration, amends one article into one. Before this bill, the MPs from the WFP, the MPs from the People's Front and several other colleagues submitted 32 pages of amendments! 32, colleagues! Where the amendments do not apply at all to military personnel, they apply to all other categories that they either output from the declaration or add. Who do they add? They add an amendment to Mrs. Blackwall’s amendment to the boards of supervisors, to public associations, to scientific institutions, to educational institutions, and to all experts working on anticorruption issues that do not receive funds from the budget. Who actually receive some grants for their activities, or they themselves finance their activities as public associations. It turns out we've already got corruption in the country, there's no corruption in Parliament, we've got a pure anti-corruption soul here, who said sir that he was speaking to me? There's no corruption in the Presidential Administration, no corruption in Kabmin, no corruption in the government? There's corruption only in the social groups and among those experts who are engaged in anti-corruption reform, who were writing those bills that were "prohibiting" those bills. But that's not even the funniest thing, colleagues. The funniest thing for me is that one of the amendments that has also been made, it relieves me of the responsibility for failing to declare all persons who have been released during this year until the date of entry into force of this law. They do not want society to see the electronic declarations of all those who served in the public service during this year in positions of local self - government. For example, Mr. Yatzenuk will be relieved of his responsibility for failing to do so. And this rule came out yesterday for the first time, and it was pushed by the voices of the Environment, by the voices of the BP, by the votes of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u78	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u79	And the voices of the People's Front. The new coalition called "Rotterdam Plus" doesn't want people to be held accountable for failure to declare, and they don't want you to see these declarations at all, but they want all the public experts who are helping us to carry out these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u80	Danilin Vladislav Yuriovich is handing over Amazanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u81	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, today we have another precedent when we consider the decision to annul yesterday's vote. Now from this rostrum, I don't want to support or deny the circumstances that happened yesterday, and I want to explain why they were happening, so that society can understand what was actually going on. In fact, for two weeks a working group was held under the chairmanship of the head of an anti-corruption committee representing the Self-Help faction. You know, there were a lot of national MPs in this working group, not just members of the anti-corruption committee. But unfortunately, I have to say that most of the rights, most of the proposals that were offered by other deputies, not members of this profiling committee, were simply-just rejected. But back to what my colleague really said, the President proposed a tiny bill that just had to be passed and freed our fighters from the declaration when they're in the trenches when they're fighting for our country. And then, dear colleagues, you wouldn't have to put anything in there at all, absolutely. But I have to say that even the editorial that was stressed by the head of the profiling committee, that it was agreed upon, was not just about military personnel in the trenches, not just. So if we're talking about equality of rights right now, about correctness and professional approach to this job. We should say that let us then accept all the remedies that applied to those persons who should not at the moment submit declarations or who simply cannot do so. With regard to the submission of a declaration by public associations. Of course, there is a contradiction. But, dear fellows, we must not forget the noble goal of this bill. Now let's not turn into a circus the procedures that took place yesterday, because there was no common position on the committee, on the working group. And that's why most of the lines that were rejected yesterday. the committee was rejected and, on the contrary, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u82	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u83	Hence, respectable colleagues should not be allowed to do so in the future. This kind of event that happened yesterday in Parliament I propose to the committees to work more effectively and then there will be no such trouble. And today, unfortunately, I have to support the rejection of this decision, because our military officers who are now protecting our country should not think about how to declare their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u84	Thank you. Teen Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u85	Leo Podlisecki, faction. Oh, I'll go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u86	Turn on the microphone from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u87	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I would like, first, to pay attention to the cynicism that sounds from the rostrum today, and the last day that this law was passed, when we're behind military officers and motivated, and we're doing absolutely dirty and black things for them. When we have a newly created coalition of BPT, the People's Front, the Opposition Block, and the Radical faction Party of Lalach, which supported the bill, they actually changed the concept, they changed the concept, and they brought out or complemented the military, and they did exactly what was unacceptable behind their backs. In particular, I would like to draw attention to a novelty that introduces an inexclusive and subjective approach to the list of people, persons to declare. For example, they systematically do, provide services to public organizations fighting corruption. Who gives it to them systematically? Even mobile services are a systematic supply. Are system operators or even other drivers of vehicles supposed to provide this? And most importantly, this bill is not working, because the standards that are adopted in the Final Positions conflict with each other. Consider: Declarations for 2017 are due by May 2017. And I'm very sorry, and I'm sorry, and I don't understand how a coalition can set up a Supreme Council head and oblige him to sign a bill that conflicts with where one rule conflicts with another. This is really unacceptable and impossible, and this is actually a submission to the Head of the Supreme Council. That's why I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. Can I help you? I address the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u88	Please give me 30 seconds to turn. I said, 30 seconds turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u89	I address the Head of the Supreme Council to look for myself. 30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u90	30 seconds, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u91	I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. Notice, please, the End of Positions. Well, it can't be written in one paragraph that the declaration is filed in 2018, and in the other, the declaration is filed by May 1, 2017. What do you suggest you submit to the President? Why cause the President to veto the bill? This is really nonsense. Thank you. And please support the cancelling of this data.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u92	Thank you. I'll be counting on the committee's professional work to give me this bill for signature. I'll look forward to professional lawyers preparing it. Now, colleagues, there's a lot of emotion. I'm going to finish handing over the factions, and then I'm going to give the lines to those mentioned. So now the Moses of the faction, the Papiev of the faction, and then the Replica, the Shurma and the Lazko of the factions mentioned. It's a deal, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u93	We have been witnesses of crocodile tears on the bill adopted yesterday. It is only inconceivable why they are barking, what it is to hide in anticorruption. If all are so honest, what is the question? And if they can't explain where cars, houses, cars, bank accounts to the grantors and others are coming from, let them go and not fool society. And about corruption. I know what it is to hide. For example, the former head of the Obelisk of Labunsk, a representative of a well - known faction, took and gave silent consent to the production of amber to persons who are anti - corrupt and who represent the faction of the same political power in the Olew district council. That's all anti-corruption. Be Honest to Ukrainian Society!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u94	So, from the Opposition Block, Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u95	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! I want to make it easy for you to explain what's going on right now. So there's a completely selective approach going on. That is, when the initiators of this decree adopted Ukrainian laws in violation of the Rules, in violation of all the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, it was convenient for them, they were silent, they applauded. Today, when their interests were somehow overtaken by the vote that took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they referred to the Constitution as the Rules and other things. There can't be that kind of selectivity. Dear colleagues, let's learn, I'm primarily addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's be clear about the Rules. And what the head of the committee said, 116, if we're adopting a 116-article rule for all laws, I'm absolutely in favour. If we accept one, not one, it's just an example of selectivity. Let us approach all laws equally and abide by the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u96	So three factions were named. Really, I'll give each of them a minute's replication, one minute at a time. First from the Opposition Block, Storm, then Oleg Lazko, then Barna. Okay? After a minute, we'll finish the discussion. Please, Igor Shurma, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u97	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, you know, I'd like you to be abstract from the life that's under the dome. You can think of people living outside this room, very simple people. And you have set a precedent for today when you put those people in a deadlock and become a hostage to these declarations. No one denies that we should all live by the declarations. I want to remind you that when the Soviet Union collapsed, there were no rich people. Only 25 years have passed, and they have some material possessions. And of course you have to read it. But I have to tell you this: Who is responsible for the disorder with the electronic declarations? The one who adopted the law at that time. I wasn't prepared for a material and technical base for this, or anything! All you had was a desire to shed the blood of your enemies. And now that you've become a hostage, you start looking for some opponents. You're responsible for what you've done, the base with the electronic declarations. Those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u98	One minute, Oleg Valeriyovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u99	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to draw your attention to the Constitution, article 67: "All citizens submit a declaration of their property to the tax inspection every year." That's why I don't see any problem when we voted yesterday to declare the fighters against corruption. If they have nothing to hide, let them declare it. And finally, with the self-help honourable colleagues who are spreading fairy tales lying about the presence of the Radical Party in the coalition, I would advise you to move your garbage all over Ukraine with which you fucked up all of Ukraine. In my home country, you're already trashed in guerrilla forests. For ten years, Sadowy is in charge of Lviv, you can't build a garbage factory. Choose me as mayor of Lviv, and I'll give you an order in the city. And you've trashed all over Ukraine and you want to go to the presidents to fuck up the whole country as much as our best Lviv. Stop the disgrace of Lviv and Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u100	One minute. Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u101	You know, when we talk about cynicism, I'd like to address you, ladies and gentlemen. This bill didn't come from you, it's a bill by the President of Ukraine, who really has the fate of the military. The second point, when we talk about the corresponding equality of all before the law, is in this bill and you didn't mention that the candidates for the Supreme Council, the local councils, are candidates for the Presidents who should declare. So this bill allows for preventive action to be carried out against corruption even when it comes to running for election. And when we talk about Ukraine and protection, I stress once again, vote for the special confiscation bill to take money from thieves like the past, the present and the future. If we want to punish Janukovic's regime, vote in favour of a bill to hold all bandits accountable for the Janukovich regime. And I'm asking you, don't talk about holes in this legislation, especially when you have a black hole and a black hole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u102	Thirty seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u103	A black hole because of your cynicism, your lack of honor and dignity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u104	Colleagues, discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. [[Noise Nodes]] There's no replicating, colleagues. Look at the Rules, there's no replicating. My colleagues, so I would like to point out to you that, in fact, this decree, which has been passed, does not allow the bill to be signed by either the committee or the Head. And now he's voting. If it is not supported, it opens up the possibility of signing. Members are requested to determine how to vote. And I am voting on the draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Results of the Voting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 March 2017 for the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (No. 6172-P). Who is in favour of this decision, please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:53]] For-46 The decision is not made. The decree is rejected. And, colleagues, we are now going under the Rules to the section on reading parliamentary queries. And I give the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heraszczenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going on record with you today because 300 requests have been registered. I'm going to try to read everyone so that they can go to the authorities, other executive bodies. And I'm going to continue immediately with the session for 15 minutes, until 12.15. And we have queries to the President of Ukraine that came from the Ukrainian people's deputies. They need the support of a request. And so I ask you not to disperse and vote in favour of the request to the President of Ukraine: from the National Deputies (Jurinec, Edna and others) to the President of Ukraine to ensure the rule of law in the state and to prevent the adoption of an adversarial act by the authorities of the State. I'm asking for confirmation of this request now. [[11:36:20]] For-86 86 deputies. Unfortunately, there are no suitable voices. We're still moving on to other questions. So, Alexander Gehrega, to the temporary responsibility of the minister of health, the head of the Hmelnick district government, for the transformation of the work and support of the Hmelni district organization of the Red Cross Society of Ukraine. Alexander Guerrega to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of measures to compensate for the risk of the population living in the 30km observation zone of the Hmelnicka AES. I'm sorry. Alexander Dubininin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the requirement of an effective criminal investigation into the punishment of the officials of the city of Kamyansk for inaction in the matter of the immediate removal of residents from the emergency homes on the avenue of Lenin Freedom 67 and Magovi Lane 4. Robert Gorvato to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to carry out border cooperation programmes aimed at creating and reconstructing checkpoints with the Schengen area. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Petovka, others) to the Prime Minister on the transfer of responsibility for air traffic services and the operation of the Uzhgrad International Airport. Groups of National Deputies (Chervakovy, Novak, others) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the return to the state ownership of forest land, located around the village of the city-type Kotsubin Kyiv region and the responsibility of the judges for making notoriously unjust decisions contrary to the interests of the State. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the establishment of the southern hospital district within the district of Balgrad and the Rhine region of Odessa. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the creation of an appropriate commission to study the situation that has arisen in relation to the psychological boarding house (closed type), which is located in the village of the Great Caribbean Saratsk district of Odessa. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers on the problems of electricity tariffs, which are used for outdoor lighting. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, to grant an additional grant to the Pulin district council of the Zitomir Region to cover the cost of salaries to the staff of the budgetary institutions. Groups of national deputies (Bathenka and others) to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to provide information on the methodology for calculating the tariff for natural gas distribution services and the size of the component in the distribution tariff structure that is envisaged for financing the installation of counters. Taras Batenka to the Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv District Administration, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, Head of the Commission on Road Management, Infrastructure, Land Relations Regulation, Territorial Administration, Area Planning and Architecture of the Lviv District Council on the immediate repair of road routes and rural roads of Zoločovsky, Pre-Industrial and Mikolaiiv regions, which are in critical and emergency condition. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the possible impact of some Ukrainian politicians on the operation in Debaltsovo. Sergei Rudika to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the immediate resolution of the issue of the recalculation of pensions to former officials of the internal affairs bodies of Kamyansk, Smilanski, Cherkaski and other regions of the Cherkas region, as well as other regions of Ukraine. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance to increase the amount of education subsidy to finance the educational establishments of the town of Smila Cerkaske district. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the Ternopil district government administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the road network of the town of Skalat Podvolocchi district of Ternopil district. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Head of the Ternopil district government administration for the construction of a water supply system in the village of Magdaluk Podvolocchia district of Ternopil. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the order of receipt of a certificate of inheritance, which was found in Donetsk or Lugansk areas before the start of the ATO. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the Regional Regional Government Administration of the Montenegrin Region for the increase in the amount of State budget grants to local budgets for the implementation of expenditure transferred from the State budget for the maintenance of educational facilities in the Czernovets region of Putil. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for the election of the Visnik United Territorial Society of State Subvention to complete the construction of the gas pipeline in the village of Viznik of the Visnik Region of the Cherniewec Region. Jury Solova to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing on the distribution of funds from the State Regional Development Fund for the financing of objects in the regions of Upper-Kosovo, Kosovo and Svetny region of Ivano-Frankow region. Groups of National Deputies (Solovia, Doubenko, others) to the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" to continue the route of passenger train No.702L Chernivci-Lviv to the city of Premysl. Vladimir Melnicken to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the acceptance of the proposals of the All-Ukrainian Society of the Deaf "UTOG" regarding the distribution of State financial support for 2017. Sergio Rybalka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of quality water supply in specific areas of the Dnipropetrov region. Oleg Osuhovski to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in the conduct of an investigative investigation. Vassil Nimchenk to the prosecutor of the Chernigiv district on the inaction of members of the Police Department of the Pristina Police Department of the National Police in the Chernigiv region in the conduct of a pre-trial investigation into a crime committed against a citizen of Eugene Posin. Oxana Biloz to the Director of the National Institute of Strategic Research, Director of the National Institute of Economics and Projection of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Rector of the Kharkiv National Economic University of Kuznetz, Rector of Odessa National Economic University, Rector of Ternopil National Economic University, acting as Rector of the Kiev National Economic University, Vadim Gethman, on the assessment of the impact of the economic blockade on the economic development and socio-economic situation of Ukraine temporarily occupied areas of Donetské and Lugansk. Yurya Bereza to the Yellowwater City Head for the construction and parking lot of the Yellowwater Special School of Education. Yurya Bereza to the Fifth City Head for the protection of the interests of the people of the city of Petihatka in connection with the repeated cessation of water supply in the city of Petihatka. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Education and Science on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine to improve the Basel School of Education of the Hmelnitsk Region. Andrija Shinkovič to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the deliberate undervaluation of the property value of the Ukrainian State Postal Service, which causes significant damage to the state, and the involvement of the guilty in criminal responsibility. The Arthur of the Palace to the Prime Minister on the unacceptable actions of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the refusal to grant State aid at the birth of a Ukrainian citizen who, through the actions of terrorists, gave birth prematurely to children. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Defence, Minister of Temporary and Internal Affairs, Director of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Protection of the Rights of State Aids and for the Assistance of Mikola Timothyev as a participant in the ATO. Ruslan Solvar to the minister of justice, temporarily acting as health minister for active state programs and public organizations that provide assistance to patients with cancer. Sergey Lechchenka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for a possible violation committed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the vote on the appointment of Nigel Brown as an NAB auditor. John Sporish to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the joint statement of the public organizations of the Tulkín region of the Winnitz region on the exacerbation of the situation in eastern Ukraine in the ATO area and the start of the economic blockade by the veterans of the ATO of the uncontrollable areas of Donbas. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to protect the rights and interests of natural gas consumers in Kiev’s apartment buildings. Alexander Suprunka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to ensure the calculation of natural gas in Kiev’s residential buildings. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Pension Fund’s government, for the purpose of determining the reasons for the refusal of pensions to former employees of internal affairs in Ukraine. Ruslana Demczak to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the release from military service of Mandrik Sergey Alexanderovich from the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with the termination of the contract on September 16, 2016, and the military officer’s illness. Mary Ionova and Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister to draw the conclusions of the inter-ministerial commission on how to analyse the efficiency of the use of funds aimed at restoring the infrastructure of the Donetské and Lugansk regions. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at preventing entry into the external markets of Ukrainian enterprises which are located in a temporarily uncontrolled territory through the territory of the Russian Federation. Groups of National Deputies (Lucenka, Berezi, and others) to the Minister of Social Policy on the activities of public councils Gregory Times to the Minister of Social Affairs for the housing of ATO participant John Buck. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, the Ministry of Ecology, the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council for Information Verification and, if necessary, the use of effective measures to address the people who live at the addresses of Lvivska 1, Lvivska 2, Fountain Road 88, Fontan Road 92/94 of Odessa on their concern at the beginning of the reconstruction of the Indoor Hotel in February 2017, which is located at the address of Lvivska Street 1b, and to ensure the safety of the public life, as well as the children who are studying at nearby educational institutions. Oleg Petrenko to the Attorney-General for the verification and proper response of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the facts of the illegality of the construction of the Sosniński microregion in Cherkasa. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration on the need for an objective review of the collective appeal of residents of the first hull of building 58 on the street of the Academic William Kyiv district of Odessa on the complex setup of the instigation territory, on the implementation of effective measures with good manners and on ensuring the safety of life for both children and residents of the given house in the spring of this year. Groups of National Deputies (Rybčina, Yvchenka, others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrnafta", the head of the National Shareholder Company "Naftogaz Ukraine" to verify the legality of the restructuring of individual Bureaus of Burial Works of Pat "Ukrnaft". Alexander Vilkula to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine about the number of families with children who are incomplete as a result of the death of one of the parents (parent or mother) on the current date and their pension insurance. Alexander Vilkula to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for information on the number of persons held by minors and children who are trained in the day-to-day form of education in general secondary education institutions, as well as vocational and technical institutions that receive a pension after losing a caregiver in the last years of 2014, 2015,2016, 2017. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the Ukrainian State Audit Service on the legality of the tender for the technical supervision of the repair of the European Street in Poltava. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of public hearings to take account of public interests in the development of urban documentation projects at the local level (outside of a populated site) in accordance with the current edition of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation. Paul Rizanenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the elimination of corruption risks in calculating the size of the cost-earning wage, which is taken into account when determining the cost of construction of buildings that are built with the participation of budgetary resources. Jury Boyka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the political persecution of the deputy of the Odessa City Council from Giganova B.V.'s "Resistance Block", the destruction of his property (inflammation of a car) and the absence of the results of the investigation. Jury Boyka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the political persecution of deputies from the opposition bloc and party supporters in Odessa and the Odessa region, the illegal activity of the leader of Automidan Odessa, Eugene Rezvuškin, to ensure an objective and impartial investigation of his crimes. Borislav Bereza to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine regarding the abuse of office by officials of the Gulf Village Council. Aunt Ostrickov to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the illegal actions of officials. Paul Kiskkar and Viktor Krivenk to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the redistribution of expenditure between budgetary programmes and payments to the Society with limited responsibility for "ABI UKIN" debt for the provision of licensed software to executive authorities in 2013. Alexia Lensky to Minister of Agrarian Politics and Food for State Land Inventory in the Žitomirsk Region to prevent abuse by residents of the Žitomir region of their right to free land acquisition. Victor Krivenk and Paul Kiskar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the persecution of Vasil Luto and other Ukrainian patriotic artists by law enforcement agencies. Groups of National Deputies (Kishkarya, Wesselova and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of the "Centre of Production" of Pat "Urzalznica" unfair and illegal requirements in public procurement. Boris Kozir to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for bringing an emergency section of the road of the state value of O-10805 to the proper operational condition. Boris Kozir to the head of the liquidation commission of the Public Shareholders Association of the National Shareholder Company of the Ukrainian Automobile Roads, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine in order to repay DAC's debt to Ukraine's Motorways and its subsidiaries in front of counterparties. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the distribution of the share of excise taxes between local self-government budgets. Roman Semenha to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the amount of taxes and the sole contribution paid by enterprises operating in temporarily uncontrolled territories. Jury Tymoshenko to the head of the National Police Department in the Ivano-Frankow region on the invocation of the responsibility of those guilty of unlawfully disposing of property rights. Jury Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate and ineffective conduct of criminal investigations. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to address violations of wages in institutions and organizations located in mountain areas. Leonidas Hamtza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the causes and consequences of the destruction of part of the Shulawa Walking Consulate in Kiev. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal removal of land from the city of Kyiv, Vineyard Strait, 4 and threats to the destruction of nearby houses. Jaroslava Dubnević to the head of the National Commission, which conducts state regulation in the areas of energy and utilities, heads of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Lvivoblanergo on the electrification of a new neighbourhood of individual construction in the village of Vikota Sambir district of Lviv district. Jurya Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the failure of officials of the Poltavian region. Excuse me, the Poltava City Council of Judicial Decisions regarding the adoption of communal property of housing funds and the State-wide target programme for the transfer of shelters to the property of territorial communities for 2012-2015. Oleg Petrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Cerkas Regional Government Administration, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food for the verification of the management of the Government Fisheries Agency of the Cherkas region. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Winnick District Council, Vinnicki City Head, Head of the Vinnicki District State Administration for the Dedication of the Land Area for the Parking Course near the Vinicki Academy Area Theatre of the Golden Key dolls. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Director of the State Enterprise "Departmentgeodescartography", Director of the State Enterprise "Vincial Research and Project Institute of the Land Administration", Head of the Vinicko District Council, Vinicko District Public Administration, Director of the Vinicko Regional Branch of the Centre of State Land cadastre, Head of the General Administration of the Dergeocadastre in the Vinnicko district of copyright on topographic and geodesic works, which is part of the projects of the land administration (manship of the State of the Land). Jury Lewchenka, until he was temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the nondelegation of the Surprising Central District Hospital. Jury Levchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to report a criminal offence committed by Kiev’s city chief, Klick, to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the non-optimisation and elimination of the internal educational institutions. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the provision of funds for the completion of the construction of the water supply on the territory of the Grand Council of the Land of Lubar district of Žitomir district. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the provision of material assistance for the operational treatment of residents of the city-type village of Novoguywinsk Zitomir district of Boyko Natalija, U.S.A. Groups of National Deputies (Jurinec, Podoljak, others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to allocate funds for the repair of the Lviv Children's Hospital. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of interstate multisectoral dialogue and the unification of parliament and government efforts for mutually beneficial full cooperation between Ukraine and China. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the system of academic scholarships for the purpose of a fair distribution of scholarship funds among the most talented students. Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to protect the rights of pensioners. Olesia Long to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of changes to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the decentralization of power. Olesia Long to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the state-of-the-art partnership. Igor Shurma to the director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the commissioning of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health in connection with the State’s signing of an inconvenient agreement with international organizations. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Health in the absence of a number of medicines and waste materials for the treatment of children with cancer. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2017 for the capital repair of the Lebedin-Chupachovka-Ochtirka road, which passes through the territory of the Labedin and Ohtyr district of the Sumi region. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appeal of representatives of the district council of Ohtyr Sutr district in respect of the continued compliance of oil and gas with the Ochtirkanaftegaz public shareholders of Ukrnafta land and environmental legislation, for the non-negative environmental impact on the inhabitants of the district of Sutsk, and for the promotion of the development of these areas. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities, on the need to make changes to the decision of the National Commission of Ukraine, which regulates national energy and utility services, which greatly increases the cost of connecting objects of generation and consumers to local electricity networks. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Vice-Prime Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing in order to provide assistance to ATO participants in the allocation of land for urban needs in the simplification of the process of production of technical documentation. Michael Bondar to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Lviv region, the head of the Ukratrans Security Authority in the Lviv region, for the non-sanctioned removal of solid household wastes from the city of Lviv in the territory of Radehovsky, Brodivsky, Bousky, and Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the head of the Kamyanka-Buzka District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Kamyanka-Buzka District State Administration of the Lviv Region, the head of the Bushov District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Brodiv District Administration of the Lviv Region, the head of the Radekhiv District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Brodiv District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the Bus District State Administration of the Lviv Region, the detailed information on the list of roads and the agreed plan for the implementation of repairs on roads of local importance, which is planned to be carried out at the expense of the district budgets. Oleg Dmitrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the pollution of the Oster River and the government's inaction in saving the environment of Montenegro. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the replacement of the allowance to travel by means of targeted cash assistance. Vladimir Aresonkov, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities for the establishment of a National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and municipal services of a well-founded value of electricity for the external lighting of the population sites for 2017. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of an emergency medical system in Ukraine. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the state and prospects for the development of the peat sector in Ukraine. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the accession of the Skolowski Beskid National Natural Park in the Lviv region to the Ukrainian-German project "Maintenance of Nature-Command Areas in Ukraine". Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for additional funding for the work of officials of the budgetary institutions of the Skolov region of Lviv. Dmitra Špenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on preventing the destruction of the financial autonomy of local communities and the removal of stable sources of income from local budgets. Michael Papiev and Yuri Boyka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Henprocuror for the robbery attack on the head of the Split District Council (Odes Region), selected from the Opposition Block, Felix Sigala; the use of measures to stop the repression and political persecution of members of the party. Mikoli Skorika and Yuri Boyka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the absence of the results of the investigation of the attack on the deputy of the Ananii District Council of Odessa District of the Mikoli Balana Opposition Block. Mikoli Skorika and Yuri Boyka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine on political persecution, the brutal beating of the Odessa City Council deputy from the Opposition Block, the secretary of the Alexi Jeremic faction; the provision of objective and impartial investigation into crime. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the granting of stable loans and refinancing loans granted by the National Bank of Ukraine. Victor Ostapchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of pensioners, disabled persons and low-income residents of a town-type village like Kyvsharovka Kharkiv County with apartment gas counters. Alexander Marchenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the need to rebuild the Bilocerkian cancer dispenser with the addition of the modern radiation therapy department. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the interest of citizens in the provision of social services to disabled persons and persons in difficult circumstances. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to review the calculation of the subsidy, coming from the area of the unified territorial community and the population of villages, villages and villages of the urban type that are not district centres. Igor Kotwiecki to the Chief of Roads in the Gitomir region on the condition of road traffic in the Gitomir region. Igor Kotwiecki to head of the Kharkiv Road Service in Kharkiv Region on road conditions in Kharkiv region. Ms. Oxana Korczynski to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the verification of the position taken and the possible exceedance of the duties of Major General Anatoly Petrenko, head of the Ukrainian side of the Joint Centre for the control and coordination of cease-fire issues and the stabilization of the sideline. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the murder in the village of Stratin in the region of Ivano-Frankow. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony and maintenance of a minor child that has a significant impact on ensuring its needs. Jacob Besbach to the Supreme Council of Justice, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai District to ensure the continued observance of the judicial safeguards. Oksana Bilozer to the Head of Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Private Bank Commercial Bank on the payment of contributions to the Public Shareholder Company "KB" Privatbank" to the family of settlers from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea who urgently need medical expenses. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the Kurné public education school I-II graduated from the Pulín district of the Žitomir region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need for the allocation of funds (subsidies) from the State budget of Ukraine to pay off debts for differences in tariffs for the provision of heat, water and water services to budgetary organizations and the settlement of the Kudavishten region of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide outpatients for the general practice of family medicine in Biloczerkovsky, Voddarski, Skurirsk, Stavishtenski, Tarostian and Tetian regions of the Kyiv region by ambulances. John Melnichuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Wynnick District State Administration on the situation of the closure of the Budecko U.S.I. walls and the Budecko Field Health Department of the Žmerinsky district of Winnick. Vladimir Gusak to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the provision of information on the availability of debt upon payment of wages to employees of state coal enterprises, subordinated to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine at 9 a.m. on 17 March 2017. Vitalia Cupria to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on a corruption scheme using municipal property for external advertising. Groups of National Deputies (Matkowski, Musia, others) To the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the need for support at the state level of holding the third All-U.S. Young Musician Competition "Frankian Hill". Dear colleagues! I sincerely want to read all the questions. It's not that simple. I'd like to ask you, I'm doing an important function for all of you right now, a little bit quieter to discuss queries. Thank you. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate examination and provision of hearing aid to a disabled child at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of ball joints, operational intervention with endoprostetics and post-operative treatment at the expense of budgetary resources. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the use of measures to repair the R-32 Regional Road Kremenac-Bila Church (km 246-286). Alexander Revega to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the use of measures to continue the construction of a residential building in Military City No. 1 in the city of Berdichov in the Žitomir region. Sergey Mishchenka to the Minister of Social Affairs of Ukraine on the critical situation surrounding the issue of the allocation of an additional housing grant for poor people living alone. Romana Macola and Ruslan Solvara are under the temporary responsibility of Ukraine’s Minister of Health, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the head of the Hmeljna District State Administration for the care of hemophiliacs. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the terms and conditions of employment of employees of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service, who have no special names. Victor Vuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the failure of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers to implement the provisions of Ukraine's Law on Foreign Ukrainians, as part of the approval of the State's targeted programme of cooperation with foreign Ukrainians. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of violations related to the embezzlement of Ukraine by officials of the State Geology Service and the nadar of Ukraine. Borislav Rosenblatt to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the immediate cessation of service offences committed by officials of the State Geology Service and the nadar of Ukraine. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine on the results of the verification of compliance with the Uzhgorod City Head of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the reconstruction of the heating system in the Nosov public education school of the I-II level of the Chernigiv region. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the construction of the capital repair of the Vorono and Magda streets in the village of Žuravac, in the region of Chernigiv, until the 150th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian scientist George Voron. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the urgency of investigating the attack on the MP of the Suma District Council from the Political Party "The Opposition Block" of Vladimir Philippeika, which was committed on February 22, 2017, and on the responsibility of the guilty. Maxima Burbak to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the propaganda of separatistism in the territory of the Cherniewec region. John Sporish to the minister of justice of Ukraine regarding the abuse of the office of officials and the smuggling of information into the State Register of Real Estate Rights. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status and prospects of reforming the rapid emergency assistance in Ukraine. Vasil Janicky to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the illegal activity of officials of the Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of the Administration of the State Executive Service of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Plains region. Vasil Janicki to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Plains District Government, Prosecutor of the Plains Region, Head of the National Police Department in the Plains region, on the destruction of large areas of the forest in the village of Polovy Volodymyrecki district of the Plains region. Oleg Kulinić to the head of the National Police Department in Poltavsk district on the limitation of large-scale and large-scale traffic in Zyńków district. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister for co-financing in 2017 for the reconstruction of the Municipal Hospital No. 1 of the city of Žitomir for the purpose of providing social guarantees and constitutional rights for residents of the Žitomir region. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" for the organization of a direct passenger connection between the central and western regions of Ukraine and the resorts and tourist facilities of Zakarpaja. Andrija Illenka to the Head of the Kyiv City Administration, Director of the Municipal Company "Darnicke Forest Farm" on the permanent appeals of the people of the Right District regarding the maintenance of the forest farm in good health. Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place in 2017 with the budget of the State for the accrued benefits and subsidies for housing and utility services in the city of Lozow, Kharkiv region. Sergey Kaplina to Henprocuror on the need for the release of the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the basic principles of the prosecution's activities. Eugene Balitsky and Yuri Boyk to Henprocuror for destabilizing the work of the Melitopol City Council of Zaporozhye; political persecution and pressure on members of the Opposition bloc; attacks on deputies and members of their families; destruction of property; and the provision of objective and impartial investigation into the crimes involved. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Finance to take into account the proposals made by the community of Nicopol in the Dnipropetrovsk region regarding the development of a project on the abolition of excise taxes on tobacco retail operators. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to take care of the list of rare (orphan) diseases, such as Cogen’s syndrome, which is set up by Christine Jumi. View the list of rare (orphan) diseases, such as Koden syndrome, which is set up by Christine Jumi. Alexander Urbansky and Boris Kozir to Henprocuror to delay the pre-trial investigation into the murder of Volodymyr Stassuk. Alexander Urbansky and Boris Kozir to Henprocuror for illegal land allocation on the territory of the Novosilkow Rural Council. Mr. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for guarantees of social protection for IMF pensioners. Dimitar Timchuk to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Director of the State Enterprise Krennergo on the supply of electricity to the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dmitry Timchuk to the Minister of Socs. Ukrainian politicians, heads of the Ukrainian State Service on war veterans and participants in the anti-terrorist operation on financial support from the State Budget for the Public Organisations of Veterans. Igor Alekseieva to the head of the Hmelnice City Council for information on the introduction of the only electronic ticket for public transport in the city of Hmelnicki. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of investigations into crimes in the field of service and corruption, as well as a special trial for 2016. Jaroslava Markevich until the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health to pay medical bills. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Lviv City Head about the satisfaction of the demand for city electric passenger transport of the Western Station. Groups of National Deputies (Brichenka, others) to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Approaching the Allocations for KPCW 2407050 "Operation of the State Water Complex and Management of Water Resources". Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for public hearings Olga Belkovy and Paul Rizanenko to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, heads of the Management of the Public Shareholders Association Ukrnafta regarding the provision of information on the rightfulness of the transfer of the entire property complex of the Public Shareholder Association "DNIPROAZTO" to the rental of the Public Shareholder Society "Ukranafta" and other information on the activities of Pat "Ukrnaft". Igor Lapin to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption in relation to the activities of NAMK in the e-declaration. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to combat illegal gambling in Ukraine. Yuria Derevyanka, head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, heads of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association Ukrnafta for the non-elimination of the Prikarpathic Storm Management and other structural units of Pat other structural units of the Pat "Ukrnafta" located in the territory of the Ivano-Frankov region, with the aim of preserving the existing number of jobs and preventing violations of workers' rights and interests, creating conditions for the stable functioning of the oil and gas sector. Irina Suslowy to the head of the Žitomir District Council on the non-admission of the end of the communal educational institution "The Zitomir Special Public Education School of the I-II International School of Class No. 1" for visually impaired children. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the head of the Ravenske District State Administration, the head of the Western Office of the State Audit Service in the Plains region, the head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Plains region on the procedure for the appointment of social assistance and the financing of the school's allowance for 1-4 classes of general educational institutions in the Volodimirec region of the Plains region. Dear colleagues, this is now a 30-minute recess under the Rules. And at 12 o'clock, 50 minutes, we're going to start with you on "Rizzle." Break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we're starting our work. I need to consult with you right now. Please, one second. According to the Rules, there is such a rule that the national deputies of Ukraine are dissatisfied. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am. Don't break up! But I consult you as a colleague. No, we haven't consulted yet. According to the Rules there is such a rule when a member who is not satisfied with the speech is recorded to state his disagreement with the request from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. For today, six colleagues have registered and submitted such dissatisfactions -- 18 minutes. I propose that we now make a recording of the performances in "Rose" and at the end of these speeches, I leave 18 minutes for the unsatisfying performances on demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u107	So, from 13 to 14 after insisting on the hall today, he's going to play "Rizzle." I'm asking you, I'm going to write a letter to the faction leaders to explain how to act in this situation, because I can't figure out where to take them myself for 20 minutes. Dear colleagues, I just had to publicly announce this conflict and the imperfections of the Rules and call on the national MPs to finally put into our sessional consideration a bill on amendments to the Rules, to vote that there would be no such collegiates. Well, because these 20 minutes, they're, in fact, there's nowhere to take them now according to our time. I'm announcing a recording under the heading "Distinguish." And right now I'm going to inform you that we're going to be working exactly up to 14 hours, equal to one hour. Please, National Deputy Nemirowski of Peter Prashenko's Block, your statement. Gives the word to Mrs. Irina Souslowy. Please, Mrs. Irina and, I take it, a support group. Please. I'm sorry, Mrs. Irina, if we have 20 minutes left today after all the performances under the heading "Rizzne," I will certainly give time to those national MPs who are dissatisfied with the answers to the questions. I'll do it, okay? All of it. Mrs. Irina, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u108	Good afternoon! Robert Horvath, 68 constituency, Zakarpatsk district, town of Uzhgrad. Today we would like to draw attention to the situation that has arisen with our countryman, Ukrainian citizen Edward Chikos. Edward Chikos is a native of the city of Uzhgrad, which has led one of the largest Ukrainian tourism companies in Africa and the Middle East for five years. On October 20, 2011, a citizen of Ukraine, Chikos, Edward Pavlovich, was arrested in the Arab Republic. The Arab Republic of Egypt is accused of fabrication. Edward Chicos was sentenced to the permanent deprivation of the will of an unconstitutional extraordinary court of security in Egypt without the right to appeal, unconvinced motives, and lack of evidence. During the trial, no witness was installed to confirm the charges, and the case was dealt with in an extraordinary court during a hearing that lasted several minutes. The situation is explained by the persecution of foreigners after the 2011 revolution and the biased treatment of them by the provisional government of Egypt. The victims of celibacy and xenophobia were citizens of the United States, Canada, Germany, Australia, and France. Later, all foreigners were deported according to President No. 140 of Egypt. As early as November 2014, the Egyptian Constitutional Court had declared all the decisions after the 2011 revolution illegal, but our Ukrainian is still sitting in the Egyptian prison of Lyman Thor. In December 2016, during the meeting of our faction, I asked the President of Ukraine to intervene personally in the situation of sentencing our citizen, Edward Chikosh, who became a victim of the authoritarian regime for life. It must be understood that the Arab Republic of Egypt is not a State party to the 1983 Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. Bilateral agreements on this with most countries are also lacking. Despite international cooperation, close trade and economic ties between the countries where substantial income is made up of our tourists — Ukrainians, by the way, Edward Chicosz began tourism in Egypt, TES TOUR worked under Edward Chikos for 5 years and began to develop tourism in Egypt, and Edward Chicos became a victim of svalivism and xenophobia, still in Egyptian prison. I want us to ensure extradition, to fulfil the conditions for the transfer of convicted persons, to accept them for punishment, as required by article 606 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. But that's impossible, because Edward Chicoche's sentence has never gained or will never gain legal strength. He has been behind bars under Egyptian Law No. 162 since 1958, which means that the sentence takes effect only after the authenticity of the President of Egypt. This has never happened in the history of the Arab Republic. Today, from this high rostrum, please, Mr. President, as a guarantor of rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u109	Let me finish one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u110	As a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, contact your Egyptian colleague, Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi, and do everything possible to bring back the citizen of Ukraine, Chicos Edward Pavlovich, to the Fatherland. Please consider my statement an official parliamentary request. If we don't all join Edward Chicoche's return home, we'll have one less Ukrainian. Thank you to all your colleagues. We're waiting for an answer. We very much hope, Mr. President, that you will help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u111	Thank you. I'm asking you to form this address as a parliamentary address. Send him to the President's Administration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please, next National MP Mishchenko. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u112	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I'm going to have a speech today, this is actually an upgrade to the Prime Minister, because unfortunately, starting on February 6, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation, which reduces the social standard on gas for the population of Ukraine from 5.5 cubic metres per square meter to 5. You remember that last year there were seven square feet [7 sq m]. One square meter. It's gonna be May 1st. 5. When the Cabinet of Ministers answered me, the minister answered why this was happening, and I'll quote you: "For the information of the regional social protection authorities, gas-efficient enterprises are back in the budget. 14 billion dollars of unutilized subsidies for heating." So 14 billion has been saved, and that's why we have to lower that. But I'm asking people right now, and I'm asking people, including the major MPs who are going to the county: did they see our pensioners, how did the lonely people winter this winter? They're wearing the last of their clothes, wrapped in towels and blankets. They've got 10-12 degrees of heat in their houses. In order to save on gas, many refuse to do so. I have in the Borispil district, in the Zgur district of the commission, which is supposed to give us everything. For the entire housing area, not just 48 square meters, is refused. Do you know what the reasons are? In the district of Zguriv, my grandfather was denied 90 years of age because, you see, his son is a priest. What is this refusal? Where it is written in the law that if you have a son a priest, you do not have to have the right to the entire housing area to receive this subsidy. That's why. I understand when in the cabinets of ministers, the Prime Minister is very warm, and when they don't go to villages, and they don't watch people winter, winter as they survive, it's clear that they don't know and see these problems. So I'm just telling the Prime Minister and the Minister to go not so far, here in Borispilla or Zgurovsky or in the Yagotin region, and see how people, or in Preyaslav-Hmielnicki, see how lonely people survive and how they freeze. Then the conscience may wake up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Irina Suslova, your speech is now. He is referring to Saul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u114	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Madam Chairman, I ask you to form my speech as a question of parliament. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! I would like to draw attention to the question that the residents and residents of my district have addressed to me, particularly the staff and technical staff of the budgetary institutions in connection with the situation, which is tragic, unfortunately, because of their financial security. For example, in Svetinski, Kosovo and the Highlands, in connection with the right, absolutely correct, step towards raising the minimum wage to 3 000 200, unfortunately, there was a virtually critical situation where the cost of the technical and service staff was sufficient for a total of 6-7 months. The members of the district councils have repeatedly raised this question. Little has been prepared and addressed, but unfortunately there is no response from the central executive authorities to this moment. I want to remind you that a month ago, from the high parliamentary rostrum and during the "hour of questions to the government," I raised the issue of the lack of a basic grant, which is allocated from the state budget to maintain budgetary institutions, is not sufficient especially in mountain settlements. Because the specificities of these areas indicate that they cannot be financed equally, for example, by a school or a hospital or a clinic in Kiev, and for example, by financing the same school or clinic, or by a hospital in mountain areas, in the upper reaches, in the upper reaches, or in Kosovo. Because everyone understands that the cost of maintaining these budgetary institutions is completely different. I would like to point out that, during the "hour of questions to the Government", the Prime Minister of Ukraine gave the Ministry of Finance an appropriate mandate to review the basic grant size and increase it to the mountain population ratio in order to ensure that staff and technical staff are financed at an appropriate level. However, I would like to point out that the state of affairs for this minute is not fulfilled. The Ministry of Finance has not reviewed the size of the basic grant to mountain areas and mountain areas. Therefore, on the next day, I appeal to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine to monitor the progress of your mission and to use all means and mechanisms of influence to ensure that the basic service grant, the maintenance of technical personnel, the service staff that performs important functions for the State in the mountain settlements in 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u115	Thank you. To make it clear that everyone is being punished in this story. Please, the next national MP, John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan. I'll just save time, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen of the people who have remained in the Hall, the honorable Presidium! Of course, today we were with you and yesterday we considered the Law on Prevention of Corruption. And that's fair. Because everyone has to write electronic declarations, they all have to be equal before the law. And I believe that everyone, in view of the fact that we already have this law, works, should show off his wealth. But at the same time today, it is essential that the village council members fill out electronic declarations. Well, it would seem like a village council member, if it's actually somewhere in the radius somewhere from the central cities, 100 kilometers or more, I know that the village head is asking rural deputies to go be deputies. A very different situation is, of course, the villages that are near Kiev, the villages that are near our Winnitz, the villages that are near the large district centers, yes, there may be rural council deputies even more corrupt than there is no one to know. But at the same time, we have to think about something so that these rural MPs don't have to fill out an electronic declaration that's actually far away from the central areas and all that. I think it's still a question of the future. I also wanted to turn from this rostrum to the minister of justice of Petrenko. I'm going to tell you that every time we talk in the hall about land grabbing, that's how it is. And so far, all the factions are saying, as they come out of here, that goes with the great oligarchs, the great holdings of land capture. And it's on Winnitzkin that we have a company called Cross and K, which also does everything to take away from simple pie farmers, even those pies that haven't ended up in humans. They're through so-called state registrars, and we know, Mr. Petrenko, that such government registrars have already been born on every corner. And so we have in the Cross and K there's a Jumpil, a Galjbian woman, there's a state registry. I'll tell you that they gave him some, maybe who knows him, how, how much he was bribed or not, it should be an investigation, but at the same time, even those pies that he registered before he was 20 or 22 years old, it doesn't really matter to him that they're still working. I think we should pay attention here. I think this should be my MP's request. And that's why I'm asking him, Madam Chairman, that it's for the Minister of Justice to be my MP's request. So what I'm asking is that you can figure out in this question, so that all of them are equal before the law, and the oligarchs, and all the land takers, so that they can also account for something, and not the more money they have in their pockets, the more they can buy people and buy them, and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u117	Please describe as a parliamentary request for a speech by the national MP of Sporish. And now we're inviting national deputy Yuri Timoshenko to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u118	Praise Jesus Christ! Colleagues, did any of you ever count how long it takes, for example, to adopt one bill in the first reading according to the Rules of Procedure? Count it, it's basic. And then divide the amount of working time by this number, and you'll see that ideally during a working day you can adopt a maximum of 20 to 22 laws in the first reading, and when the laws are in the second reading with hundreds of amendments. Nevertheless, every day we are given an order of 40 to 60, and sometimes more proposed bills. Why is this being done? Because some dark and murky forces in the secretariat, in the regulatory committee, have absolutely no ideological reason to stamp, figuratively speaking, that log with our proposed drafts to put ahead of what they need and push in as much as possible the actual burial of those they don't need. The simple question is why we are divided into simple and refined ones. Why some of my bills have been filed here in the Supreme Council for more than two years and are not considered as an example, the law that all atoctors are waiting for, the free right to sweep away atocs and members of the dead families, be sure to stick one car, one and forever. Next. Look, not so long ago, and this is almost a year ago, I passed a bill under number 4771, which is called "to establish the status of the Ukrainian language as the only national language." No one mentioned this in contrast to the fact that some recently passed a similar bill, so all the media shouted about it, and there was little to know about the boom that was being created here. And for some reason, it's not even what they didn't give up until now. They didn't even mention it. Why? Only because it says, "The statement is spoken from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, except in cases where most of the members of the People's Chamber have been given permission to speak in a different language." Mr. President, please state the order of this situation. You can influence us not to be divided into better or worse, let all laws other than your immediate ones be considered in order of submission. Stop this supreme corruption. This is the burial of one law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u119	Thank you. Mr. Jury, we're not giving you any extra time today to make a statement. Please give your next speech to the People's Deputy Barney. Please, Oleg Barna, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u120	Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! A special concern at the site is the appointment of heads of government, regional authorities, particularly in each area. So it's strange when an official who lives in Kharkiv or Kiev submits documents to a competition, they're somehow going to win, and they're going to be assigned to an appropriate position as head of management, far away from their place of residence, either in Ternopol or in Lviv or elsewhere. Thus, it can be plainly said that there are certain hidden corruption risks, since it is unlikely that the employee’s salary in the new office can cover the same expenses as those associated with moving and going to the family and paying for the corresponding rent of his new job. Is there not enough specialists in the regions who can do their jobs in a good way, knowing that the region is better? Thus, it would be possible to draw attention to such an example from a representative of the Antimonopoly Committee in the Ternopil region, who for more than half a year did not appear at a meeting with the head of the Ternopil district government. There is no relevant objection or case concerning monopolies in all gas stations, other consequences of the economic activity of certain associations, which requires significant interference with the activities of antitrust structures. The second moment I want to touch is when I speak directly to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agrarian Politics. The soybean begins, Ternopolska is an agrarian region, but the situation is that Ukrainian agrarians have become hostages of the internal political struggle for economic influence. As a result, three Ukrainian factories that produced mineral fertilizers have been laid down for a year. Instead, Ukrainian agriculture is forced to buy mineral fertilizer in Russia, in the aggressor countries, by funding their economy accordingly, because our land needs direct respect, it needs proper care for it. Because if you want to grow crops, we have to put something in the ground. On this point, I would like to ask the Prime Minister and Minister of Agrarian Policy, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, to finally hide their ambitions, some representatives who have an impact on the solution of this problem, and have begun to think more about Ukraine, Ukraine, Ukraine, the Ukrainian people and their responsibilities to the state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u121	Thank you for your time. Please, National Deputy Buglak, from the same "Peter Dust Block." Please, your performance. There's no National Deputy Buglak, let's move on. Ms. Oksana Prodan gives the floor to the National Deputy. Please, Mr. Derevyanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u122	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! What do we see in our room right now, how many deputies? Less than a few dozen deputies, perhaps less than a hundred deputies, with more than 300 national deputies registered early today. MPs don't go to work. Why are there no laws today, why are we not adopting laws today? Where are they all? These are the people the Ukrainians gave their voices to protect their rights, and today we see such disgrace in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. We live in a parliamentary-presidential country where we see such trends that the President is gradually usurping power, and Parliament is pretending that nothing is happening. As Parliament, we must take responsibility for what is happening in the country and adopt and protect the constitutional rights and interests of our citizens. The Will Party proposes to impose criminal liability for the absence of a valid reason for meetings of the Supreme Council and for walks if the number of walks is greater than half or committees or meetings of the Supreme Council. We have recorders who don't go to the Supreme Council at all, and here the question has to be very clear: either you work or go away! It is not enough that the main objective is not to plant as much as, in accordance with the Constitution, to obtain a court decision, a criminal court ruling in order to allow such a deputy to be released from his jurisdiction. Note that the absence of deputies leads to further "buttoning". According to the "Frequently" data, BP is 75 cases, "Revelation" is 52 cases, "The People's Front" is 27 cases. The Will Party also requires the introduction of Bill 2064, which also provides for criminal responsibility for "buttoning". Imagine: 75, 52, 27 facts are the facts that relate to the counterfeiting of the laws of Ukraine, those are the facts that apply to non-personal voting. We demand that these bills be put into the agenda, we demand that these bills be supported by the Ukrainian Parliament so that we can self-clean the Ukrainian Parliament, the MPs who don't want to work, go away, but you know very well that we have immunity today, that we have constitutional norms that protect the people's MP. So the only way is criminal conduct, that's the fact-finding, that's the verdict of criminal conduct, and absolutely, in accordance with the Constitution, the release of such a national MP. The Will Party also proposes to amend the Rules, which also provides for a fixation of the absence of deputies on committees. Because the vast number of bills that are important to the Ukrainian people today are not considered on committees because there is no quorum. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we demand the leadership of the Supreme Council to bring the daily Bills 6203, 2064 into order. And I ask your support so that Parliament can clean up and work effectively for the interests of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputy Buglak is in the hall, he gives the floor to the national MP Antonichtuk. He just didn't hear my call to leave the rostrum. Please, National Deputy Antonistak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u124	Good afternoon, people of Ukraine! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I want to start by mentioning February 21, 2014, when the Maydan Self-Defense Forces took control of the entire government district, under protection. When on the night of February 21, we cleaned up the Marian Palace. Mariana Park He couldn't get in at the time. I stood there whistling, there was noise, there was a lot of energy. The souls of our dead brothers wept. For a year and a half, it took me, a participant of Maidan, to enter the Marian Palace for the first time. Now. Mariana Park Now I go there regularly, every day. And what do I see? There I see a monument to the Bolshevik junta, which made an armed uprising in 1918. Who, when assembled at the Artem factory, hit the young Ukrainian People’s Republic’s Republic in the back, thereby diverting the armed forces from the Montenegrin direction to which Muravov’s call was directed, thereby gaining the Ukrainian People’s Republic. I want you to read the tablet, you can go see what's on this monument right now: "Eternal glory to the participants of the January Armed Rebellion of 1918 in Kiev who died in the struggle for the Soviet Authority." A year passed since we passed the Decommunization Law. In the heart of Ukraine, in the heart of Kiev stands a monument to the Soviet junta! Therefore, on behalf of the people’s deputies who have signed up for questioning, I request Mayor Kiev to dismantle the designated monument, develop a project, and install a monument on this site to the members of the 2013 - 2014 Dignity Revolution. Madam Chairman, please consider my speech a question of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u125	Thank you. I'd like you to define it as a parliamentary address. The request needs a different registration. And, please, the next one is the People's Deputy Livik. Passes the word to Krivenku. Please, Mr. Krivenko. And then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u126	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Tomorrow we have a very sad anniversary: the 18th year that Viacheslav Crnovola was killed. And I want to go to all of you and call on all of you colleagues -- national MPs who will go to major districts, organize teams, organize their political forces -- and go to Vijacheslav Maximovich's memorial boards, go to the monuments in the cities where they are. Because it's not just the National Movement of Ukraine, it's a Ukrainian hero who's proved in his life that he's a figure that can stand at the same level as Bandera, with Mazepa and with other Ukrainian heroes. I would ask you to honor him with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I wanted to thank you again for gathering over 300 signatures of the National Deputies and sending a letter more than a month ago to our Attorney General's Office. Because over three years ago, the court overturned a criminal case that was falsified, where it was written that it was simply a banal accident. The whole country knows that Chernobyl was killed, the Borispilla Court said it was. Well, it's an accident. And for three years nothing is done. For the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, 300 deputies signed an application requiring this investigation to be intensified. It's been more than a month, no information. I'd like to repeat once again what everyone knows is that there are materials, like they're getting caste. Four holes in the head! When the exhumation occurred, the skull was accidentally destroyed. We just let it in. That's it. That's it, yeah. What do you mean? Just let it in. There's materials on the safety pillows -- that were involved in the new Toyota car. There's a show. There are unique career landings of individual generals who are now in command of the districts in Zaporozhye, and before that they were the chiefs of the DAI district where the cars were passing through Chernobyl. So I would like to ask you all in the framework of the Year of Chernobyl, which has been announced this year, to help in your areas so that the streets in the cities are not yet; the boards, please discover where they are not yet; conduct school lessons, organize as they are now planned in Cherkaščina and honor his memory tomorrow, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u127	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Oleg Lazko. And then there's MP Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow MPs! Paradox, but there is no mention in the Constitution of Ukraine of Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian farmers. Ukraine, which once lived in the former Soviet Union and the half world, today has no respect for farmers or peasants. The Radical Party faction initiated changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, to article 41, where we propose that agriculture be the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine. Today, the authorities tell us that the land market is needed. What Is the Land Market? They want to launch latifundia here, transnational corporations, in order to decimate the land, so that Ukrainian peasants can remain batrified on their own land. That's why we've initiated changes to the Constitution so that forever, I emphasize, the right to land farming for farmers, Ukrainian peasants. In two days 174 Ukrainian national deputies signed these amendments to the Constitution that we are registering today. I think that these changes need to be considered immediately in order not to allow the land to be torn apart, because the land market is not for Ukrainian farmers, not for Ukrainian children, not for the Ukrainian State, but for the land market for transnational corporations that will come, soy crops, raps, sunflowers, they will quickly harvest and move abroad. As last year, 66 million tons of harvested grains exported more than 40 million tons abroad. And there's no cow in the village, there's no pig in the village, there's no social sphere, there's no kindergarten and there's no school. Therefore, we demand that we immediately vote, strengthen the right of tenure on earth to the Ukrainian peasant and consolidate this right in the Constitution of Ukraine. And then, these are requirements for government, for radical policy change to the village. First of all, support for animal farming, the development of a new law on the circulation of land, which provides that land renters must comply. It is essential that you rent land to be taken only by those living in the area so that taxes are paid only in the rural community where land is leased so that some of the money earned goes into the social sphere. And most of all, it's to raise pensions for 30, 40, 50 years in a cologne, and they've got copious pensions and ripped hands! That's why we're asking the government to raise pensions, raise wages for Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u129	Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. And then Matkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Those who stayed in the hall. Well, it's common for us, and for Ukrainian citizens, to see this number of Ukrainian national deputies. However, I am grateful to each of you for being here. Look. We had two plenary weeks in a row. And in fact, those present are summed up in these two plenary weeks. And everyone wonders, what have we done to benefit people, what serious problem have we solved for people? You know, when we approach this subject objectively, not even critically, but simply objectively, we have to say that we have not actually solved any complex problem during these two weeks. And that's the problem of everyone, both coalitions and opposition. It's a problem for all of us. We're misforming the order of the day. Here, even yesterday. Who prevented us yesterday to take the problem of displaced persons, to take all seven laws that are, to pass through and solve them in a complex way? We've only made three laws. And the chief 4794, we didn't get to him. Yesterday we started dealing with the problem of "Yushmasha," and we decided one, which is one law, which relates to the write-off of fines, there's a penny and other things to get out of the financial collapse. But they didn't solve the main question, the question for people, is 94 million dollars to pay people their wages. And so we don't have a comprehensive approach to every problem. There are virtually no laws from the government. When did this happen? At all times, at least 50 percent of the bills in the Supreme Council of Ukraine were bills from the government. Now it's a unit somewhere and somewhere. Now we're going around the county. I'll come to Cherniewec region. People ask me, "Dear ones, you've solved the problem of foreign registration cars. This is a huge problem for specific people. So they're in this kind of legislative air right now. Because for some reason, if the government doesn't like Law 5567, let them offer their concept. But in fact, they are people who have been wronged by the police. In fact, you know that more than half of these cars have already been removed from registration. And people say, let's pay 120 euros a year in the state budget. If I take official data and I don't believe it, it's unofficially more Ukrainian citizens and a million cars that are there. So people are offering 120 million euros in Ukraine's budget, which will allow in 10 areas to make roads. We'd make a decision by law to have civilian insurance, and that's all, and then they're full participants in the movement. So let's think about it, it's a million.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u131	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Please, Matkovsky, National Deputy, give me your word. And then the national deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u132	Madam Chairman, please consider my statement to be a parliamentary address to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Based on decisions of the Ivano-Frankiv and Ternopil district councils, 5 district councils, 35 city councils, rural councils, scientists, environmentalists on the prohibition of the construction of a cascade of six Uppernistrian GES, provided by the Hydropower Development Programme until 2026. I appeal to Vladimir Groysman to hear our arguments and to analyze them carefully. I have an answer to our request from the Ministry of Ecology, which clearly states that before the approval of this program, state environmental expertise should be carried out, and with regard to the construction of the Supreme GES in the area of the nature of the Dniestrów canyons, the position should be strongly opposed, since this unique place is part of the Seven Wonders of Ukraine and is a tourist home of Ukraine. Even the governments of neighboring nations have expressed this concern. We've also received a response from the Cabinet of Ministers, signed by Mr. Stepan Kubeva, saying that there will be a technical and economic justification before construction, which will be determined. According to the previously announced tender, 155 million dollars will be spent on government funds. I think spending 155 million dollars on a tech-economic basis -- a project that's no longer agreed by the community -- would be a waste of money. Also, our activists, along with experts from alternative sources of electricity, calculated the effectiveness of a six-GES cascade. So the program claims the total power of all six GES 390 megawatts and the annual electricity production of 710 million. 710 million kilowatts per hour. So imagine, he's talking about 1 billion 100 million euros in investment. This is a European loan. If you build a solar power plant system with this power and capitalization, it's going to be only 400 million euros, that's almost 3 times cheaper. The deadline is up to two years. Assessment is smaller than the failure of local communities to sustain the ecosystem. In terms of wind stations, calculation is similar to solar. The economy is 700 million government funds. This is actually an effective and qualitative alternative to the lossy construction of the GES cascade.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Andrew Lozov. And then he's Lubinets' national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u134	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. Don't hurt me! - Noisy night! The basic principle of a physician and a pharmacist who is sworn by Hippocrates. Now we see that, instead of thinking about how to do no harm, our government is merely damaging medicine, it is damaging the health sector. The so - called reform with the formation of the hospital districts only causes the destruction of local communities, threatens that many doctors, including professional professionals, will be out of work, and millions of Ukrainians will be deprived of their basic, constitutional right to health as a result of thoughtless reform. You see what's going on. In my native Equinox, three are formed to make up, instead of five, at least five circuits. It's a critical situation in Kharkiv County, where they've already stopped. It's a critical situation in Decay, in Cherchishka. In many other areas, there are dozens of appeals from local councils because people are lagging for this so - called reform. Then, after consulting doctors, the Radical Party, after receiving tens of hundreds of calls from local citizens, must form a hospital district after elections have been formed and held in united communities. It's the community, and it's people who have to define the boundaries of the hospital district, not the MINREGIONBUD, which isn't even the Ministry of Profiles, and why did they take those powers, and it's still harmful. The reform should only be carried out by creating an appropriate legislative base, which is now missing and clearly foreseen by sources of funding, many communities simply cannot provide a hospital where 200,000 citizens will be attached to service. For example, there should be at least five hospital districts in Bukovin in the Chernobyl region, they want to do four, and the basic threat is all in what? That's because millions of people, especially older people, especially peasants, will not be able to get there because we have a terrible condition of roads, everybody knows about it, and everyone is talking about it, but unfortunately this situation is being resolved very slowly, and people just won't know how to get there. Next. As thoughtless as today’s so - called reform with the establishment of hospital districts, professional doctors may be particularly unemployed in district hospitals, and therefore people without the right, without the ability to protect their health, and without the ability to contact another specialist, may simply be reduced by banishing experts on the street. And today our position, we call for the suspension of paragraphs 3 and 4 of Cabinet Regulation No. 932 on the approval of the procedure for the establishment of hospital districts for the work of the professional Ministry of Health of the full package of necessary legal and regulatory documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u135	Thank you for your time. Please, the Lubinetsk People's Deputy and then the Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u136	Good afternoon! Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, Major Electoral District No. 60, Donetsk Region. Colleagues, tomorrow marks the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the Ukrainian Security Service. So I would like to thank the entire Supreme Council, personally for everything that Ukrainian security officials are doing for Ukraine. And, really, I can say that if it wasn't for the TV show, my family would have been thrilled. So I would like to welcome you and say that with high professionalism, productivity, courage and courage, you have earned respect and recognition. Individual words of gratitude and respect to WBS veterans who have given much strength, health is not an easy task in protecting Ukraine. On the occasion of a professional holiday, I wish all military personnel, workers, veterans of the Ukrainian Security Service, health, well - being, and the inspiration of new professional successes. And let your daily life be happy, joyous, and just so you can go home from all the rotations and have families, children and our daughter Ukraine finally win. And so I want to tell you that in 2014 everything happened because of the fact that we had Ukrainian cities, the cities on Donetsk, the Ukrainian flags disappeared. And now, you know, for us the déjà vu, 2017, three years have passed, three years of war, but we're back in 2014. On March 22, a session of the City Council was held in Dobropilla, where at the end of the meeting, local MP Mikola Strepochenko raised a matter of concern to the locals: where the flags of the city were divided from the streets. And you know, it was surprising that Mayor Andrey Aksionov, a person who publicly expressed her positions and affections of the DNR-LNR and the Russian Federation, said that he was still in direct language, "He doesn't need these torn rags to make them major in Dobropil." Think about it: for three years, there's a war going on, and we have one of the mayors of the Donetsk region who, openly, at the session, claims that the Ukrainian flag is a ripple, that it won't return any Ukrainian symbols, and that the board of Goodwill is Ukraine. So if I take this opportunity, I want this speech to be like a parliamentary address. I want all of you national MPs to know that unfortunately, we have legislation that allows you to be in your seats of open separatists, honest people who advocate separation from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u137	Thank you. I'm not giving anyone today, Mr. Dmitri, so everyone can finish, I'm not giving anyone the 15 seconds they insist on. Monsieur, please. And then there's the Najem People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! I want to dedicate my presentation today to the challenges facing the Ukrainian nation and state this week. It all began with the fact that in the Plains, there was a "bourstein's national republic," and the roads, the railways, the people who were involved, the organized criminal groups that were engaged in illegal amber mining. And that would be impossible if they didn't have a political "creature," because in the Ravensky District Council, the faction of Fatherland, led by Michael Cuscheruk and his puppet, the head of Draganczuk, directly allocates land to controlled companies of the criminal holocaust. And it would be impossible if there weren't a variety of pelmen in this parliamentary room that covered them. At the same time, in Žitomirščina, the head of the district council of the former Labunska gives a silent consent to the allocation of land to companies of the head of the Fatherland faction in the Oleuvian Paradise, giving silent consent. And that's how they occupy Polisia, destroy Polisia, destroy ecology. And I'm putting full responsibility for the amber mess in Polissa on the "Fatherland" party that gets the money out of there. We received other calls yesterday. As a result of the terrorist attack, the diversion that took place in Balaklia in Kharkishte, when the most art collections in Ukraine were destroyed and the political killings in central Kiev. Question: How should we answer that question to the aggressor? I have the answer: We must support the struggle of the free nations, the nations that wage an armed fight against Moscow. Yesterday, Chechen rebels attacked the Russian security base. Six heroes died, but they took the lives of the invaders. They demonstrated that Chechnya is fighting and will fight. As Ukrainian national deputy, I express my support for all the peoples of the Caucasus. And I urge the Ukrainian government to provide political, informational, military support, because in the unity of the fight against the Kremlin is the guarantee of our victory. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of the nation! Glory be to the free ischeria!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleague, do you catch the Pokémons here or what do you do? Please, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Go catch Pokémons in the towers, please, not in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I would like to say today about the amendments that Parliament made yesterday to the Anti-Corruption Act on Electronic Declaration. The thing is, yesterday we really did a good thing and a very useful thing by protecting the military from declaring their wealth because it's a threat to them. But with this opportunity, some of our coalition partners -- specifically the National Front -- have made amendments that have hit civil society very hard. Sadly, though, this information is not the first and the new. The point is that this matter was specifically discussed in the office of the President of Ukraine. In fact, the idea of attacking civil society, namely social organizations working against corruption, came about there. Unfortunately, this information was discussed with the President, along with the so-called Strategic Seven, and that's where this idea was born. Moreover, such amendments have already been made to Parliament by the hands of other national deputies. Unfortunately, they didn't make it at the time, and now they've been brought in again. And we already see that there is a result. What does that mean? Well, first of all, it means that the President's team and his partners, who are blinded by the desire for revenge against civil society, have passed a bill that actually beats all over the public organizations that are going to declare themselves to be anyway. Moreover, all organizations that cooperate with them should also make their fortunes. This is the same civil society that opened the case for Inter-Igoria three years ago, revealed the case for the "highs of Boyka", after Euro-2012, according to Kurchenk, according to the scheme of Zločevsky, according to the scheme of Clovis. All of these materials have now been the basis of criminal cases that are now being plentiful to the authorities and specifically to the Attorney General's Office. And now the President has a dilemma. If he doesn't sign this bill by April 1st, all military personnel are responsible and have to sign the responsibility protocols. If he signs this law, he declares open war on all civil society. I know that there are partners in this room and there are MPs who were against it. I am grateful to Mr. Oleg Lášk, who also, I know, opposed us to attacking civil society. I am grateful to Andrea Parbia, who was against this and did not vote in favour of this amendment. I am grateful to other national MPs who did not vote. But the opposition block voted in favour of this, which was the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front. We invite the President to sign this bill now, perhaps, but to make immediate changes to this bill, by his decision to make it very quickly into this bill, which will change it and cancel these amendments, and so that we can vote it out here in the hall, along with Peter Prashenko's Block, the People's Front, the Radical Party, the Self-Help and the Fatherland. I think that's what we're voting on, but it's up to the President right now, he's got to do it this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u141	Please, Igor Lucenka. And then there's the national deputy of Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Igor. You pass the word, please, Eutuska. The watermelon. The watermelon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'm in charge of the meeting. Please, Eutusek and then Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u143	Thank you. Thank you very much, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u144	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. People's Lubinets, will you be speaking out of the rostrum now? Are you going to perform now? Please, National Deputy Halasjuk. I'm sorry, national deputy Eutuszek. It turned out that you had not been given the word. I was deceived. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was deceived. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u145	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party faction registered in Parliament a draft Law 6217 on raising the minimum wage in Ukraine to 5,000 dollars since October 2017. This is precisely the case where there is no point in discussing the substance of the bill itself and its necessity. Only ways to achieve this goal can be discussed here. The Radical Party faction has offered financial sources and a specific mechanism to raise social standards in Ukraine without additional IMF loans, without additional issuance of funds, through internal reserves, through restructuring of domestic government debt, overcoming customs smuggling through more stringent transfer pricing control and de-offshoring of the economy. All of this will allow a substantial increase in social standards in Ukraine. What does this initiative mean for the Ukrainians? More than 7.5 million citizens will receive an increase in wages. The salary increase of 2.5 million Ukrainians working in the budget institutions will be 10-20 percent of the extra that they will receive. That's plus 2 billion dollars of the military community coming in. Additional taxes on the income of natural persons. This is a reduction in the pension deficit. It's a massive detinction. This is a shadow output of almost a third of the wage paid today in envelopes in the private sector of the economy. All of this is in the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Dear colleagues, I emphasize that our economy, our gross domestic product, is 70 percent shaped by household expenses. I mean, when you and I make money and spend money in stores, in pharmacies, we pay for services, the economy goes up. When this doesn't happen, the economy goes down, and the government goes out with its hands open for new loans from the International Monetary Fund. We propose a radical change in Ukraine's economic monetary policy. Moreover, the increase in minimum wage is just one of the elements of the anti-crisis economic plan that Oleg Lashk and I and our colleagues have offered openly and publicly to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the Speaker of the Supreme Council. We did this quite openly, unlike the secret IMF memorandum that contains, including the requirement not to raise social standards in Ukraine. Today, the human capital in Ukraine has been repressed. We call on the authorities to lift economic sanctions from their own people and increase the purchasing power of citizens for social justice and economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u146	National MP Sporish gives the word to his colleague Krivenk. And then he's the national MP, Pober. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u147	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. First of all, I want to thank the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, which arrested 185 million redundancies belonging to the Odessites and which, nevertheless, the Odessa Mayor was not afraid of, and counted the broker company that sold her the premises for 185 million dollars. There's only one thing. Five months or six months earlier, they bought it for 11 million dollars. This is Mr. Kiwalov's assistant who works at his university, we're told, is teaching at a pulpit somewhere. In six months, 11 million dollars, 185 million dollars. And now they're making decisions for more than 100 million dollars to repair these premises. There's no garden line in Odessa? In Odessa, are all the hospital issues resolved at the reception center? Is it great that you're letting yourself get robbed like that? How can there be such a situation when, in fact, 300 million dollars per operation alone?Oh, my God! We also raised questions about stealing money from the land for the cemetery. Now, I call upon my colleague of anti-corruption and all other fellow deputies, Lechchenka, Mustafa Nayem, to take care of this issue, the Radical Party. We can't do this. The only one who opposes today in Odessa is the People's Movement of Ukraine. But "truchanov" was the first, the second stage, and a lot of power was there. Engineers are one of the most active. I want to thank all the brothers who worked there too. The time left, I want to thank those fellow MPs who supported the South German yesterday and the Fatherland faction, the Radical Party faction for their Law 5113, which, like Antonova, where my law was the same, broke the obligation. 'Cause there's two exits. Either cut metal, or still look for ways to transform these enterprises, their market reform, and preserve them. My law, 5693, is a wage law for Southerners who, in all my great respect for miners, are no worse than miners. All members of the Committee on Budgets signed, voted in favour of the bill. Unfortunately, there weren't enough votes in the room last night. Maybe the mobilization wasn't enough, maybe the responsibility wasn't enough, maybe the populism was too much. And I thank those factions and groups who have made a commitment that next week we will definitely resolve these issues. And the factory that still has 7,000 people working on a one-day job, where people are freed, and they're trying to take them across gray paths to Russia, because there are no rockets there, that they're going to be respected by the state. And we're asking the government to finally reform the missile-space sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the national deputy of Krivoshea, to whom his colleague, Mr. Pober, conveys the word. Colleagues, this is the last performance, because we're working until 2 p.m. today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u149	Good afternoon. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Thank you, colleagues, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw attention not so much to the question of how to deal with the issue and the condemnation, the condemnation of someone, but to the incision that we talk so much about the results of the work of the territorial communities. And all the MPs are pretty active about it. This is a position that is raised and quite actively stood by both the Prime Minister and the government. And as parliamentarians, we make very many decisions here in Parliament, we make the legal changes that are necessary. Yet there are problems, particularly in the Kyiv region, that there is no logical end to these communities and there is no actual creation of them. In fact, today, according to the data available on the Internet, only two territorial communities have been established in the Kyiv region today. I'm sorry that, in principle, the central area of Ukraine for today is located and the knitting of the rear. And so as a national deputy who works in the Kyiv region, I would like to draw attention to this to the head of the district administration and the head of the district council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a very important question, because, for example, in the Kyiv region of the Boguslav region, the question that I am actually raising about the creation of two territorial communities of Medwinska and Boguslawsk has been hanging in the air for over a year. Today, it seems that there are working meetings, meetings, and no results. There are decisions, there is a forward-looking plan, and there are no territorial communities. In fact, it's just a problem that, for example, only these two territorial communities that can become and will be, I'm sure they're losing extra funding for today, which we're planning, and here we're voting in Parliament for appropriate subsidies to support schools, kindergartens, in general, to develop infrastructure. And for today, I think that the territorial communities are one of the promising developments in our rural areas. And so I'd like to go back to the board of district council and district administration to immediately hold all the appropriate advice and to give a kickback, to get the relevant officials to do everything they can to get us to start an expanded plan in accordance with the approved forward-looking plan for the establishment of territorial communities in the Kyiv region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-24-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the national MPs who took part in the "Variance" section today. I would like to remind you that we have the Ukrainian national deputies who today have not been able to exercise their full right to speak out of the rostrum with regard to their dissatisfaction with the answers that have come to their parliamentary requests from other executive bodies. I would like to point out that we have just accumulated a lot of requests from national deputies in connection with the long break in our sessional work, as well as in connection with the special event held last Friday, this is a celebration dedicated to the century of the Ukrainian Revolution. Therefore, on the following Friday, those deputies who are dissatisfied with the answers to their questions will be able to speak. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the executive authorities to provide comprehensive, comprehensive answers to the requests of the national MPs so that we are less dissatisfied. Dear colleagues, let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. I very much ask you all to go to the constituencies, talk to the electorate, be open and have a week's work in the districts. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, April 4, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you all.
