ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u1	Good morning! Please take up jobs, get ready for registration. Colleagues, can we register? So I'm asking the national deputies to register. Please. [[10:04:39]] 354 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, on April 4, 1949, the North Atlantic Alliance, NATO, was established in Washington. The unification of free countries that successfully resisted the most terrible empire of evil — the Soviet Union. And so far, for Ukraine, which has been defending its borders for the third year now, the best way to achieve strategic security is through NATO's reliable shield. Our task is to make every effort to join the free nations united in the North Atlantic Alliance as soon as possible. I believe that very quickly we will celebrate this day together as full members of NATO. And let's welcome our trusted friends and partners to NATO's Creation Day. Welcome. [[Applause]] Colleagues, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I would like to stress, not the national MPs, but factions and groups. And I want to point out that we agreed in the hall that we're all recording the system to determine the sequence of performances. And so I ask all factions to prepare for the recording. I would like to emphasize once again that all the factions present in the room and the sequence of statements we define by recording. Ready, are you, colleagues? Please record for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Please record, please participate. Thank you, colleagues. From the "Fatherland" faction, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! I think it's obvious to everyone today that there's been a new corruption scandal in the country, and there's been a huge scandal. It is related to the fact that, according to our belief, an unprecedented thing was done at the hands of the President of Ukraine, the imposition of illegal conquests from all Ukrainian citizens, this, so - called, subscription to the gas network. There is absolutely no doubt that this is the President's arrangement with these clans, who in the shadow or officially possess the illusions and the entire natural gas supply system. They want every person, no matter how much they consume gas, to pay a fixed amount each month. It's a scandal. A scandal that has to be handled by the Attorney General's Office, if we have it, by the Ukrainian Security Service, if we have it, including the National Anti-Corruption Agency, if we have it. These are documents that clearly testify to corruption. People paid for their own connections to the gas network, and they blew the pipes themselves. In addition, during the Soviet Union, all the other connections were made, which the gas mafia has the right to take from people, from each family, a fixed tax de facto monthly, cannot. And so on Friday, as soon as it became known, our team publicly addressed the President, the Prime Minister, the head of the NCREKP, who is a business partner and puppetist of Dustenka, and who set up these rallies from the country immediately to cancel these things. In addition, we know that the Prime Minister's speech is to cancel the subscription, but at the same time today the Bill 6265, which legalizes this subscription, is put into order. This means that the Prime Minister is a sharer and a government. We have appealed to all the district, district, city councils immediately to the President, the Prime Minister, and to stop this unnecessary use of this so-called subscription. The Hustov District Council, the Suman City Council, the Prilyutsk City Council, the Ivanichov District Council, and many others have already made a statement to the President. And to this day, the President said it would stop. But this deception must be fought, and it must be avoided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u4	I want this subscription entered. Because the President's proposal is for subsidies to make this payment. This means the next corruption expenditure from the budget, which will then go to the mafia to pay off the bribes. We have to cancel this payment immediately, and the President is his responsibility, that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u5	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, with respect for the right of constructive opposition to the blockade of the rostrum, I will act out of place. I spoke to our voters yesterday, and they said, "Dear ones, we don't know how to decipher the Abbreviations of the NCREKP, FDMU, AMCA, NABA, NACK, but we chose you to Parliament, and you have to act to protect our interests." That's why the People's Front faction stands for categorically canceling the gas subscription. It's not a gas subscription, it's a tax on Firtash and Ljočkin, the former administrator of Januković from every community and from every family in Ukraine. Over 100 dollars will be paid there. I realize that this money is going to go to lawyers or to wealth and antigovernment media campaigns. But we're calling this off. This subscription. The second question is the State Property Fund. Why is the privatisation plan broken down for two years in a row? Why was the privatization of the Odessa import plant that made profits under the government of Yatzenyuk, and now after the claims of the populist Saakashvili, this was cancelled? The third question is the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Why was his inactivity a monopoly created by the company Tedis, which was a monopoly on the cigarette market, and in three years more than 2.5 billion dollars were issued abroad, to Russia, from which terrorist organizations in the ORDLO were financed? Why was it agreed to monopolize the Black Ople Energo for the benefit of the Russian oligarchs who voted for the annexation, the illegal annexation of the Crimea? That's why we demand answers to these questions and we ask the Henprosecutors to consider the proposal of the People's Front to enter the third party into the trial that will take place today in order to protect the state's interests in the lawsuit against Tedis. Dear head, we turn to you: we must show that Parliament is effective. Yesterday during the Conciliation Council, calls were made that an ineffective parliament should be dissolved, that elections should be held in turn. We understand that this is from an asparagus from Moscow that their curator, Medvedchuk, passed on. But we will also return the function of parliamentary control, that is to call these leaders of these organizations to a report to Parliament, ask questions, and when we get answers, we will make personnel decisions. Next: NAMK. We understand that the renown of this body to combat corruption in the higher echelons of power has been destroyed. They were destroyed by the personal haughtiness of their workers. That's why we support the government's decision to amend the NAM bill in order to order the system, and that 3,000 people who failed to submit the declaration on time would not be held accountable before the law for the inactivity of this body. So we make these changes, we vote -- and we change everyone completely into this NAM.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u7	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u8	We are grateful to our Western partners for having made a positive decision yesterday regarding the allocation of the IMF tranche. We understand that this money will go to support the national currency. On Thursday, we await the decisions of our Euro-Parliamentary colleagues in order to finally start the carnage. I remind you, the government of Yatsenuk, the government of Groysman, all of us in this room have done all the homework. And our citizens have the right to travel in Europe as citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to read the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I also report, according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party "Block of Petra Poroshenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the eighth call of 3 April 2017, on the election of the head of the Party's MP, "Block of Petra Poroshenka", of the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovic. Let's welcome our colleague, welcome Arthur. We wish him success and productive work. And from the Peter Prashenko faction, I invite Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u10	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, today I am addressing you for the first time in this room as the head of the Peter Prashenka bloc. First of all, I want to thank you for the trust that was expressed to me by the deputies of our faction. I want to thank the President of Ukraine for his trust and to say that this is primarily my responsibility. And I want to say again: responsibility. Now for the second question. As you know, yesterday, there was a meeting of the Peter Prashenko bloc, with the participation of the President of Ukraine, and with the participation of the leader of the independent regulator, I emphasize, the independent, Dmitri Vuka. There was a very serious discussion at this meeting about the recent decision of the NCREKP, which we are all talking about today. And I'm very glad that the President has heard the members of our faction, and we also have pain, and we want every single person to be protected so that no price rises can take place. And we've all heard the President's address, where it is clearly stated that such decisions, such socially meaningful decisions should be made only after a broad discussion in Parliament, after a broad discussion with the public, after a broad discussion with people and a dialogue with people, and for the time being a clear position of the President of Ukraine, a clear position of the "Peter Prashenko Block" and of every MP from the "Peter Prashenko Block" that there should be no price rise for the population. In addition, subsidies can be clearly distributed to any family that may even theoretically be affected by an increase of at least one copy. And in addition, we insist that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has been responsible for this responsibility for two years, and the independent regulator must take a concerted decision together so that the prices for the population do not go up by a penny. And as you know, this morning an official report by an independent regulator has already come out that they are suspending their decisions, that this will be confirmed at the next meeting, that these are now official documents. And I sincerely welcome that Mr. Dmitri Wolf has listened to the position of our faction's deputies, listened to the position of the President, and that will be considered in the next session. So I would like to say that this issue should not be politicized. And now to the second. Today, the key to us is an effective working parliament. We have a very large number of important laws to pass this week, including the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and transport laws, and very many others. So I think today that the question of subscription, the question of gas prices for the population, is solved, is not political. And any blockage today, it doesn't make sense why? Because we need an effective working Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Shipko Andry Fedorovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u12	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35 constituency, famous Cossack Region, the city of Nicopol, the city of Pochrov, and the region of Nicopol. Honorable national MPs, dear voters, are fewer and fewer than five hundred Ukrainians each day. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian nation is dying. In 93 we were 52 million, now 42, and it's not just numbers, it's the future of our nation. According to the United Nations, Ukraine holds 172th place in the world at birth, and in the last three years the picture has only deteriorated. The reason is many, and the result is one: Young Ukrainian families do not dare to bear a second or third child. People do not believe in the future, because the support of the state does not exist, but social, economic and political instability. And even that help that was taken three years ago. What do we need? We need a rebirth, a rebirth of the Ukrainian nation. And that's why our MP group is demanding to increase financial support for the birth of the first child, 67,000, 95,000, and 135 000. In addition, it is necessary to return financial assistance to care for a child under 3 years of age, to return free food to younger children, orphans, many children and single-parent families. Bill 6063, which was initiated by our group, was heard on the profile committee, it's supported. We've taken into account all the proposals made by the groups and factions of our Parliament. Dear colleagues, we have a unique opportunity to bring this bill into the hall, to vote and to support, to really support the Ukrainian nation, by doing a good job. But that's just the first one. Secondly, 75 percent of many families live outside the poverty line, and they raise 20 percent of our young Ukrainians. We need to support large - scale families. Social services need to know how a family lives, how a child lives, and how money is allocated for the child’s development and life. And the state must control social services that are both in front of the state and in front of society. And the main thing. Our nation needs the only comprehensive program of support for the Ukrainian family. And it's going to have a very simple slogan: "The Ukrainian family is three or more children." Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request from our team of the Rebirth Party to the Ministry of Social Policy for the immediate development of a state-wide comprehensive support programme for the Ukrainian family. And only then can we say that there is no Cossack species and there will be no translation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Wilkul's Opposition Block. Turn on the microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u14	Dear people of Ukraine! Until the government's immunity has been completed, there's a week left, a government that doesn't even have a real program of action. And he has to be retired. The people don't call the parties that come into the coalition their own names, they call these parties a common party of catastrophe. We need to understand what this authority will leave behind. First. A ruined economy. Ukraine's GDP has doubled since the 13th year, even in dollars from 183 billion to 90. Ukraine has joined the club of the poorest countries in the world. External debt increased by 20 percent. The bracelets dropped more than three times. The other one. Poverty. The average salary in three years even in the currency has dropped twice, the 13th year 450 dollars, now 230. Pensions are beggarly. Prices have risen several times. According to the UN, 60 percent of Ukrainians live outside the poverty line. Millions have lost their jobs. Third. Tariffs. The price of gas increased eightfold in three years. Inflammation is five times. Electricity three times. Four. Education, science, medicine have been destroyed. Schools are closing. Scientists are going abroad. At the level of vaccination, Ukraine is the last place in the world. During the past year alone, the population of the nation declined to nearly a quarter of a million. It's more than a town like Herson. Fifth. Danger in the streets. The impunity of radical groups. Colossal increase in serious and particularly serious crimes. Disclosure level is only 30 percent. The Opposition Block is the only true ideological opposition, along with millions of Ukrainians throughout the country, demanding changes of power. We're proposing a real plan for a way out of the crisis. Stop the war, activate the dialogue with Germany, the United States, with anyone who will contribute to the return of peace to Ukraine. To ensure a decent life and a decent job. In order to restore industry, we have submitted to Parliament a package of bills under the New Industrialization programme. We need to restore the economy and give people jobs, not sell Ukrainian lands for loans. Cancel the robbery tariffs. Raise the minimum wage and minimum pension, at least three and a half thousand dollars. It's not a printing press, it's an economic development. Stop falsifying history. One month later, the greatest festival was May 9, Victory Day. And this is Victory Day, because we are the descendants of the winners. And ensure the right to speak and to listen in the mother tongue. Read article 10 of the Constitution, which clearly states: “Ukraine guarantees the free development, use and protection of Russian and other languages of national minorities”. Only one percent of Ukrainians fully approve of the work of power. The government has, will be retired, and the Council will go to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u15	From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich. Cannot speak from the rostrum, the rostrum is locked. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The decision of the so - called independent regulator of NCRECR, and indeed independent of conscience, independent of common sense, independent of law! But dependent on Dusty, dependent on Roshenk and dependent on corruption! So this corrupt regulator's decision to get a subscription is, as in the famous story of Chipolino, an air tax! When Mr. Tomator introduces a tax on rain, then a tax on the cemetery, then a tax on you and I living in our own country. Declarations of power, today the President, yesterday the Prime Minister, that you're playing back, you're doing this for one reason because you're scared because you saw people's indignation, because you saw that people aren't so stupid that you can rob them. And you tell everyone who's speaking out against your robbery policy that we're Moscow's agency. You're not just a Moscow agent, you're a fucking fox! You're an agent of corrupts, robbers and bribes! You charge your pockets at the expense of the Ukrainians, agreeing with the oligarchus of Firthash, the Lionskin, it's a corruption plot for which they should pay the Ukrainians. Thus, the Radical Party faction blocked the parliamentary rostrum. I'm going to Julia Timoshenko to join our fight. I'm talking to Oleg Berezuk, let's go together, honourable colleagues, in spite of political contradictions, stand together, defend the interests of the Ukrainians, block the rostrum. Because we are demanding not only the annulment of the decision of the NCRECR, we are demanding the resignation of the Wolf and the corrupt composition of the NCRECR, which today serves both the authorities and President Dustenk. We demand that the state-owned municipal gas distribution networks that belonged to the state be returned to state property. Today, for many years, Firtash, Ljowczyn has been exploiting them for free. They receive tens of billions of dollars, they put them in their pockets at the expense of the Ukrainians. These gas networks should be returned to state property and serve the Ukrainian people, not the oligarchs. We demand the adoption in Parliament of our decree, which we registered, 6279, of a request to the Supreme Council, to the NCREKP to cancel the robbery decision on tariffs. I'm talking to my colleagues, Yulia Timoshenko, Oleg Berezuk, we have different political, maybe different directions, different rhetoric, but what should unite us is the struggle for the Ukrainians, the fight against the power that robs the Ukrainians. I thank Vadim Rabinovich, who joined the fight. I call on all of you to fight against the plundering policy of today's government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I see a raised hand. I want you to listen to me. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's said that a replica is given when there's an offensive expression about a person or a faction. I'll give you a line, but I'll keep going. Colleagues, I say, I'm going to give a line, I'm going to explain further when it comes to abusive speech. Otherwise, we're going to go into the infinite ping-pong transmission of each other's lines, and we're going to mention the whole list of names. And so I'm saying, now I'm going to give it up, I'm going to say the third time, put your hand down. I'll give you my word. But I still want us to agree together in this room. The Rules say "figurative expressions." I'll find an article and read it to you. Now I'm going to give you a replica and Timoshenko one minute, and the next one is the will of the people. Please, one minute, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u18	The "Paternal Party" was involved in the fight immediately after the adoption of the entire decision by the NCREKP. We're definitely asking that this so-called subscription be cancelled. We were able to raise district, district, and city councils to join the protest. To date, nine councils have accepted the President’s appeal. Today, 14 council meetings are scheduled. Tomorrow, 13 meetings will be held throughout the country. Sixth number 39 sessions, 7th to 19. And literally the whole country came up on our call. And we will definitely get the cancellation of this subscription. And we support all the political forces, all the political leaders who are fighting for the abolition of this totally corrupt subscription. Yes, Fatherland is fighting with everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u19	Thank you. And I will read the article of the Rules as they addressed me in the hall and ask everyone to listen to it carefully. So, article 51, paragraph 4. "If a national MP speaks abusively at the address of another national MP or MP (deputy group), the chairman of the plenary shall warn this national MP of the inadmissibility of such statements. National MP. the address of which offensive words have been made, may be addressed to the chairman of the plenary meeting requiring that a word be made available to the speaker." So I'm stressing that offensive words can be interpreted in their own way, but only in such cases will they be given the word for replication. Now, I give the floor to Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u20	Dearly Dear Ukrainian People! Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today we talk a lot about fighting corruption. The government budget spends hundreds of millions of dollars, and huge amounts of aid are spent by Western partners. 600 million dollars went to create NAMK, one site, an electronic declaration base cost 2.5 million dollars with the involvement of the United Nations Development Programme. But the scandals that now surround NAZK seem to have been done in vain. The second wave of declaration under all the laws of dramaturgy exceeded the first, and no work was done on the agency’s management errors. This is complete irresponsibility and even negligence, as hundreds of thousands of citizens working in the public service are at risk of criminal responsibility. The People's will MPs call on all parliamentary factions and groups to support our initiative, and to vote in favour of the introduction of an independent NAMR audit by example of an NAMU audit. The bill has already been registered in Parliament, and the relevance of this audit is such that even the head of the NZC has supported our proposal and agreed to an international audit. Yesterday, public information appeared that on such fertile soil the government had suggested that it should take priority action to establish a general declaration of the income of individuals by the end of this year. In Kabmin, it is believed that this will allow for the introduction of a tool to detinicate the economy and counteract tax evasion, but not after such a discreditation of the NAMK declaration. We can't bring together hundreds of thousands of declarations, you can only imagine what kind of gift is offered under the tree, for a second, it's 35 million documents we firmly believe that the idea of the general declaration of the income of the average citizens not in time even more is harmful to the full scrutiny of the work of the NAM and the normalization of its functioning will simply lead to a colossal point of boiling. We demand that the government hear us and give up such an initiative. With current prices and municipal tariffs that do not match income levels, the nation is driven to total poverty. And this does not stop individual officials, for example, from introducing new gas subscriptions. Colleagues, enough to test society for strength we're so warmed up that throughout the country people will go out on the square and the playgrounds, take out, and coalition, and opposition, and government and all, because there's no more desperate than national protests when people are brought to the brink of survival, to despair. Regarding the NCRECR. I am very happy for Mr. Vuka, who goes to the BPT faction and listens to their thoughts. I want to ask you when Mr. Wolf will listen to the opinion of the Ukrainian people and the parliamentarians. Yesterday, more than one faction declared that we wanted to hear the Wolf in Parliament and finally ask him where the structure of those tariffs came from and where the laws that prove the common Ukrainian were coming from.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u21	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u22	who lead a simple Ukrainian to begging. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u24	Mr. Chairman! Masterful colleagues! The introduction of the so - called subscription is nothing more than an oligarchic insolence and vulgar fraud. It's not enough that they stole a pipe that people built for their own money, that they're now in a hurry to use the public authorities for this pipe in the same people to take money directly from the roofed people, right in the pocket of an oligarch or two. This oligarchic accent should be stopped. But by whom? The government body that is to defend the Ukrainian consumer and regulate tariffs and prices today serves the oligarchs, not the people. So today, this body has to cancel its decision — once! The other one. The Minister's office is due today to file a lawsuit against this commission on accounting techniques, because this is fraud and crime. Third. This body must be fully rotated because this body has discredited itself as an authority to protect a Ukrainian citizen. Moreover, I want to tell you that he has already retreated: at 10:17 a.m., a decision has been made to suspend the operation of their creation order. about the launch of the subscription. But that's not enough, this disgraceful thing has to be undone. In addition to the fact that we must all stand here today and demand this justice, Parliament, pressing on the oligarchic circles, pressing on the national institutions -- Kabmin, NCRE, the Presidential Administration -- must work. That's why Parliament has to put in order of the day and vote on important bills that change Ukraine in the future -- this is the Act on Occupied Territories, the second is the Law on Inviolability. There will be no touching; there will be no oligarchic influences in Parliament. Third, the Anti-Corruption Court Act. THE U.S. can do millions of things, but if these things don't end with punishment, this state is doomed to an eternal "mouse collar": oligarchs against oligarchs, as if for Ukraine, but people will suffer. And lastly, the birth of political corruption is in the elections, so if this Parliament is ever going to go to the elections, and the early elections for the country is the destruction of the institutional state for the benefit of the enemy, it has to adopt a law on elections on a proportional basis with open lists. This is the problem of roses.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u25	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u26	This is the task of Ukraine's development. But there is today's challenge: an immediate demonstration of the repugnant oligarchic decision to impose a gas bill. This is fraud and an oligarchic insolence that crosses the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to consult you so that we can make a decision in this intense discussion. Thus, during the discussion of many factions, a proposal was made: To invite the head of the National Commission to Parliament, which regulates national energy and utilities. There was also an invitation to invite the head of the Antimonopoly Committee and the head of the National Anticorruption Agency. We can vote now. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the holding fund, I hear. We can now vote in favour of inviting all those officials to Parliament to have a discussion with them here, and to perform a monitoring function in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u28	I can't technically talk at when, because I need to just negotiate with them to figure out when they can come, if they're in Ukraine, and if they're in jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course. I mean, colleagues, is that a decision you're making? Roger that. Then, colleagues, I'll bet on the vote in a step. And we're the only time I'm going to agree, in the workplace, who and when can come, and on what day. We'll set that day of general meeting. Colleagues, if there's a general agreement, let's do the parliamentary control function, the more I've been handed over by the apparatus, the NCREKP has to report annually to the Supreme Council by April 1, the Antimonopoly Committee is due to report annually to the Supreme Council by April 15. And that's why I think it's going to be good and proper for Parliament to do its job. And I hope that this will relieve the tension in the room -- and we will be able to move to the order of the day that we actually have today is very active and saturated. So I propose to vote now -- 150 votes enough -- to invite the above-mentioned persons to Parliament, so that the head of Parliament can agree on a working day on which anyone can come from those leaders to report to Parliament. Is it accepted? Then I propose a vote on those proposals. Thus, in accordance with part three of article 6 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the proposal to be present at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities, Vuk Dmitr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u29	Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Vote! If there's 150 people, it'll be a valid decision. Vote. Please vote. Who's to be called to parliament? [[10:41:31]] For 203 Decision taken. What were the next suggestions? Let's see the factions. Next. In accordance with part three of article 6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to attend a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Terentiyev, Jury Aleksandrovič. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[10:42:15]] For 212 Decision taken. The next proposal was that, according to part three of article 6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I put to the vote the proposal that there should be a presence at the plenary meeting of NAZK head Korczak of Natalija Mikolayovna. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:42:57]] For 208 Decision taken. And the last one is the holding fund. Yeah? In accordance with part three of article 6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to be present at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:43:34]] For 216 Decision taken. So, colleagues, I'm going to explain in the working order on which day one of the above-mentioned leaders is due to come to the Supreme Council. And we're going to define maybe tomorrow, and maybe tomorrow will be a good day. After the ratification, maybe tomorrow we will. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, you can't hear anything when you're yelling. We'll work together, and within a week, I'll let you know when one of those leaders comes to the Supreme Council, to Parliament. Colleagues, so I want to emphasize today is an important day. I want to remind you that we have the first block of transport issues, but before that, the important law of Yuri Suhevich's authorship on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine. Also today at 4 p.m., at 4 p.m., we will move on to the decision on the House of Accounts. Visitors, four-hour candidates. And so at 16 o'clock, no matter how the day goes, let's move on to the question. It can last for about an hour. And then we're going to be able to look at 3 more energy efficiency issues and GHG. This is our plan for today. Whether that plan will have a perspective, colleagues, it is up to us, each one of us. And today, after the first bill, I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we can work without interruption at 12-12. 30. And I hope that this proposal is supported by all of us. I'm very counting on us to work productively, and we'll find an understanding so that all the factions can participate in Parliament's work, colleagues. And now we're moving on to the first issue of the agenda, this is the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine (No. 1170). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[10:46:21]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sukhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u30	- B.R. Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The proposed bill was registered long ago. A long time ago, the Supreme Council had to look into it, but the discussion stalled. We finally got to him. You understand this law in support of those victims of the totalitarian Bolshevik regime who gave their young life, health, gave everything in the name of the will and independence of Ukraine. There are few left, and we must support them. What's the matter? The pension allowance they owned was very modest. In 2008, the government passed the law and fixed a certain amount, well, for those who were in prison, in 54 bracelets, those who were in exile, 47 dollars. But the law was passed in June and entered into force from October. There was a crisis, and it started, and then no sums were paid for certain reasons. The prisoners did not insist on taking into account the economic crisis that gripped Ukraine. But when economic stability came, the prisoners began to struggle. They were not paid for something, they did not accept it. They went to the courts, they won. But the Pension Fund still refused to pay. In this law we don't want to compare, although they have the right to be and the pension payment should be the same as the old one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u31	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u32	- B.R. But we went down to get something. Hence, not 50 percent of the pay but only 25 who were imprisoned and 12.5 who were exiled. Twelve and a half percent. I'm asking you to support me. Because this is the category most followed in Ukraine. Everyone else has extras and much more.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Paccan Valeriy Vasilovich. Mr. Valerius. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Just now, Mr. Suhevich has sounded the contents of the bill. On February 11, the Supreme Council Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations considered the bill and asked to support the bill as a basis. It is noteworthy that the rehabilitated are now one of the most socially vulnerable categories. Reimbursement for a month’s indemnity or compulsory hospital leave, an increase in pensions for monthly life support will not cost much from the state budget. They are so meager that they cause righteous indignation among elderly people who have experienced political repression and are forced to seek the protection of their rights before the courts. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made to it. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine" and some other laws of Ukraine on the organization of payments to victims of political repression (registration: 1170), submitted by the national deputy Shuhevich, to be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, please, we are moving on to a bill. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions to discuss this bill. Please, National Deputy Wozniak of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear friends. In fact, not many people in this room are now paying attention to this law, but it's an important law, because there are not so many people left in our country who have stood to die for the interests of the Ukrainian State who for decades have disbelieved in prisons, victims of political repression. These people, unfortunately, even now in the 17th year after the fourth century of our independence, have remained despised. So thank you very much, Mr. Yuri Shuhevich, who is in principle standing up to protect the interests of this population category. I, myself, I might say, have been molded, raised in the brotherhood of UN-OPA veterans of the Volin Region, and I know these people, they're left with a handful of them today. But I think we should do everything we can to make this time, perhaps a small time that these people are living, feel the concern of our state and financially in particular. So I very much ask the people's deputies here to support this bill. I think it's a patriotic act, which is what we should repay to those people who have stood for Ukraine's independence in the past decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Alexander Abdullin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u39	. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u40	Passes the word to John Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u41	Dear friends, I call upon the entire House to support this bill. And without saying too much, I can say that this is a law on historical memory. The historical memory of the nation does not measure time for the people. It is a law on justice, a law on respect for people who were worthy of fighting for Ukraine, Ukraine in capital letters, Ukraine in the future, Ukraine in its own rightful place in the European family of nations. Let us support and honor this same handful of proud, powerful, courageous Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u42	Thank you. Colleagues, several factions have failed to register. I'm asking you to give Mr. Semensi two minutes in the same way from Self-Help. Then to Lozo from the Radical Party and then to Oleg Barney, please, he raised his hand first from the Peter Dustenk Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u43	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, the people who have suffered as a result of political Soviet terror are one of the truly unjustly socially vulnerable. And we must pay tribute today to those who have given up their years in the struggle for the independence of our country. The bill removes restrictions on the size and timing of such payments. In addition, today, the families of the dead politically repressed people receive no pension supplement. However, today in 2017 this bill also speaks of another fact that Ukraine did not regain state sovereignty in 1991 without recognizing the Russian occupation from 1922 to 1991. Because these terrible crimes themselves must be the responsibility of the Russian Federation itself, particularly financially. However, today, by correcting the mistakes of this Supreme Council's first cadence, we must not assume mistakes today because we are obliged by this Supreme Council office to recognize and respond to today's challenges, namely: to recognize Russia as an aggressor of the territory occupied and to transfer all financial and legal responsibility to today's aggressor, the Russian Federation. That's why we urge the session room, the Head of the Supreme Council, to immediately submit a bill on temporary-occupied territories that fully translates the full burden of responsibility into the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Badass.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u45	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. "And then there's the echelons, the black towers, The barbed wire of the phased camps, The edge of the sky is boundless. My mother’s eyes were burning with a candle. I was shot, cut, strangled. In Kangiri, Magadan, Vorkuti, I don't know where my strength is. To survive those trials," wrote Alexander Smick. And in fact, I would like to think, colleagues, that every one of us, this entire parliament in debt to these people, would not be a parliament, an independent country, if our nation were not independent, if it were not for the self-sacrifice of these people. And what do we see? For 26 years of independence, such a disgrace, this law has not yet been passed. And, of course, I urge you to support, at least out of gratitude to these people, not so many have left. There's no particular pressure on the budget, but this law corrects total historical injustice, this law really opposes 70 years of Soviet occupation destroying our national consciousness, trying to kill Ukrainians to understand that they're Ukrainian, and now we have to fix it. We should honor those people, risking their lives, health and freedom in the Soviet totalitarian system, resisting it, not fighting for retirement, but at least honoring them. I'd like to call, too, colleagues, so there's not much left of these people, find a way to visit them, say a good word, and thank them face to face, because we have the honor of living these heroes to live in an age. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barna of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u47	In all the times of our country, Ukrainian land has always been enemies who wanted to break our people and take over the land, and there were always heroes who would not let it happen. Yes, they were in the minority, yes, they were fighting against the system. And unfortunately, the State of Ukraine has given pensions to former encavedists and heroes who have so defended our country and the land from fascism as well as war veterans from the Ukrainian rebel army have not received such allowances at the state level. Although we are now gradually correcting this, and the people who have struggled with the repressive system of the steel regime, the Communist regime, which fought the famine, are now out of control. And this is a serious flaw in our system. So it's hard for me to imagine now that we've stopped honoring the heroes of Maidan, the heroes of the ATO, who defended the country from the criminal regime of Yanukovic. And this bill is not just a law, it's an indicator of the nation's honor to heroes. And this bill is a debt of Ukrainian power to the Ukrainian heroes who created this state where the existing power works. Thank you. The Peter Prashenko faction supports this bill. We have to repay the debt to our heroes. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all of them. No, one more minute, please, Mr. Melniczuk. Who are you speaking from? From the non-faction? From the group? From the group, please. Please come from the group for one minute. Come on, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u49	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. The bill on time and the People's Will Group will support the bill. The main reason for this bill is that those who have been robbed should not be subjected to violence in the war that the previous speaker has just mentioned. And another issue that needs to be raised, and the group will initiate the bill is the Soviet political prisoners who were sentenced to gunfire, who, on their transition to the state of Ukraine, replaced them with the death penalty for life imprisonment. Of the nearly one and a half thousand, there are only 75 left. They're just needed. review their affairs and rehabilitate those who have actually been put under pressure from crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u50	Thank you, my dear fellow! I want to go to the author of Mr. Suhevich's bill now. Mr. Shuhevich, during the discussion of the bill, several national MPs came forward and suggested that in the name of technical law, the bill should read "On the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine". You have a "in Ukraine." So I would like to draw your attention to this, as you can see, as we leave "in Ukraine" or "in Ukraine"? Agreed! The faction indicates that the author agrees. Dear colleagues, there is agreement that we are drafting a bill, and it will be read as follows: "To rehabilitate victims of political repression in Ukraine." We ask all those who are now blocking the rostrum to take up jobs, and we move to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u51	So, colleagues, we're done talking, we're moving on to making a decision. And I think we need to take jobs and vote to make decisions. And I am sure that no political debate can stand in the way of honoring and honoring the victims of political repression. There are many people in the hall whose families have been through these repressions. My family was sent to Siberia, where my father lived for almost 10 years. And I'm sure everyone in the family has someone who's been through these terrible trials. So let's forget politics for a minute. Let's take up jobs. And that's the right thing to do, and that's the right thing to do, and it's the honor of the people who went through the Siberians through the gulags that were unbreakable because they remembered that the most important thing is the Ukrainian state, which is the free state that they fought for, and that's why we're here today. So let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine and some other Ukrainian laws on the organization of payments to victims of political repression (No. 1170) on the basis of technical law. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote on the basis, on the basis. [[11:04:30]] For 258. 258, yes. Decision taken, colleagues. And I immediately ask, as we agreed, to vote in favour of cancelling the break at 12:30 p.m. and 12:30 p.m. Let us support and vote on this good experience. So I'm voting on the proposal to work without a break between 12.00 and 12.30 today. Please vote, and please support me to cancel today and Wednesday and Thursday between 12.00 and 12.30. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. I'm counting on your support, colleagues. Vote. Please support the cancellation of the three-day recess this plenary week. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:05:25]] For 197 Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm talking to everyone, colleagues. All the drafters who see their bills in the daytime order will not be able to pass them if we do not support this decision. I'm asking all factions to move away from the political debate on this issue. We demonstrated effective work last Thursday when we worked without interruption. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. I'm asking you, all the deputies, to take up jobs, and I'm once again proposing that the vote be lifted from 12 to 12.30. And I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Please vote and please support the cancellation of break 12.00-12.30. Colleagues, we vote! Please take up jobs. I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote. Vote for canceling the break. I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, stand by, please. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:06:50]] For 199 Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 84, People's Front – 61, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 4, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 11, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 3. Colleagues, I'm going to put this motion to the vote again. And I would like to address everyone: both the heads of factions and the heads of committees. When more bills are required on the Conciliation Council to pass in a day, this time is not taken from anywhere, it can only occur as a result of cancelling the break. So I'm counting on us to come back to that question and support it. Now we're going to talk about transport (this is a block of questions), and I'm going to ask you the first questions from this block. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act on clarifying certain powers of state to drive public roads (5386). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:08:25]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Infrastructure, Omelyan Vladimir Vladimirovich. Out of the way, please. You need to turn on the microphone. Put the microphone in the government's bed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft of the Ukrainian Roads Act on clarifying some of the powers of the public authorities to drive public roads (registration number 5386), issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to a bill aimed at harmonising and improving Ukraine's legislation. The Ukrainian Roads Act stipulates that the public administration of public roads has the right to restrict or prohibit the movement of means of transport, axle loads, mass or gauges that exceed the standards set out for them by State standards in the absence of appropriate special agreement. That is to say, the current standards of the Ukrainian legislation provide for workers of road operators to stop large-scale vehicles and to restrict or prohibit such means of transport in the absence of special consent carriers when they exceed the requirements of axle, mass or gauges defined by national standards. But according to current legislation, the public administration of public roads by general use and businesses, institutions and organizations that are part of its administration are not authorized to stop vehicles and check any documents from drivers or carriers. With these powers under Ukrainian Road Traffic Laws, the National Police of Ukraine, the National Road Transport Authority, the National Police and the State Security Service of Ukraine are responsible for controlling road safety during the provision of passenger and cargo services. Taking into account the foregoing, with a view to harmonising the rules of law in force and agreeing on the provisions of article 12 of the Ukrainian Roads Act in accordance with other acts of the same legal force in this area, paragraph 8 of the bill proposes to be deleted. I'd just like to get your attention. We now have a paradoxical situation where the trans-inspectors cannot stop the vehicle and they involve and distract the forces of the National Police. The purpose of these rights is to empower transport inspectors to stop the vehicle.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u53	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u54	Please support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u55	You're done, aren't you? The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please turn on Mr. Jaroslav's microphone. Mr. Jaroslav! Jaroslav Vasilovich supports the bill. Please proceed to the discussion. And please include: two for, two for, no, for the discussion, please. From the People's Front, Wozniak Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Vitalia Corchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! Please support the bill, because it gives authorities like Cruise Security additional authority on the roads. If we want to preserve our roads and build new ones so that they are European, what we deserve, we need to vote on the bill. So I ask everyone to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u58	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovitch is handing over Evtushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u59	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Today we continue to discuss the reform of our road economy. I'm going to remind you that these are our economic vessels. And because of the state of the road today, it also determines the depth of that economic stagnation, including. Today, we need to approach this area in a comprehensive way. And what we are discussing today is very good. What is a systematic approach? This is, of course, a number of bills. This bill, which we are currently considering, is a government bill. And despite that, the "Paternity" faction will support this bill. Because it is still suggested that the issue of the abolition of the right of a public administration such as Kravutodora should be restricted or prohibited by the movement of means of transport, axle loads, total mass or gauges that are above the norm. It's a normal bill. Then the proposed innovation is well - founded. Considering there's no authority in the Kravutodora to make such stops. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u60	Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! I'm not going to do anything about this bill. And may I have your attention, please? Just at the address of my public reception center and the city of Cherkashi, 307, office 201 sent a package of threats to my activities as a national deputy and a threat to my life and health. This activity, I appreciate such actions as a feedback from the head of Mr. Tkachenka's Czerka district administration, the head, the deputy of the Czerka district council of Mr. Polozov, as well as the mayor of the city of Złotonosz, Mr. Wojciekhowski. Now they are officially threatening my life and health. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask that you give an immediate commission to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, as well as to the Minister of Internal Affairs to protect my assistant, who is now in Cherkasa, and to protect my family and my family. And I want to tell these gentlemen that nothing will stop me from fighting the corruption you're leading in Cherkasa. So once again, I would like to stress, Andrew Volodymyrovich, that I request that we give appropriate instructions to the law enforcement authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u62	Thank you. I appeal to the law enforcement agencies to ensure that the situation is under the strict care of the national MP and a colleague. I now give the floor to Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. Turn on the microphone, one minute. And in a minute, we're going to vote, so I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u63	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. The proposed Law No. 5386, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was recommended by the Transport Committee of 8.02.17 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft law (registration number 5386) as a basis and as a whole. Please support the adoption of Bill No. 5386 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u64	So, colleagues, let's move on to making decisions. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. The law is simple but important to the field. And I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Roads Act to clarify some of the powers of government to drive public roads in general (No.5386) with the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, 5386 as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[11:18:06]] For 209 209. I'll be right back. I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall right now, and I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Hall and ask them to take up their jobs. So, colleagues, can we vote? Please, let's support the branch. And, colleagues, I ask you now to support the return to debate 5386. Please take up your jobs. So, colleagues, during the discussion, all political factions and groups supported the bill. Let us reinforce this decision by our vote. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act to clarify some of the powers of government to drive public roads. Please vote for the return. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:20:04]] For 223 Three votes. I see. I see, colleagues. Please, three votes. I'm asking everyone to come to work right now, put off the discussion for a few minutes. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act (number 5386). Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please support, please vote. [[11:21:18]] For 240 We're back. And now I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Roads Act (number 5386) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, vote. [[11:21:47]] For 236 Decision taken. Next: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding compulsory insurance for the liability of the carrier for the damage caused by life, the health of passengers and third parties (number 4642). And I'm voting on the motion to review the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, summary procedure please support. [[11:22:29]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite you to include the microphone in the report of the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Omelian Vladimir Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble national MPs! I would like to stress the social importance of Bill 4642 and the need for its adoption. With the loss of a national monopoly on passenger transport in Ukraine, there has been a significant decrease in control of both the quality of passenger transport services and the security of passenger transport. Some of these carriers, especially natural persons, are increasing each year as a result of an increase in the level of emergency on passenger transport. This bill is designed to improve insurance policies that will help to improve the social security of passengers and drivers through compulsory insurance for the liability of road, urban electric, railway, sea carrier, and inland waterways for damage to life, for the health of passengers, and for the health of third parties. Such a mechanism is one of the most effective and can protect the interests of affected passengers and third parties in Ukraine, as well as preserve the financial capacity of carriers and the world’s experience confirms this. In the last 20 to 30 years, low European states have passed laws on the mandatory financial responsibility of the carrier for damage caused to passengers by third parties. Today, insurance against accidents on transport is being carried out in accordance with a 1996 decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. A special feature of this type of insurance is that insurance premiums are paid, not by companies in the transport sector, but by passengers in motor vehicles, railways, and maritime transport. In addition, the specified type of insurance does not extend to passengers in urban transport by car, electric, metro, or other means. The need to replace mandatory passenger personal insurance from an accident in transport to compulsory insurance for the liability of a car, city, electric, railway, sea, and inland waterway is also caused by the fact that insurance payments in the existing form of insurance do not correspond to insurance payments in accordance with insurance analysis. An analysis of the insurance services provided in 2014 to companies subordinated to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine shows that in the context of mandatory insurance for passengers and drivers, the cost of transport accidents is extremely ineffective. In 2014, passenger insurance for transport accidents was listed by insurance companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u66	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u67	Thank you. 60 million dollars, and the insurance payments for 29 insurance cases amounted to only 283,000. The excess of insurance payments over insurance payments is 60 million dollars. At the same time, the Commission’s benefit is 41 million, and the insurance company has about 20 million dollars left. An alternative means of transport insurance is to move from personal insurance from accidents in transport to compulsory insurance for the carrier’s liability. The adoption of the bill has been another step to increase the social protection of Ukrainian citizens against accidents and to increase the confidence of society in the activities of insurance companies in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u68	The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Transport at its meeting on October 19, 2016, considered Bill 4642 of 11.05. In 2016. The project is designed for the purpose of moving from compulsory personal insurance against accidents in transport that are being carried out today to compulsory insurance for the carrier’s liability for damage to life, the health of passengers and third parties. This type of insurance should be an effective mechanism for protecting the interests of affected passengers and third parties and allowing the financial capacity of carriers to be maintained and in line with European practice. The bill contains a number of comments from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. In particular, the Committee considers that the shortcomings of the project need to be addressed: To avoid double insurance for passengers with compulsory insurance, it is necessary to exclude personal insurance from accidents in transport, to clarify the reasons for the carrier’s liability, to specify the amount of the fine for the absence of an insurance contract. In general, while supporting the idea of proposed changes and taking into account comments, the committee proposes that it be accepted on the basis of the first reading and that amendments to the second reading should be made in accordance with the needs of today. Please support and thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues, please support this bill number 4642 as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Please hold the recording. Take Igor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u71	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Peter Prashenko faction will support this bill. Accidental statistics on domestic roads are not comforting. During the period, there are about 400 road accidents, which have injured about a hundred people. It's every day. In the meantime, there is an increase in passenger traffic accidents. The fact is that many private carriers now appear on their own cars, and the existing practice of compulsory passenger insurance against accidents on transport does not justify itself. Insurance payments do not match insurance amounts, so passengers are in fact left socially unprotected after the accident. Instead, the worldwide experience of compulsory liability insurance proved to be an effective mechanism for protecting passengers. That's exactly what the bill was designed for. It is important to add that this is not only about motor vehicles but also about rail and maritime transport. Nor will this law apply, as the minister pointed out, to transport in urban transport only in urban areas. On the basis of what Mr. Dubnevich said to the committee's chairman, the Peter Prashenko faction will support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u72	Thank you. From the People's Front, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u73	Friends, the law, of course, is good, right, we will all be supportive. Thank the developers for mentioning the problem. But that's not enough. And I would like to ask some of the bills in the future to go on with this. Look, I do gazelles a lot. Imagine you're driving in a broken gazelle, on a fox wheel, a gazelle driver with one hand burning a papyrosque, another talking on a mobile phone, and he's driving, not knowing what or how. And we go and pray to God and suffer to get here alive. Only the irreversibility and severity of the punishment of these drivers can stop the disorder that they create by transporting dozens and hundreds of passengers, and we are addicts. We're all passengers. We are, you know, hostages of one and that inadequate chauffeur who doesn't even think about us, but thinks only how to take the most money out of us, make the most of it. And our security, our lives, is the last thing they think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u74	From "The Fatherland" is Eutusek. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u75	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, please note that this bill refers to the transition from compulsory personal insurance to an accident. and transport costs to the mandatory liability insurance of the carrier. So I'm going to say right away that the "Fatherland" faction is not going to support this bill, because the head of the Transport Committee has made a number of comments that need to be removed. We're proposing to send this bill to the subject of the legislative initiative, the developer is the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure, to change these innovations that have been introduced, because they can still lead to the fact that the tickets for these modes of transport, which are covered by the bill, will be increased. We need to control insurance companies that do not properly carry out their duties by choosing our Ukrainian citizens when they bring them money, trying to secure their lives, rather than thinking about how to fight them there or how to fight them. Improve their contributions and indicators. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction asks that the bill be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative to enforce these inadequacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u76	From Self-Help, Semenich, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u77	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Head! The bill proposes to move from personal insurance from accidents in transport to compulsory insurance for the carrier’s liability. Today's insurance payments. mandatory types of insurance are part of the cost of entrepreneurial activities in virtually all countries. A clear example of the need for legislative change is the fact that according to the Mini-Infrastructure in 2014, insurance companies' incomes amounted to about 60 million dollars. At the same time, insurance payments amounted to less than 300,000 dollars, less than half a percent. Fellows, let's face it, today intercity buses and routes are in a very critical state. Thus, perhaps today the only way to protect passengers in transportation is to provide for the carrier’s liability. At the same time, the bill proposed by Kabmin still needs work. First. It is not possible to define fully the new term "carrier" because of the absence of drivers, natural persons. Because it must be the insurance of any carrier's liability, whether or not he is a host. Next, the bill is prescribed, unfortunately, in view of outdated transport technologies. It doesn't have any modern rules for booking seats or getting tickets by electronic means, no Internet access to insurance in all modes of transport. It ignores the position we have recently adopted with you of the Single Electronic Ticket Act. There are also no rules on the possible application of public control, there are no requirements for features and procedures to monitor the availability of insurance contracts in carriers from the Mini-Infrastructure. Perhaps it is wise to create a single register to reduce corruption risks in such tests. In general, we call for support in the first reading, but it is important to prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u78	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. And I ask you to invite the people's deputies into the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall, please. Let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding compulsory insurance for the liability of the carrier for damage caused by life, the health of passengers and third parties, number 4642, just on the basis of a colleague. So you can make all the warnings and suggestions between the first and the second readings. So 4642 is the base. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:35:35]] For 205 Colleagues, then I'll set up. The committee. Then I'm going to put the next one, it sounds like this: send it to the committee to prepare for the re-first reading. Will such an offer be supported by a hall? So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the next sentence that draft Law 4642 should be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Let's support this proposal. Let's get together around her. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:36:33]] For 225 One vote, colleagues. I see. We'll be right back and I'll put it back. So I ask you to vote for the return to the vote: 4,246 to be sent to the committee. Colleagues, please take your seats and vote. I'm voting for a return to the vote, and then I'm putting it on the committee. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. And then I'll put it on the committee. I'll just put it on the committee, colleagues, just like we agreed. [[11:37:13]] For 224 Okay. Then I'll make the next offer. But we still have to go back to put any one in. Then I'll put the subject in place, then I'll put the subject in place. Come on. We'll be right back, colleagues. And I'm offering to go back to 4642. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:37:49]] For 227 So we're back. Now I'm putting it on the committee again first, right? Colleagues, we're not coming back, I see. So I'm going to make a motion for draft Law 4642 to be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. I ask everyone to unite and vote. On the committee for re-reading, please vote, please support. We're voting 4642 on the committee for re-reading. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:38:38]] For 232 Decision taken. Next in line is the daily draft of the Law amending the Law on Road Transport in Ukraine (for compliance with weighty or gauged standards and/or conditions defined in the permit to participate in road traffic) 4660 MP, D. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:39:23]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Corchik Vitali Andriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u79	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a revised draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act is proposed (for compliance with weighty or specific standards and/or conditions set out in the permit to participate in road traffic). The bill provides for the introduction of a shared responsibility for a car carrier, a driver of a transport vehicle, a freight forwarder or a commercial broker, a broker, a freight forwarder and a trucker or an authorized person for violating the means of transport established by the legislation of weight and volume. As a result of the revision, taking into account the comments including the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, the new draft provides for a clarification of the term "load forwarder", a specification of the rights and obligations of the carrier driver, a shipping dispatcher in part of compliance with the weighty or specific standards established by legislation when loading vehicles or transporting cargo. Processing of the drafting of article 60 of the Automobile Transport Act, which establishes the administrative and economic responsibility of the car carrier and the freight forwarder for violating the statutory requirements of the regulation. For motorists, it is obvious that trucks whose weights exceed the permitted standards destroy roadways, turning them into dangerous roads. And we can spend millions of dollars on road repairs, but they'll never be enough as long as the weights and the gauges are broken, and no one will be responsible for that. A simultaneous and equal administrative and economic responsibility for exceeding the standards of haberdashery is placed both on the car carrier and on the trucker or the person authorized by it, and on the freight forwarder, which is a double alert and excludes the transfer of responsibility to another person. The adoption of this bill will help all participants in the road transport market to comply with legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u80	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u81	and their activities in the legal field, improving the quality and safety of road transport, which in turn will have a positive impact on Ukraine's image to foreign investors. In addition, in keeping with the rules set by all participants, additional means of transport will be needed to carry out the necessary transports that will have a positive impact on the labour market. Everyone please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u82	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, Bill No. 4660 has been considered by the Committee on Transport and recommended that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading. By a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17.11.16, a draft law was sent for rereading. As a result of the revision of the comments, including the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, the bill provides for: clarification of the term “shipper”; specification of the rights and obligations of the driver (transporter), the shipper in part of compliance with the weighty or specific standards established by legislation when loading vehicles and freight transport. Processing of the drafting of Article 60 of the Automobile Transport Act, which establishes the administrative and economic responsibility of the car carrier and the freight forwarder for breaches of the statutory requirements of the regulation. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine supported the amended bill. The Transport Committee's decision of 21.12.2016 recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft law (registration number 4660-d) submitted for re-reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please support the adoption of Bill 4660D as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich of the People's Front, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u85	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. I think not only majors, but all MPs know how hard it is to cut roads, well, first of all, into the county. In fact, majors know that. And I urge everyone to support this bill. Indeed, I hope that such a responsibility will be placed on the carrier, who on the drivers will be able to resolve the issue of cargo, which is now relevant. In fact, when roads are repaired and powered by multi-toners that exceed cargo, there's 40 tons, 50 tons, and by destroying our roads, I think this bill is the right thing to do, and we're going to force drivers to follow the rules and standards of transport. Thank you. I urge everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u86	Colleagues, I've given all the factions a statement, no doubt. From Self-Help, Didenko Igor Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the self-help faction supports the need to control the roads, and we need to control the carriers and their cargo. But the bill introduces a new rule regarding the supplier’s administrative responsibility. We can't know how the sender's control technique is going to be implemented, and that's why we don't think it's an effective action. At the same time, we offered our Bill an alternative 4660-1, but we weren't counted. And we're proposing to do more sensitive items, control the automatic overload of the goods, and so we'll see clearly who's transporting, we can see registers of carriers and registers of fine violations. That's why the Self-Help faction proposes to return the bill to work, to join our experts, and then we will support the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u88	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, "The Rebirth Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the question of the quality of Ukrainian roads today stands extremely acute in the state, this applies not only to the roads of the locals but also to the roads of state importance. Roads are being destroyed not only because they are not quality repairs but also because they are overloaded by means of vehicles. So I fully support this initiative, the introduction of additional responsibility for exceeding orderly and weighty standards. But let's look at this problem from the other side, like what happens in the harvest, how can a driver control the weight parameters for the crop from the field? And even kilograms of excess is threatened by a fine of 34,000 dollars and one thing when the excess is a ton and another when it's 10 kilograms. Therefore, the bill can be supported in the first reading, but it must be redrafted for a second reading so that the extent of responsibility depends on the extent of the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u90	Thank you. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u91	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Andrei Volodymyrovich! You see that the entire faction of the Radical Party, your honourable colleagues stand and block the parliamentary rostrum. There is no truth in the feet, as we know. But we're blocking this rostrum because we're demanding that the decision of the NCRECR -- so-called counter subscription for Ukrainians -- actually, a robbery in the middle of the day of millions of Ukrainians. I'm looking at what I'm saying to my respectable colleagues, no matter what we're blocking, maybe you're waiting for people to come to Ukraine and help you make this decision? We demand today's parliamentary review of our draft decision to appeal to the NCRECR, requiring that this decision be annulled on subscription. We demand that President Prashenko resign the corrupt composition of the NCREKP and return to the state property the gas distribution networks used today free of charge by Firtash, Ljovczyn, the oligarchy, as much as you will try our patience.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u92	Now, from the factions, act. Three factions haven't been signed up yet. I'll give it to you. I will, but in a minute, colleagues, in a minute. In this order: Sold, then Melniczuk, then Gusak, then Evtushek. Okay. Please, Solda, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I propose that the entire House support this bill, despite its risk-taking standards. In the first place, in general, motor vehicles are offered the right of carriers to check the cargo on their gauges, on its scale. And it's allowed for carriers to refuse transportation, if what they've loaded into the car doesn't match, because it's in the contract. This was not the case before, and the carrier was always responsible for what had been loaded without even being able to refuse to carry it if the contract had already been signed. At the same time, there are rules in this bill that are responsible for the transfer of cars and vehicles to carriers, and to a shipping carrier that is not normal, I think you need to review the size that is laid down, but in general the bill needs to be considered, and in order to continue to work on it, I propose that everyone be supported in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, it's melniczuk Sergei, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u95	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. This bill really cancels some of the laws and exposes corruption in the work of carriers, and that's very true, but we still have a lot to do in this direction. And the People's Will Group supports this bill and will vote in favour, My colleagues would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, the Opposition Block, Gusak. Turn on the microphone. Colleagues, if possible, split up so that the camera can find a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the opposition block faction supports high-quality and reliable roads in Ukraine. And we're here to make sure that after the repairs, Ukrainian roads don't collapse because of overload. And by the way, this bill was aimed at re-reading, not from. It's because of the voices of our faction. But unfortunately, even in the amended bill, there is no effective control and detection of overloaded vehicles on the road, no fines that make overload unnecessary, and there is no irreparability of these penalties. Instead, the bill introduces the concept of "shipper" and blurs responsibility between the sender.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u98	30 seconds, please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u99	Yes! Instead, this bill introduces the concept of "shipper" and blurs responsibility between the sender and the carrier, and where there are many responsible, no one actually answers. And one more thing. This bill introduces a standard under which the shipper is obliged to seal the load. What deregulation are we talking about? We will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u100	Please, Eutusek, one minute. And, colleagues, this is the last performance. Then we move on to making a decision. I ask that you invite the members of the factions to the Hall and the heads of the factions of the deputies, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council please inform us that a decision will now be taken. Please, Mr. Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u101	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head. I immediately believe that "Paternity" will support this bill in the first reading, although we have a very strong debate on the faction, and there are some warnings that we need to remove to the second reading as well. Of course, the first thing I'd like to talk about is that the bill provides for responsibility for internal carriers only. We have the same problem of overload and international carriers that are ruining our roads. One second. A confused, really, responsibility, and a quality control system should be, and give an answer, exactly where we have, so to speak, to keep your hand on the pulse and fine these woe carriers who will overload their vehicles. In the first version, when introduced, we had the appearance that both the sender and the carrier and the consignee were responsible. The committee is now preparing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u102	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u103	The main thing is that we have now drafted this bill by the committee: both the sender and the carrier have to be responsible, and international transports too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u104	Thank you, colleagues. So the discussion is over. We can move on to making a decision. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, prepare for the decision. And, colleagues, after that, I'm going to ask you once again to cancel the break at least for today. You all see the order of the day. Many of the deputies waited months for their questions to come into order. This is also true of the bill on the humane treatment of animals. This is true of the Court of Auditors. This is also true of the energy efficiency block. I ask now to uphold the law, and then to immediately support the proposal to work without interruptions of 12-12.30. Do we have a deal? So let's go to the decision-making process, and I'm voting on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Act (to comply with the weighty or the specific rules and conditions set out in the permit to participate in road traffic). I want to make a point, it's only a basic proposal. All the suggestions, the warnings that were, we'll be able to make between the first and the second readings. So I'm asking you to support 4660-d as a base. Please vote and please support the 4660-d base. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:56:33]] For 209 I can put it again, but if it gives us a result. Colleagues, authors! Give me some advice. To the committee, the subject of the legislative initiative? Let's go to the committee, come back to the committee. But colleagues, for the second time by introducing a bill into the hall, conduct prior consultations. I'm asking the author to propose. Please, Vitaly Andryovich. Turn on Corchik's microphone for one minute, let him suggest how we do it. Turn on the microphone. Korczyk Vitaly Andryovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u105	Dear friends! The bill is extremely important. We have heard, indeed, many and many comments that we can agree with today. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But I don't think we have to bring him back to the committee right now. We've already returned it. I would like to ask colleagues who are now blocking the rostrum so that we can all vote together and show that we need Ukrainian roads in a satisfactory state, in the European state to which we deserve. I'm asking you, if I may, to support this bill in its first base, and we'll all continue to work on it together. Understand that you must not waste your time and put it off again. So I'm asking you, sir, if you don't mind, let's try to go back and vote on the basis. If not, we will ask to be sent back to the committee before preparing for the first reading. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this bill, it's extremely important. We'll all see when we bring him in, that he's acting, that our roads will be in a satisfactory state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Vitaly Andryovich, I'll do it: I'll put it back. If there are no votes, we will go to the vote to return to the committee or subject of the legislative initiative. I ask everyone to take their seats, prepare for the vote. The first offer will come back. Please. And I also think that you can make all the revisions between the first and the second readings. Just on the basis, and that's exactly how you can make decisions. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 4660 on Automobile Transport. Please vote, please support the return to draft Law 4660. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:59:29]] For 217 How many more times? How many more do you want? Guys, I'll put it back on. I'll do it again, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm proposing once again to return to draft Law 4660, and please vote, please support. Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[12:00:11]] For 215 And the next suggestion, that's to turn it back, send it back to the committee for re-reading. And I'm proposing that the draft Law 4660d be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, let's support this proposal so we don't lose the bill. Colleagues, please support all this proposal, 4660 to the committee for further work. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:01:00]] For 223 I'll bet the next one. Convert to pre-processing. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back everyone up so we don't lose the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. I'll put it on the committee again. Please mobilize. And let's erase this proposal, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill. I'm once again making a proposal, sending it to the committee for re-reading 4660. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:01:52]] For 223 Next, return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Will you support that? To further develop the subject of the legislative initiative. Let's support this proposal, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal, draft Law 4660, to get the subject back on the right of the legislative initiative to work. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[12:02:38]] For 217 217. Colleagues, we've run out of three votes on this bill. Fellows, let's remobilize, I'll put it back on. And I ask you to support the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Colleagues! This is a completely compromising proposal that allows us to work out. Colleagues! Let's support this proposal. I'm asking you to mobilize the hall and please support. Colleagues, I once again put to the vote the bill of Law 4660 to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Please vote and please support. Colleagues! Support me. Support me. This is a completely compromising proposal that will bring everyone together. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:03:56]] For 212 Draft Law 4660 has been rejected. Whether to cancel the break again or not? It doesn't make sense. Colleagues! According to the Rules, I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12.35, please return to the continuing room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u107	Dear national deputies, the time taken for recess is exhausted. Please enter the conference room to continue the consideration of matters of order. Please come into the hall. I mean, we're actually losing not half an hour, but a lot more. Because it's going to be very difficult to even make decisions about a reduced procedure right now. I will continue to propose an initiative so that you can vote. Moreover, I would like to report that after the initiative of the committee heads, a bill has been registered for amendments to the Rules, which proposes to cancel the recess on Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday. And I am convinced that this will enable us to make Parliament much more effective. So far, this bill has just been registered, it's likely to pass through the committee in the coming days. And for the second week, I'm going to propose to the Supreme Council to consider it. And I very much hope for the support of colleagues, especially those on the Conciliation Council, who demand that we consider more bills. We can't do that if we don't at least take this little step, we won't cancel the break at 12-12.30. So, colleagues, we continue our work. We rejected the draft Law 4660. Accordingly, the next 4661 is recorded as compatible with this bill, it cannot be considered, and the authors are actually stressing that it is compatible with the previous one. And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- this is the draft Law 4246, the draft Act amending article 41 of the Road Traffic Act. And I, my colleagues, will be the first to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'll set up a short procedure first. Please, colleagues, support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft law 42-46 on a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:39:48]] For-100 100 for. The decision is not made. There is a desire to consider the draft Law amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act (as far as the priority of vehicles moving around) is concerned, by full procedure. And with respect to the will of the people's deputies, I'm moving on to a full-procedure draft law. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, I thank you for your confidence in defining this bill as so important and necessary. In principle, it is, in fact, although it is a very simple bill, it today introduces a European norm that operates in all the countries of the world and, especially in the countries of the European Union that did this back in the 1960s and 1970s, in all the countries of the European Union, there is a principle that there is an advantage in the movement at the intersections where the circular movement is organized, to the means of transport that are already moving around. So everywhere in Europe, and people who were and were driving, and we were approached, and the carrier association, and the Automobile Association in general, so that Ukraine would cancel this Soviet principle when the main road was determined by what route the First Secretary of the Whole Party was going from home to work. So let us introduce European principles. And there was a remark, I'd like to answer that these questions need to be set in motion rules. I'm going to remind everyone that we've asked, and together with the Science and Technology Administration, we've found that in all of Europe, this principle is provided for in law, in law. So, just as the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act provides that we have a right-hand movement as the main one on the ring is the law of Ukraine, it's made by laws in other countries of the world, Germany and Poland, and others. Let's make Ukraine do the same thing in Europe, let's support, reduce road accidents and simplify. 'Cause now that the driver's driving, we don't have any signs, we need to look around and think about where the head is? Let's make a European rule and every person, every driver will know in advance how to properly cross intersections with a ring movement organization. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u109	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Dubnevitch Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u110	Thank you, at least, for letting the Radical Party faction speak out to the author, and for that, the committee's head is said to be in place, so I'm going to start with my report. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is on a bill amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act (regarding the priority of vehicles moving around) (registration number 4246) introduced by the People's Deputy Papiev. The bill proposes to amend article 41 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act by supplementing it with the following new part: "The advantage in moving on the intersections where circular motion is organized is given to means of transport that are already moving around." This standard is a European practice that works in Britain, France, Poland and other countries in Central Europe. It is also established in the United States, Canada, Israel, China, and the United Arab Emirates. Statistics show that once the speed of traffic has been set in motion, there has been an 80 - percent decrease in the speed of traffic at intersections. Mini infrastructures and the National Police support the adoption of the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council points out that the issue should be regulated, not by laws, but by legal acts. But the Transport Committee believes that it is appropriate to regulate the standard at the legislative level. The rights and obligations of road users and safety standards should be defined in law rather than in regulations. The Committee on Budgetary Questions believes that the bill does not affect the budgetary indicators. By a decision of the Transport Committee of 5.10.2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt draft Law registration number 4246 as a basis. Please. In turn, I ask as chairman of the committee, in view of the fact that there is, in principle, nothing to work on between the first and the second readings. That's why I'm asking you to accept. support the adoption of Bill 4246 as a basis and as a whole. So that we don't take too long, my fellow countrymen, remember who, as drivers on Ukraine's roads, especially in the middle of the night, there are problems when it's not settled, whether it's a circle or a circle, and it's a cause of major intersection accidents. So I would like to support you, especially my colleagues from the Radical Party, that your honourable colleagues support this important and simple and technical bill, which will allow you to bring the problem back to normal on our Ukrainian roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u111	Thank you, colleagues. So please record statements from factions. Let me remind you, the full procedure involves statements by factions and groups, and then by national MPs. First of all, I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Please. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u112	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to inform the Ukrainians of the great deception that the authorities are now making: President Poroshenko, Prime Minister Groisman, has spoken and has been informed that the robbery decision of the NCREKP has been suspended. I said, "No need to worry." The decision's been suspended. Dear Ukrainians, they're fooling you again! They want to keep robbing you, they come in your pocket, but such beautiful words tell you that they may seem to want to put something in your pocket. Don't be naive. No one will put anything in your pocket except us. Why? Because when they talk about suspending the decision of the NCRECR, suspending the decision is not cancelling. They scheduled the NCREKP meetings for April 10th. Today, as if suspended, April 10th will be considered! This is done for one purpose: to release a couple! Because the authorities have seen that people are indignant, and they want to fool you today, as if they've stalled the decision, 10 of the numbers have been framed. There's someone there who's been switched, in fact, who'll leave the bill and continue to rob you. Therefore, the requirement of the Radical Party faction that blocks the rostrum, and I appeal once again to all parties that call themselves opposition and democratic: let us join together in our efforts to protect the Ukrainians from being robbed. Do not sit in soft chairs and pretend to protect the Ukrainians while they are being robbed. We want to really protect the Ukrainians -- let's lock down both the rostrum and the Parliamentary Presidency, so that immediately a decision will be taken in Parliament to resign Vuka from the position of head of the NCREKP, to return to the state ownership of the gas distribution networks by which the oligarchus Firtas, Ljovczyn, Boyko are used free of charge under the cover of President Prashenko. I ask you a simple question: Why should Ukrainians pay for the corruption schemes of today's government? Why should Ukrainians in their own pocket, why should a grandmother in a village, a grandfather in a village, give the last cents in order to sanctify the treaty between the President, the authorities and between Firthash, Ljovcken and Boyko? They're solving their questions, and they're paying Ukrainians for it. Therefore, the Radical Party will block the rostrum until we get the cancellation, the emphasis, not the suspension, the cancellation of the decision on the robbery bill. We're not gonna let people get robbed, we're not gonna let Ukraine get robbed!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u113	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jehora Soboljev. Igor Didenko, National MP, please, from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, road safety is very important in our country. I believe that it is the responsibility of a loving parliamentarian in his office to preserve people's lives. This bill directly preserves people's lives, because we set normal standards for the whole country: the circle is the main one. If you know, for example, on Oblon we have three or four circles, one, one, the other, not the main, the main, not the main. There are many accidents, many fatalities. The second question. Today, no one in the country is responsible for road safety. Two years ago, you and I removed the responsibility of the police then, renamed police, to be responsible for the safety of traffic. So in a country other than the Cabinet of Ministers, there is no one today responsible for the safety of traffic. In this regard, a well - known working group has been set up today to work on a road safety strategy. These questions are taken into account. And the question that's taken into account is very important, is the creation of an interdisciplinary body that's responsible for road safety. Our European Mission this Sunday and before this, a month ago, drove to Germany and Romania to show how road safety is introduced, how the state controls, how it fights for the lives of everyone. So for today, we have to do the same model of safety management. For this to happen next Sunday or next month, we have to vote on bills to change the automatic fixation to make it work in the country. The second question. We need to discuss and create an interdisciplinary body, a bill registered. And the third question is the philosophy of security. Who answers, who violates security, speed, has to pay the money for the safety of the movement. So we talked to Minfin, and there's a desire to create a road safety fund to fund road safety measures with fines. So let's maintain the security that laws are creating, it's very important to preserve the lives of every Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u115	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Alexander Doubenkov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Dear Chairman! The Opposition Block supports safe and secure roads for Ukrainians. That's why we voted for the road fund bill. Although we had and still had great doubts that today’s authorities will indeed be channeling the cost of rebuilding roads in Ukraine, all the funds will not disappear on the road. Unfortunately, what we see now confirms our fears. Because right after winter, he came down with the asphalt, even on roads that seemed to have been repaired last year. I have to run some very sad statistics again. In Ukraine, 4,000 people died on the roads last year. An estimated 1 million registered cars is about 500. And, honourable colleagues, that's five times more than, for example, in Europe. So we support any action that can at least improve the security situation in the country, especially on its roads. The bill proposes that traffic vehicles that are already traveling around the country should benefit from a single standard to which all drivers can become accustomed. The experience of the same countries in Europe shows that when this rule was introduced at a state-wide legislative level, the number of cross-border accidents declined by about 70 to 80 percent. This is to happen in Ukraine, and this will in any way improve the safety situation on our roads. That's why the Opposition Block will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u120	I beg your pardon, Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u121	Please, People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u122	Good afternoon. The bill does not refer to tariffs or gas networks or cows or villas in any way. So I would ask my colleagues to pay more attention to this bill, which is absolutely necessary in order to eradicate any unhealthy initiative or stupid road service initiative that regulates the passage in its own way. It is enough to say that, according to the legislation, we need to bring it into European standards. allows the passage of cross-sections where traffic is regulated, through the passage of these crosses, to make it impossible or to reduce significantly traffic at these intersections. Just from a variety of, as it were, the priority of crossings is becoming quite dangerous. But this bill will make it easier to bring them in, make it impossible to make the passages more secure. And bring them to the standards for all crossovers throughout Ukraine. So please support this bill. And this will be very appropriate for all carriers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u123	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergey Eutuska, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u124	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, we really have a certain dissonance, because instead of looking at epoch bills in Parliament today, we're looking at bills as we're going around. Instead of bringing this woeful leader of the Wolf here by the ears and listening to what he will say, when by the decision of his body that he leads, the NCREKP, once again the Ukrainians have been robbed for the benefit of the oligarchs, the owners of the deceptions, we are looking at how we are going to drive, whether it's a circle or a main circle or not. Moreover, we are looking at this in the Ukrainian Parliament in full procedure. Shame! So I'm going to say, really, about the bill, we're going to support this bill. But at the same time, the chairman did not give us the opportunity to ask his author. The Committee on Budget Questions replied that it was not supposed to spend on Ukraine’s budget for some sort of regulation of the law. But I'll say it's probably not, because if the state budget doesn't provide for this expenditure, it's probably going to have to predict from the local budgets the costs at which the signs will be installed, the road signs and everything else. So the local budget is definitely going to be affected. I'd like the author of the Mikhail Papiev bill to answer that question. And the second is obviously why we do not change the traffic rules, but why do we change it? Or are they brought into law, or are they brought into consideration, a law that provides for the movement of road transport? Fatherland will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u125	Thank you. We're moving on to a discussion from the National Deputies. People's deputies are invited to prepare themselves and take part in the discussion. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Danchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u126	Good afternoon, colleagues! Clearly, this bill needs to be supported. Because road safety is the life of our citizens. And I ask everyone to support this bill. Come into the hall. And it's a shame that there are no people in the room for such an important bill, which is understood and supported by everyone. And we've been spending our time for over 30 minutes. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u127	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u128	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, the bill is important. I don't think there are any secondary, important ones. Any bill that relates to the life and health of citizens, and above all, it is aimed at regulating the traffic rules, which are very often the result of the loss of life in Ukraine. Today, statistics were cited. The only question I would consider is that these arrangements and the competence to deal with these issues should be handed over to the Cabinet of Ministers and decided on a much simpler basis. Look what's happening right now. There's no people in the room, we're going to fail this bill again. The head of the Supreme Council today tried to make a proposal to vote off breaks. Not to be interrupted, what has long been done by the Committee on Rules, where international experts, including experts, have been working, and make serious adjustments to the work of our Supreme Council, to strengthen the responsibility of deputies, who are often not responsible after the break or at the end of a working day. So I urge you to do this, faction leaders have to take this very seriously, agree with the leadership, and we have to vote on the amendments to the Supreme Council Rules. And for this bill, we will certainly vote and give God enough to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u129	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u130	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, this European principle that cars that are already at a crossroads have the advantage of being in a circle, it needs to be introduced into our Road Traffic Act. The point is that when reading does not take place in the Road Traffic Rules, it can create an emergency situation at intersections. And that's why I'm convinced that we need to gather all the resources right now in order for the Supreme Council to have enough votes to make this bill, which, in fact, has to unite the room, enough, and we voted on it today as a basis and perhaps even in general, because there are no big differences in this law. But at the same time, if you look, really, at the question of how the Ukrainian authorities work today, it is better to introduce this law into other normative acts that regulate, not traffic, but that regulate the activities of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u132	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I think this is a disgrace to our Supreme Council in general, that we are considering such bills as could be done: firstly, in a reduced procedure, if there was an outcry; secondly, we need to adopt a normative basis for this to be decided at the level of government, not the expensive time of the Supreme Council. It's been said here repeatedly that we have to cancel the legislative break from 12 to 12.30, because then somehow we can't get to work on time and get together. Working from 10 to 2 p.m. it's really hard to get a locksmith behind the presses for 4 hours, the driver rides on the bus for 4 hours and more without stopping, and our colleagues find it hard for some people. I want to show you a bill from May 20, 2015, signed by another deputy head of the People's Movement Kishkar Paul, Dmitri Lubinets, Krulko John, Sumar Victoria, who cancels this break. And I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for promising to put this bill into the hall on Thursday. And I very much hope that we will vote it out and that we will be such bills as circle motion, that we will go through a reduced procedure, that we will have 150 votes. Now I call on all colleagues to support and accept this bill, although in fact it is also somewhat controversial. My native city of Kamyansk called me and said that we had a central street on the way up to the train station. And the main one is that side that's on the rise. That's when winter comes, we don't have the main street. But the decision is made by the profile committee, we trust him. And what I want to say for the time remaining is that this morning there was a lot of communication with the people who came to the Supreme Council about the draft legislation on the development and protection of Ukrainian. And I wanted to call on Mr. Mikola Knieżicki's profile committee to create a working group that would work on the drafts, take the best of them, and go out on the only agreed option, so that the Ukrainians don't quarrel with each other, because the proponents of the bill, which everyone, without exception, is Ukrainian patriots, are Ukrainian nationalists, start fighting on the basis of trifles and not trifles, they think, should be removed. To prevent all three laws from being passed to the Supreme Council, because we are not voting any, we are just going to argue in the Supreme Council, and we are going to argue with those activists, and that society that supports different texts, different groups of authors. I call upon this work to be carried out on the basis of a committee chaired by Mr. Princely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u134	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we are now considering a very important bill from my point of view, and we are failing to advise ourselves that this bill is behind the life, the health of our citizens. What's the matter? Unfortunately, in various cities of Ukraine, the rules of traffic are different today when you cross a circle. Today it should not be about Europe, today it should be about Ukraine, today we are talking about that the law should be one for all, so this legislative initiative needs to be settled. But this bill, its discussion, has shown us a whole series of troubles and shortcomings that we have in the work of the Supreme Council because of breaking the rules. You see what we're calling us all to today? That the consideration of the bill is, by full procedure, it is wrong. I would like to remind you that all the bills adopted by the Supreme Council following a reduced procedure during our cadence are now being amended and supplemented by 80 percent. Do you know why? Because it's all being taken for granted. Why do we view it fully? And this is a matter for the coalition. Coalition, where are your 226 votes? You're interested in the order of things today, you should come to the hall today at the exact hour prescribed by the Rules, and you're not. Today, we should also talk about the full procedure being an opportunity to decide and to discuss these bills perfectly. And so we're going to keep coming up with suggestions, let's work for lunch. But it's not about lunchtime, so thank the chairman of the Supreme Council for not voting for this. For this initiative to work on a lunch break. You know why? Because you're going to confirm once again that you're asking. You'll notice how the chairman keeps calling out to his colleagues on the coalition "I ask you to come to the hall," "I beg you to vote," "I beg you" and this request goes on. The Prime Minister of Ukraine says to the NCRE: "Please cancel the subscription fee: President: "Please cancel." This authority has become a request, and people have to say that the subscription fee for gas is a competition for ratings. You know why? Because she's not going to get that subscription fee. The government, the coalition has zero ratings, and in order to raise its authority, the technology is running, first the decision to raise the subscription salary, and then the loud statements of the Prime Minister, the President, and then the struggle of the other factions, let's cancel and end it. We have to say that our Parliamentary factions who block the rostrum are more likely to win, because their actually cancel this subscription fee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u135	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Sergey Matvienkov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u137	People's Deputy Doubenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Once again, we see a picture of legislation that is of course important to the country and the safety of road users being considered in full procedure, while age-old system bills want to extend the culinary rapidly out of sight and public control by their constituents. What about the road situation in Ukraine? It should be noted that Ukraine is sufficient with a well-developed road network of 150,000 roads — public roads, 20,000 roads — while 90 per cent of roads require early capital repairs. That is, the road economy was actually in a state of degradation, but the authorities offered instead to replace the development of road infrastructure. We are now talking about making the circle movement a priority, from the point of view of movement security, probably necessary, because this rule is, indeed, in all the member States of the European Union, yes and I think, in many countries of the world. But is that a high level of mortality? Of course, a very serious contribution, a negative contribution to a very serious level of mortality, is precisely the condition of our roads. What can the current authorities offer? Those 30 billion, which were included in the Ukrainian State Statistics Act in 2015, were earmarked for the development of road transport, of which two thirds were the repayment of loans granted by European banking institutions. What areas can we engage in, attracting domestic investors to develop this transport infrastructure? It must be said that the development of transport infrastructure is a very serious incentive for the economic development of our State, since, inter alia, the transit freight flow has been reduced by 3.5 times since 2005. Where have these transit flows been? Of course, they have been adopted by neighbouring States, which thereby improve transport infrastructure, and increase their tax revenues in particular. I mean, I want to say that the topic of cross- and circular cross-sectional rules is important but not a priority. The priority is to improve the quality of both divorces, infrastructure projects, improve the quality of roads so that road deaths can indeed be reduced, to improve transit transport, both by road and by rail, because the quality of rail communications also wants better, inter alia, an insufficient level of electrification. It is therefore necessary to involve not only public funds, which everyone here is talking about, but also the institution of public private partnership and the involvement of systemic investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u139	Thank you. And I invite you to take the floor at the last address of the national deputy, Andrija Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, certainly, such a broad discussion around a specific and understandable bill, and a completely unpolished bill, of course, needs to be supported, accepted, and such amendments need much, and the author needs to be thanked. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the people under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. They are residents of the hostels that came from Lviv, Zaporozhye, Cerkas, Kirovgrad, Hmělniččina. These are the representatives of more than half a million people who have grown up for three generations in the walls of hostels. And today, legislation unfortunately does not allow them to privatize them. And Bill 1076, which, according to all valid rules, is to be considered as a first priority, because this is a second reading, in fact, with amendments by the President of Ukraine, unfortunately depends, because it is not otherwise called. These people don't come here for the first time, they don't put them on the balcony of our Supreme Council anymore, because they come with posters. But they're not lobbying any business, they're not lobbying for gas, they're not lobbying for roads, they're lobbying for transportation, they're lobbying for fiscal institutions that we're taking on today's increase in insurance and all that. They want 12, 14, 20 square meters, in which, I emphasize, they grew up to be three generations old, working in factories in their time, hard work. They can't privatize them today, and the owners who took these dormitories for cash are driving them out of their home. 1076 is a bill for tomorrow. And I've taken this opportunity to invite you, my honourable colleagues, to come tomorrow and vote for a bill that people are waiting for, not lobbyists, not representatives of the transnational capital, not other zones of influence that affect our country and unfortunately tear it apart. Once again, I ask 1076 for the benefit of the residents of the hostels, for the rights of these hardworking people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u141	Thank you. I want to remind you that tomorrow 1076 stands second in order of the day. Second, tomorrow's full mobilization, and I'm sure we can vote on it. And now the speeches by the National Deputies have been completed. Now I'm going to give the closing word another. Final word, we'll go to the vote in a minute. And, colleagues, I ask you now to invite all the deputies to the Hall and the heads of the factions, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council. And I would like to make a closing statement to the bill's author, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Turn on the microphone. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u142	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I am grateful for the support of this bill, it is absolutely enough that we could unify the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which would be able to endanger our road users today, and we are introducing a European norm. That is, in all countries of the European Union, this rule is in force. I ask you to support this bill and thank you all for your support. Thank you to the profile committee, thank you to the Ministry, thank you to all your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u143	So let's move on to making a decision. I want to remind you that the committee only offers as a basis, and we can make all the warnings between the first and the second readings. And I'm voting on the bill amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act (for the priority of vehicles moving around) (No. 4246) as a basis. Just for the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. 4246 on the ground. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:17:20]] For 242 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee offers in general, colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I bet you do. I'm putting in draft Law 4246 as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. In total, 4246. Vote. [[13:17:54]] For 234 [[Applause]] The law is passed. Decision taken. And this is an exceptional case where the author of the law does not scream about breaking the Rules. Colleagues, we move on to the next, actually the last, issue of the transport block -- this is the draft of Law 4871. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on a unified customs receipt. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Colleagues, please. [[13:18:49]] For-147 Guys, I'll put it back on. Please take up your jobs. Once again, I propose to review draft Law 4871 in a simplified manner. Please vote carefully, please support. Vote. [[13:19:18]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u144	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Unified Customs Declaration. the customs receipt. Basic positions are proposed to improve the Customs Codex. For a clear understanding, the term "unified customs receipt" is introduced and a list of operations in which it is used is defined. The proposed draft law will permit the systematization of existing rules by allowing citizens, businesses and customs to clearly understand and apply customs legislation and by allowing DFS to use new uniformed customs receipt forms. The approved form of a unified customs receipt for today contains the name of the non-existent authority of the State Customs Service, but we cannot change the order accordingly. Therefore, it is proposed that the matter be settled by law. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u145	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u146	The honourable national deputies, as you have understood, the bill (registration number 4871) is the legislative introduction of a unified customs receipt, which uses a unified customs receipt, as well as the authorization of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to approve the form and order of application of the invoice. The Committee shares the view of the drafters of the bill on the need for adoption in view of the legislative uncertainty of the powers of the central executive authorities to approve the form and order of application of the unified customs receipt, as well as the number of operations in which the receipt is to be applied. At the same time, the drafting of a whole series of bills is invalid and needs to be further developed in view of the fact that a unified customs receipt will be filled by the officials of the Ukrainian DFS. In addition, a unified customs receipt contains a rule of law on the number of transactions in which the receipt is applied, which does not meet the requirements of the law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also made a number of comments to the project. And he thinks that if you look at these observations, the project can be taken as a basis. Taking into account the committee's presentation, after considering the bill at its February 22, this year, he decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u147	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. Voicebook Victor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! I want to explain to you the essence of the affair that the authorities are trying to have with the oligarchs today and make the Ukrainians pay even for not eating. Introducing this payment for a gas counter, they want to make them pay for gas, even for those peasants who have already crossed the wood, back in their nineties because of these dragon tariffs. This is totally unacceptable! Second position. This even if the amount was the same as the gas tariff and this subscription, it would be a crazy hit on the Ukrainians, because these costs are not covered by subsidies, unlike the gas tariff. This subscription is not subject to subsidies. Third. When the authorities say that the cost of the Ukrainians will not increase, they lie. The cost of a huge population in Ukraine will increase! Especially the least socially protected population: pensioners, peasants. Those who today save every penny on clothing, food, and medicine. Moreover, according to this scheme proposed by Dmitri Wolfe, NCREKP, the poor will be paid for the rich! Because, indeed, there will be those who will pay less under the new scheme. Those who use thousands of cubic meters of gas to burn their huge buildings will save 10 percent. But much of the Ukrainians will pay more than five times for individual categories of Ukrainians! In addition, the money will go to the oligarchs. You see, 24 billion bracelets have added to the hoax. This is essentially a proposal for the destruction of the village. Moreover, NCRECR has planned to raise this fee almost three times in three years. Therefore, there is no way to accept it, to repeal the NCRECRCR! And the Wolf's and the NCREKP's retreat! Because it's not their first affair!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u149	When he takes the floor on the bill, I ask him to speak on the bill. And I'm going to all the national MPs to follow this rule of law. From Self-Help, the word is Babak Aloni Valeriyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u150	I'd like to give it to Ostrky's Aunt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Today, when goods moved by citizens are placed in customs storage, when they are paid by a single assembly at border crossings and customs payments by DFS authorities, a unified MD-1 customs receipt is used. However, customs formalities remain in the Customs Code, which foresees the need for the use of MD-1. However, the rules for establishing a list of transactions in which MD-1 applies itself, and the rules for granting approvals for its form and order of application, unfortunately, in the Customs Code. not available. This bill proposes to legislatively define the concept of "unified customs receipt" and the operations in which it is used. In general, this bill can potentially simplify the process of customs processing, reduce budget spending and help prevent delays in customs work abroad. However, the bill proposes amendments to Article 298 of the Customs Code, according to which the amounts of customs payments may be paid in cash in the form of an income agency and a congregation with a unified customs receipt, the form and procedure of which are determined by the central authority of the executive body that provides for the formation and implementation of tax policies, that is, Minfin. According to GNEU, and we also share it, the order in which a uniform customs receipt is applied should be determined directly in the Customs Code. So this bill will have to be finalized between the first and the second readings, and on the basis of that, we ask that it be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Opposition Block, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, this bill is mostly technical, since a unified customs receipt has always existed and existed in the previous edition of the Customs Code. It was called upon to simplify and minimize, within the time frame, the customs procedure, in particular in such operations as the placing of goods at the customs warehouse (now already in the revenue and charges authorities), the processing of such transactions as the bond for payment of customs charges. In other words, banking institutions have been certain guarantors in granting this right of bet that this right will be realized within a certain period of time, the unconditional write-off of these funds from their client's account, which makes the customs administration of these goods. In general, the bill is necessary to optimize and simplify customs clearance. And as for the so-called opposition who are blocking the promotion of public services, I would like to remind you that in 2014, a coalition called "For European Ukraine", where in exchange for IMF loans, all of you, apart from the opposition faction "The Opposition Block", agreed to increase housing tariffs, water supply, thermal energy, electricity, natural gas for the population to an economically sound level. As a result, for 2013, the number of tariffs tripled. So we don't have to talk about who's opposing and democratic. There was no need to vote in the early years of this coalition for those bills that laid the groundwork for raising the tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u154	Colleagues, we're about to make our final speech from Peter Dusty's Block, Cobbs. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please turn on the microphone for 2 minutes. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, a unified customs receipt is designed to be processed, to be stored on customs goods not missed across borders, and to confirm the customs payment for imports of goods subject to taxation and other transactions. The forms of such a customs receipt belong to the banks of strict reporting. But despite their important role in customs work, they still have neither the legal definition in existing legislation nor the legislative definition of transactions and their application. That is why the bill is truly important and necessary. At the same time, experts expect that clear standards for their application of MD-1 will reduce baseless queues and remove improper customs clearance. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction will support these changes and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u156	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Please take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. During the discussion of the bill, all commentators noted that the first reading would support it. And that's why we can make a positive decision. It's only about disciplined voting. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on a unified customs receipt (number 4871), on the basis of the committee's opinion, just on the basis, we'll be able to make all the proposals for a second reading. If you'll excuse me, please vote 4871 as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:31:23]] For 221 I'll put you back in, but I'll ask the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. Please, colleagues. Ready to make a decision? I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 4871. Vote, colleagues, return to 4871. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:32:24]] For 228 We're back. Colleagues, now I'm laying the groundwork, just as a foundation. Please take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on Unified Customs Ticket (4871) as a basis. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for base 4871. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:33:08]] For 235 235-yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, I want to explain to you the logic, we have 35 minutes left, we've completed the transport block, we've got a series of bills in the agenda of the day. It's one minute at a time. And I propose that we have yet to consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on animal welfare by noon. This is the next one after the day-to-day session. I ask now that we walk through the laws of inclusion in the agenda of the session and are able to take another look at 5119. It needs our quick and orderly work, and let's get the band on this schedule by lunch. We'll be through in 10 minutes and then we'll have 15 minutes for a bill on humane treatment of animals. So one thing at a time, I'm going to be putting proposals into the agenda of the day session. First, 6232 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts. The Knyazević Committee, Ruslan Petrovich, requests that the agenda of the session be put in order only for the day’s session. Please vote, please support. Vote 6232. Please vote. [[13:34:57]] For-164 Colleagues, I remind you that when we formed the agenda we included all the bills in the agenda of the day session. This was our general principle. Let me once again put 6232 into the agenda of the day session, please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:35:30]] For a hundred and Even less. Okay. Next: 6233 is a draft law amending article 540 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the enforcement of the decision of the income and assembly authorities or the court imposing a fine. It is proposed by the committee and the head of the committee, Ms. Nina Petrovna (6233). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:36:11]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The following: 6256 is a draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the central executive bodies (to optimize the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the relationship of the subjects of their knowledge with the spheres of activity of the ministries). Colleagues, this is a bill that was drafted by a working group on parliamentary reform. Five meetings with all factions. We worked and went out on this joint harmonized bill. All the factions supported him, everyone voted. And I ask you now to support its inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Yes, colleagues? Members of the task force, work with your factions. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the 6256 session. Please support, colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda of the session. This is the work of all factions, all groups. Please vote, please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[13:37:26]] For 203 I'll remind you that all the factions were in the task force. And this is the position of all the factions of this bill. Colleagues, members of the task force! I'm asking you to just point out your factions. Fellows, once again, I'm asking everyone to take a look. I'm putting the vote again and please support me, colleagues. People's Front! "Paternality"! Please. It's not enough. We just need to concentrate our voices. Igor Popov, support with at least a few voices! I'm putting the agenda of the 6256 session on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a reform of Parliament, a reform of Cox. I ask you to vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[13:38:44]] For 210 210. The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you. Why don't we go to the next bill instead of having an inefficient vote? Is it supported? Come on, colleagues, since we don't have unity in this block, I'm going to move on to the next issue of order of the day. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring humane treatment of animals for the purpose of moral development (5119 and 5119-1). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:39:46]] For-162 162-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report. The first report is Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. The second is the Nemirovsky Andrew Valentinovich. Please, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, this bill is designed to clearly regulate in legislation the protection of animals from cruel treatment, the protection of the humanitarian sphere of Ukrainian society, because it is a matter of national security. To regulate the responsibility of hedgehogs, not formal ones, but real ones and very hard ones, all the way to being put in jail until they're three years old. The predicted exclusive list of the reasons, the mechanisms to be put in place: there is a significant increase in responsibility for people who deliberately commit atrocities against animals; there is a special responsibility for those who deliberately promote cruel treatment of animals or trauma to the mental health of children. We today have to adopt this law as a basis. Such standards are also found in European legislation. In a number of European countries, animal protection against cruelty is provided at the constitutional level. Moreover, it has been one of the most important issues in the country since ancient Greece, since today it begins with a small one — how children grow up, how we treat each other and how we treat our younger brothers. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as a basis for the second reading, in conjunction with the public organizations that provide for the protection of animals, together with experts, with activists, with lawyers, to finalize this bill and to adopt it as a law as a whole. Moreover, today it will be especially symbolic of the Day of Protection of the Homeless Animals. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u158	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Nemirowski Andriy Valentinovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! We are very grateful to the Radical Party and other factions and groups of deputies that they are also raising these questions. But right now, Bill 5119-1 is a balanced, well-founded, full complement to existing legislation in terms of humane attitudes toward animals. It radically changes the measure of responsibility for causing suffering and physical harm to animals that are animals. Both domestic and carefree. This bill contains comprehensive administrative and criminal safeguards regarding the actions of skinwalkers, doghunters, and animal abusers. It is very important to remind once again that this is the kind of bill that has been drafted by peaceful actions by zookeepers all over Ukraine and is being carried out now. They expressed their full support for the implementation of this bill, and they also addressed a collective appeal from the entire community of zoologists and zoo-organizations from all parts of Ukraine regarding their full compliance with this law. Last but not least, by allowing for the impunity of skinwalkers, we silently cherish the very sophisticated killers they continue to become. Among them are examples of recruitment by enemy military structures for which the skinwalker is a flexible plastic from which they glue the most severe killer of man. This is the conclusion of many psychologists who have studied the conduct of such crimes in their scientific studies. Enough to mention the so-called Russian terrorist group that has abused our fighters. It consisted of 90 percent of the so - called doghunters. This can be confirmed by Sergey Melniczuk. So I ask all the national deputies of all factions to vote in favour, because your voice will show your humanity, your willingness to hear society and give you a chance to save the lives of defenseless animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u160	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy’s subcommittee, Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u161	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislation on ensuring the humane treatment of animals for the moral development of society, submitted by national deputies Lášk, Halasyuk, Vukok and others. This is registration number 5119; and on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on animal welfare, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputy Nemirowski, 5119. During the committee’s meeting, a decision was taken on the basis of the support for Bill 5119. The purpose of the bill is to amend article 89, to increase criminal liability, or criminal liability, for the cruel treatment of animals. If you take one and the other bills that are presented, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration proposes that you go back to work. Again, the committee had a large number of appeals from public organizations and activists. And the committee decided unanimously to support Bill 5119. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u162	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. He's a smoker. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u164	Dear fellow national MPs! I agree with my colleague, Mr. Nemirowski, with the leader of our working group, that really Bill 5119-1 is more practical and more responsive to the needs of Ukrainian society today. Because if we don't stop the animal abuse of these damn dogs today, we're going to find it hard to stop those who kill people. By the way, it is a very important figure that in Ukraine alone this year eight thieves have been convicted of murder, who have been treated as those who have abused animals in their teenage years. Satisfaction with diseased passion for animal suffering and killing is a criminal offence in countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia, and most European Union countries. The protection of animals against bullying, killing, and murder must be given considerable attention today! It's terrible to watch on the Internet today, on YouTube, watching videos! That's terrible! That's what our kids don't have to see! But there is a request and an offer. This project is quite perfect. And there is a proposal to accept it not only as a basis but as a basis and as a whole. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u165	Thank you. From the People's Front, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u166	Friends, in our animal relations, we raise our children. They grow up to be examples of us. So I support both of these bills, and I like them both. Let the hall determine which one is better. But they are essential, and I ask them to support them. No one should be indifferent! We stand, we vote, my friends! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u167	Thank you. Vassil Alexanderovich used to play.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Anton Yatzenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! Today we face daily facts when sadists, different bastards, kill animals. They kill like doghanters, they do it on video. And Ukraine is demonstrating to the world that we are not a civilized country, but a country where such an attitude is very, very easy to commit. Just one example. Now, for the second year, we've been fighting when an animal was killed on video and nothing in Alexandria, and they're not even counted from college, those bastards, excuse me for saying that. That is why I believe that today we must vote in favour of this law. And I agree with my previous colleague, Shinkovich, that let's vote it out immediately in general. So we don't wait for those sadists to kill anyone else! Let me remind you of just one example. In the United States, a sadist was recently sentenced to 30 years in the United States. That is, in all parts of the world, this is considered a very serious crime. It's an easy crime today. That's why we have to make them, as they say, "refusal," of these people who are calibrating from killing animals. Let us all vote in favour of this law in the first reading and in general, regardless of political views. I mean the law of a colleague of Nemirowski, it's more perfect. Thank you for your attention. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u170	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" is Rybchin Aleksei Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u171	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Please pass the word to Kugel Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u172	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. First of all, I would like to thank all the public organizations, all the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians who have been asking the Supreme Council for the adoption of this bill for six months. Thank you, this is your victory, first. Second, the "Fatherland" faction considers the Bill 5119 to be more solid and suggests that it be supported in the first reading. But I am sure that until our second reading, we must place a very serious criminal responsibility on the part of the city’s, rural, and village councils, which organize the dog’s weeds in the territory. This is a terrible situation. I think they know they'll build their utility companies, but the last call was from Nicopol, Mayor Nicopol himself headed the system on the weeds of dogs. And there are many such examples. I am sure that the Ukrainian nation is very moral, very spiritual, and it will always lovingly treat every animal, every dog, every human with love, and we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u173	Colleagues, I'd like to inform you. Look, we've got seven minutes left, and we haven't had Self-Help yet, the Radical Party and the will of the people, at least three. And would it be okay if we give in a minute? Well, we can't just make it. If you're proponents of the bill, how do we get out at 14:10, well, we're not little kids, we understand, we just can't make it. In a minute, okay? In a minute. So, colleagues, I'll give it to you in a minute. From the Radical Party Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u174	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, it is evident that these bills are being considered today on World Homeless Animals Day. I have six dogs in my house, two of which are former homeless, who are now in their reliable and warm hands. So my pesos asked you to vote for a law that would not allow you to kill homeless cats and dogs. Because the world knows that the treatment of homeless animals, the treatment of people with disabilities, determines the level of civilisation of society. Therefore, we should respect not only the people but also the brothers of our lesser ones. And I call for the strictest responsibility of those doghunters, those idiots who kill our smaller brothers. And for the sake of our smaller brothers, for the sake of cats and dogs, the Radical Party faction is ready to unlock the rostrum and vote in favour of this law that will protect our animals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u175	One minute, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u176	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Few of us have pets. And I don't think there's anyone in this room who won't press the green button. I urge everyone to support this bill and to pay very great attention when we add something, because, for example, prevention work, both in terms of raising our young people and prevention work with skins, is our future. As the forerunner said, one of the speakers, we faced this in war. Now, the skinners collided into one group and then tattooed our boys, cut off their ears. And it is these cases that are now being brought before the Hague Tribunal to make the appropriate allegations to the Russian occupation. Colleagues, we'll support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u177	Self-help, Semenha, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, it is clear that today the legislative base for the protection of homeless animals is at a catastrophic low level. In Ukraine, hundreds of allegations of animal cruelty are made each year, but only a few cases are brought to court. Over the past 10 years, the average number of criminal offences opened under article 299 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code 49, but only 11 per year. This data is obviously contrary to the real state of things and the spread of animal cruelty in such areas as family-building, pathological, hunting, animal breeding, entertainment and community farming. So obviously we need to amend article 299 of the Criminal Code, 89 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in order to distinguish between cruel conduct, which is interpreted as a criminal offence or an administrative offence. The Self-Help faction will support Bill 5119 as more systemic than alternative, in particular, which does not distinguish administrative and criminal responsibility. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u179	From the Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u180	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, what is being done today with homeless animals is, of course, a horror and today we must support this bill. Because every one of us who has a house or a cat or a dog or any other animal understands what's going on. And now I want to say that this law is taking on special importance in our Supreme Council, the protection of homeless animals. I would like to remind you that we have here today both zoos, and foxes, and dogs, and cocks, and cattle, and leeches, and cocks, let us protect everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u181	Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall right now and prepare for a decision. As long as the MPs come in. Please, Krivenko one minute, Solowie one minute and please come into the hall. Very short, with replicas. Guilty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Of course, these bills must be supported. I want to thank my colleagues, Ednak, my colleagues, for leaving a year ago to discover the scheme that was in Kiev. When 5.5 million dollars were set aside for shelter, 69 people in the state and they personally found six dead dogs, the money just washed away, ripped off. And then we joined the active support of animal rights fighters and now there are two cases in the courts: this is Mr. Kyyanitsa in the Voice Court, who stretched the cat between the trees and tore it apart, and the case is being carried over all the time, of course, to determine whether the guilty person is guilty or guilty. But I'm looking to the law enforcement agencies, the courts, to get this case to trial. And Mr. King who poisoned the Botanical Garden of Dogs. And I call on all my colleagues to support at least one of these bills and to be careful, careful about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u183	Thank you. And the last one is solo, very short. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I'm a human being, by the way, with a dog, I mean, we should definitely protect animals, but besides that, we should not forget to protect people from animals. Since aggressive dogs are an individual species, they can even be called weapons. I want to give you an example literally on the days that took place in Ivano-Frankivsk, when, at the police's call, the police could do nothing with the dog aggressively, because the current legislation does not provide for the responsibility of the masters for his dog's actions. Therefore, in addition to protecting animals, we should ask questions of harshness, including the legislative field of protection, and of those dogs who endanger their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-04-m0.u185	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm going to consult you now, what's the logic, maybe we'll run a 5119-1 rating right now? So, colleagues, I'm putting it in the order that it was given. First Bill 5119, if he doesn't get the necessary number then 5119-1. It's a deal, yeah. Then I put in this sequence the author of the first Halasuk Viktor Valeriyovich, author of the second Nemirovsky Andry Valentinovich. And I am the first to put to the vote the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure that animals are treated humanely for the purpose of moral development of society, and I am putting 5119 first. Please vote 5119. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. [[14:00:41]] For the 220. I bet the following is 5119-1, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (to ensure humane treatment of animals for the purpose of moral development). 5119-1, please vote, please support, colleagues, on the ground. 5119-1, based on. Vote, fellows! Please back up! [[14:01:23]] For 243 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Congratulations, colleagues, all who have sought this Law. We were able to give him the way, and to the second reading, I'm sure we'll be able to work it out. I would like to remind you that at 4:00 a.m., we are moving on to the question of the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. Now I'd like to read another announcement that came to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "The Future of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Ribak Ivan Petrovich, was elected head of this association. And, colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'd like everyone here at 4:00 to resume our work.
