ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for registration. Prepared to register? So, your honors, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment, please. [[10:01:47]] 325 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. As you recall, on Tuesday, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I emphasize factions and groups. And I ask all the factions and groups to record the performance. Are all groups and factions in place? So let's do the recording. From the Radical Party, the word is given to Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Kabminu seniors, together with grant experts, under the pressure of European officials, are undertaking a targeted campaign to discredit the abolition of a moratorium on the export of roundwood, which we have accepted in this room to protect Ukrainian ecology and to protect the interests of Ukrainian industry and economy. They encourage European officials to withdraw the moratorium as a requirement for a new loan. In fact, they say give us the wand, and we'll give you some fish. This policy is not in the interests of Ukraine. Moreover, they launched a media campaign that uses false, unobjective, unprofessional arguments to convince society that the moratorium should be abolished. Unfortunately, in this campaign, the top-ranking anti-government discredited Moratorium is involved. So recently, in her interview with Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine on Eurointegration, Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze made a number of statements that do not correspond to reality and Ukrainian interests. She claims that the moratorium violates the Treaty with the European Union. I hereby declare that the moratorium on the export of roundwood is in line with both the World Trade Organisation Agreement and the Ukraine Association Agreement with the European Union. This is very important because the WTO Agreement provides for a number of permitted exceptions. Including article 20G on the conservation of natural resources that are being exhausted. Moreover, the Association Agreement refers to this WTO Agreement. And she says that nothing can contradict this WTO covenant. Thus, Ukraine has all the legitimate reasons to do as we did: temporarily for 10 years on a non-discriminatory basis, a moratorium was introduced on the export of roundwood. Unfortunately, the Vice Prime Minister also claims that the moratorium is ineffective. It's not true. During the first half of this year, when the moratorium is in operation for the first time in all rural fields, investments in the field have increased more than twice as much as 3 billion dollars. Meanwhile, furniture exports increased by 30 to 40 percent. These are the results that Ukraine needs. Regrettably, today the authorities are sabotaging him instead of enforcing this governmental law. What's more, I'm being approached by European investors who built production in Ukraine, invested tens of millions of euros, created jobs, they can't buy raw materials, because the government and the woodshed are artificially making sure that the raw materials are not used to discriminate against the moratorium. We won't let that happen. A moratorium on Ukraine’s interests, the Ukrainians, and it is aimed at protecting the environment, improving the welfare of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u3	Thank you. I would like to point out that I will only add 10 seconds to the presentation so that you can complete your opinion, but please enter into the rules. From the Opposition Block to Mr. Vilkul's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u4	The people of Ukraine, honourable national MPs, to save the country, we, the Opposition Block, call upon all the political forces that criticize the authorities, who declare their opposition to unification at least in the hall, even in matters relating to the economy. But this union should take place, not around the border, but around the restoration of peace, the reduction of municipal tariffs, the rise, the real increase, not inflationary, wages and pensions, the restoration of the economy, so that every farmer, every employee, every entrepreneur, realizes that he has a chance in that country. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, only BP and the People's Front supported the government's budget. I call on all who declare their opposition: Let us tell people the truth. Small increases in wages and pensions will actually eat up inflation. Education reform is designed to save lives by shutting down schools and preparing a low - quality labor force. And medical reform, you can now ask the people who are around the Supreme Council, the doctors, the real doctors who are here to tell you that you can't accept this medical reform, which will lead to real paid medicine, which will lead to small towns and villages just being closed to hospitals. As far as pension reform is concerned, it is too much manipulation. And the goal of this pension reform is to make only 5 out of 12 million pensioners in a few years. The slogan of this pension reform: "Death to retirement – help the country!".. There is no way to vote for it. Also increasing the subsidy, the subsidies in this government budget -- it actually says they want to raise the utility tariffs again. Dear colleagues, those who declare opposition, let's create some interfractional advisory board to which factions, MPs, individual deputies can enter, those who really want to do something, and who don't want to increase their ratings by populism slogans. Let's put aside the issues of protecting the country around economic issues all political and ideological differences. We have one flag: the Ukrainian flag. And for the country to have a chance of a normal future, there must be a union around that flag. Let's develop these state budget indicators and force the government to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u5	Please, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u6	In fact, in the opposition, the coalition doesn't have 226 votes, more of us. If this authority is not available, this council does not have the will to dissolve itself and go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Sorry, time for the speech is over. [[Applause]] From Self-Help, the word is given to Roman Semensi, who conveys the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u8	Today, there are two of the most important tasks of government in the country: to defend the homeland from an age-old enemy and to develop a homeland socially, economically and politically. The good idea of bringing peacekeepers into the temporarily occupied territories today is that it will be used by those who want to use the blue helmets in order, under their cover, to conduct the political elections and reintegrate this pain of the people into the living body of the Ukrainian land on a morally and physically destroyed enemy. Today, we must be very careful to track this process so that the colonizer does not reloneize Ukraine in a sneaky and sneaky way because of this "noble idea." The second issue is the development of the country and it can only be developed through the main document that the country develops every year, the country's budget. Last year the good thing that happened after the Dignity Revolution was budget decentralization was "under fire" and local budgets were robbed because of essentially cancelling excises on retail fuel trade. Today, local budgets have been affected. What does the government do next? The government is still trying to centralize the budget. And today we've seen a change to the Budget Code, where all the benefits that the state has provided and provides to the people from the following year are translated into local budgets: robbery and complete irresponsibility and remoteness of the central government from the people. You and I can't let this robbery happen. Addiction is growing, we declare that we need more money for the defense budget, the unconditional army is without weapons, the army is without sanitation and much more is needed. But to increase the defense budget without civilian control means to rob the budget with an oligarchic regime. These challenges lie before us for the next few weeks, and we must be together to fill the budget and use it exclusively for the common man in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u9	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I am addressing not only those who are now in the Supreme Council Hall, but also Ukrainian citizens. Now there's going to be another show in the Supreme Council called Court Reform. I want to say right now that there is no judicial reform and there is no judicial reform. In the name of the President of Ukraine, every codex that fundamentally narrows down the rights of every human being in Ukraine will now be discussed in the Supreme Council at the same time. On January 16th, when the Party of the Regions voted by hand, they were just children's toys, compared to what the President of Ukraine and his community would now do with justice. I now have the first document in my hands: a speech by the public, lawyers, lawyers, lawyers who called on all worthy and honest members of the Supreme Council not to vote in favour of this disgrace, for the 6232 bill, which is called "court reform." They pointed out that this judicial reform is being done to prevent people who are underfunded today and, according to the United Nations, more than 60 percent of the people who are outside the poverty line from being brought to justice at all. Because these court fees are double, it's just not going to be available to people. Secondly, all previous achievements are overturned and the trials are not made public, closed. So the judge can just decide when not to broadcast court hearings in public, and that means that behind closed doors you can do anything. In addition, all parties to the trial are deprived of their rights. In fact, there are a lot of comments, read, which make it simply unacceptable to vote. But there is also the rule of law of the Supreme Council. Note where they say that if this so-called reform is adopted, justice will end. We're going to see who's going to vote for this disgrace, and so the hall will be divided into coalitions, totally criminal and mafia, and real opposition. I call on the deputies not to support the usurpation of the judicial branch of power and to allow the people of the courts to continue to receive justice rather than orders and orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u11	Please, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u12	I would also like to say that today tens of thousands of medical personnel have gathered around the Supreme Council against the so - called medical reform and me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u13	I warned you, ten seconds from the morning I warned you, ten seconds. Turn on another ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u14	And I urge all MPs to pay attention to the medical requirements -- and not to support the medical reform that is the destruction of the Ukrainian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u15	From the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, head of the faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u16	Good day, honourable colleagues, the autumn of reforms continues, and regrettably, despite the destructive forces in this Parliament, we have heard from previous factions that former regions are calling for all to unite. And don't call, you'll find that you've already joined up with the destructive opposition against reforming our country. Instead, there is great expectation in society and about the renewal of justice, and we are now awaiting the appointment of the new members of the Supreme Court who have been elected to the new competition. For the first time, the whole country could watch this competition online. But instead of proposing effective and proposals for anti-corruption justice, well-known anti-corruption fighters are critical of everyone and everything that really supports the preservation of corrupt courts and the corrupt judiciary. But there are examples of a positive fight against corruption, and I want to remind everyone that the Attorney General's Office, Yuri Lucenko, has been brought to justice about 7,000 corruption cases and has been counted in the budget of $1.5 billion stolen by the Yanukovic regime. We remember how passionately these same anti-corruption fighters were against the Special Confiscation Act, which introduced the People's Front several times. But the story puts the dots above the "and." The essence of anti-corruption should be to ensure that all branches of the judiciary are honest, worthy judges, who will deal professionally and impartially with anti-corruption cases, make fair decisions -- and corrupters will eventually be punished justly. But without a substantial update of the Supreme Court and the adoption of the Judicial Act, this is not possible. Next. We have successfully embarked on the autumn of reforms. The Education Reform of the Minister of the People's Front, Lilia Greenevich, was adopted. We expect it to be signed -- and we're finally going to break up with the dreary Soviet system of secondary education. Next. Government pension reform, which is the result of the splinter of two governments: Arsenija Yatzenyuk and the government of Vladimir Groysman -- was a major member of our colleague Ludmila Denisov's profile committee. I urge colleagues not to delay the review of codes and pension reform so that 9 million pensioners can receive a higher pension by 1 October. And that will be your responsibility, if you fail this process, as of October 1, our pensioners will not receive a higher pension. And finally, colleagues. At all levels, there has now been an active discussion on the issue of United Nations peacekeepers in Donbas. The position of the People's Front was expressed by Arsenius Yatzenuk in uniform in the EU. I can tell everyone that no decision on the introduction of peacekeepers from the UN or any initiative will be taken without agreement on this position in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u17	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We begin the week on which we have and are obliged to continue the high pace of reform, first of all, I have judicial reform, but also pension and medical reform. This week, too, is overwhelming in resisting Russian aggression on the diplomatic front. Tomorrow, the President of Ukraine will present to the UN Security Council our vision of the deployment of a peacekeeping mission in the temporarily occupied parts of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. The Ukrainian proposal is to place blue helmets all over the occupied territory, and primarily an international peacekeeping mission has to control the uncontrolled Ukrainian-Russian border area for more than 400 kilometers, through which Russia supplies arms, ammunition, supplies and personnel to continue aggression. Only when this "black hole" between us and the aggressor, in the Donetsk and Lugansk trades, will the tanks, chests, artillery, other weapons that take the lives of our military and peaceful Ukrainians end. The position of the President of Ukraine at the UN Radbeg is firm: we have rejected the Kremlin's version of the deployment of peacekeepers in Ukrainian territory. We were supported in this by the United States. And by the way, tonight, as you know, the U.S. Senate voted in favour of giving Ukraine $500 million in defense of needs. Focusing today on the disarmament and reintegration of Donbas, there is no way to rule out the day-to-day question of the depopulation of the Crimea Peninsula, and during his visit to the United Nations, the President of Ukraine will initiate the establishment of an international group of members of the UN General Assembly to strengthen our position on the release of the Crimea. Because today, world leaders more than ever understand that the integrity of our state, the restoration of its borders, is a guarantee of security and the preservation of world order, but effective reforms are no less necessary to strengthen the political economic and energy independence of our state. Therefore, the Supreme Council has no right to derail the pace of its work. And above all, today's agenda is to complete the consideration of amendments to the Bill of Comprehensive Amendments to the Codes of Justice. Parliament must reach consensus in the final drafting of this bill. We've already heard here statements that it's a sort of show, we've heard a lot of lies from this rostrum, but the situation is very simple: whether we're moving forward and giving the Ukrainians a fair trial, and the investor a fair defense of the investment, or whether we're really preserving the old Janukovich judicial system. So when there's a vote in this room, we have to understand that clearly. In addition, we must conclude our consideration of pension reform. For now, there are millions of pensioners waiting to be promoted, and I'm going to see how someone in this room is going to vote against increasing pensions for pensioners. We are also in the process of adopting medical reform, and this is also overwhelming. Dear colleagues, while the President of Ukraine will involve allies in the international arena to achieve peace and restore territorial integrity, the Supreme Council must continue to cement the foundation for a strong, European, updated Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u19	Thank you. And the closing statement from the Rebirth faction is Bondar Victor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u20	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, under the walls of Parliament, there is a large health - care rally. I think that everyone, the whole country, is watching how reforms are taking place in this country and how they are ending. The dozens of reforms that have been initiated have unfortunately not been completed in any way and have in fact not changed anything for business or for ordinary citizens of Ukraine. Today, in fact, no one has really felt any positive changes in his or her pocket or home, in terms of social protection, or in terms of income increases in his or her family. Unfortunately, we only see many of the reforms that have begun, but they are still unfinished because there is no budget reinforcement and there is no end purpose for them to end. The same is true of medical reform. For good reason, medical personnel now held a rally under the walls of Parliament. The point is that, in fact, today in Ukraine, due to so - called medical reform, it is proposed to introduce paid medicine in Ukraine. Second, we don't see the answer to whether there will be a medical insurance. Third, we do not understand how the district hospitals, the city hospitals, will continue to be financed, because in fact they are not on the balance of united communities, nor on the balance of district councils, rather than on what medical systems will be built and what medical models will be built in Ukraine, whether they will be state clinics, or whether they will in fact be private clinics. We ask the question: What is the ultimate goal of this reform? Because today, if you read that bill that's proposed, it's essentially the main goal of creating another additional medical body in Ukraine, the National Security Service. And the point is, in fact, that this is being created by another central body that will be engaged in virtually corrupt drug purchases again in billions of dollars through the state budget of Ukraine, and they want to knee-deep in the service of all the major doctors in Ukraine, because it seems to have to make arrangements for the financing of regional and other hospitals in Ukraine. And it's essentially going to be the only source of funding, and it's essentially going to have to have to take huge corruption risks and political burdens when the main doctors in Kiev are told which political parties support both how, and who, and when to finance. That's why we demand a clear answer, which is the ultimate objective of medical reform, how funding will be provided, and to guarantee to people that they will be able to receive medical care under any circumstances with the financial support of the state, including through the introduction of medical reform. And we demand that the medical programs be funded at last, including after the treatment of children abroad -- something that our faction has repeatedly asked questions about, and we keep asking the Ministry of Finance, because these are the biggest issues that people in the districts are asking today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u21	Okay. Colleagues, therefore, are finished speaking from factions. Now I'm going to read the announcement that came to the fore. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of Ukrainian national MPs Mikitas Maxim Viktorovich and Suprunek Alexandre Ivanovic into the MP group "The Will of the People". I have two applications for intermissions from the Radical Party and Self-Help factions and the Rebirth Party and the People's Will. Both statements agree to replace the break for the performance. And I, before I go to the agenda and the law, first Igor Mosiyczuk, yes, from the Radical Party, Self-Help, and then Yatzenko. Please, in three minutes, I'm going to add not more than 10 seconds. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. Get ready, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Igor Mosiyczuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. We would like to draw the attention of the entire Ukrainian society to the injustice that the third year in a row takes place in relation to those who have committed crimes against the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian nation. This is about Janukovic’s side, which includes hiding in this room. We created the National Anti-Corruption Office, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, but they don't notice any illegal enrichment of Yanukovic's environment, or the robbery of the country that's been and is now taking place through its gravel. This is the purpose of today's organization of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which requires criminal responsibility for the illegal enrichment of Sergey Ljovczyn, who is directly responsible for the killings in Maidan, who is directly responsible for the robbery of the country. In addition, I would like to point out to society that, at the time that Lavrinovich was in charge, I have a question about why he is still not held accountable for crimes against the Ukrainian State, Sergey Ljovkskin, who was directly planning to seize state power, to usurp the power of Janukovic. In this regard, we, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, to immediately question and violate criminal conduct against the Gaullier Janukovic Sergio Lvočkin. [[Applause]] Place of all Janukovich's litters behind bars. And we won't stop. Ukrainian society has endured for three years. Yesterday, Ukrainian society in the Black Sea Court of Odessa was spittin' in the face by releasing those who killed Ukrainians! We're being told about the need to create an anti-corruption court, so let's create an anti-Separatist court. Because we have separatists released and found innocent. Ukraine needs a fair trial and a hundred percent release of judges, and bringing all "fellas" to justice! The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u23	Anton Yatzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We're here to raise a lot of questions about these interesting, uninteresting things. But what I'm saying is that, at the same time, about 200 children are in line for treatment abroad, and every day for them is the loss of the opportunity to live. And when we adopted the budget in 2017, in July, there was an agreement with the government and it was publicly stated that this fall they would introduce a bill to amend the budget to increase funding. And these are our children! It's people's lives. And today, it is not by chance that the medical community has come against this reform. But no one wonders what to do now to people whose children are dying. And the second is the same thing with cohlear implants. Well, yeah, we've increased this program by 110 million. But about 200 children today lose their hope every day. That's why I'd do it. Same thing with DCP. I would very much ask Mr. Speaker, faction leaders, all MPs to join and "do not go down," as they say, from this issue until it is resolved this year. I'm not talking about the following: we need to increase funding so that all childhood is fully treated, from pregnancy to childbirth, to disease treatment, to prevention, rehabilitation, and so on. I very much ask everyone, regardless of their political views, to join in on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u25	Thank you! So, colleagues, all the speeches and statements are exhausted, which were in the foreclosure. And we're moving on to the issue of order of the day. I want to remind you, we completed last plenary week's review of draft Law 6232, Amendment 665. I invite the committee head to the rostrum. I want to remind you that there is an unprecedentedly large bill. We've been looking at it for the third plenary day, and I'm asking all the people's deputies to work as effectively as possible so that we don't get the right procedure. It's very important for us this week to go to the review of pension reform so that we can look at it by 1 October. And so I'm asking all the people's deputies to work effectively, systematically and work for the result, not to discredit the very atmosphere of the second reading of the bill. I invite you now to the words of Ruslan Knazevitch so that he can remind us of our previous discussion in one minute. And I'd like to ask the authors of the 665th Amendments. The fourth? Now he's going to remind Ruslan whether we've considered it or not. If there's a fourth, there's no problem with that. Mr. Ruslan, do you need a minute? Please, one minute, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u26	I'd like, if I may, to place some very short accents, summarizing the discussion that took place for two days. I'm sure I'll have plenty of time when we get to the bottom of this. But I'll tell you what, first of all, about what sounded like today from the rostrum, about the comments of lawyers who weren't included. The vast majority of all legal comments are taken into account in the form of amendments on behalf of members of the committee. Sadly, though, during the previous review, these amendments were both confirmed and not passed. So when we're done, we'll probably have to go back to the suggestions that the lawyers made, and maybe I hope that the session room will have the wisdom to take them into account in the final consideration. For the purpose of raising the rates of the court. Again today, it is not true from the rostrum. Once again, on behalf of the committee, I want to calm society, calm Ukrainian citizens. There will be no increase in the rates of the court, and the second reading committee decided to remove these rules from the draft, respectively, by modifying the procedural codes. What is more, two new institutions are being established: this is an orderly conduct and a peace agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u27	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u28	It is suggested that the lowering coefficients be applied: minus 20 percent on command and minus 50 percent on the peace treaty. That is, if you choose another alternative way of looking at the congregation, you pay 20 percent or 50 percent less than tomorrow. So let us speak the truth and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Do you mind if we vote 664 or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u30	Yeah, it's 665, we passed 665.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u31	Did we vote on the 4th? No, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u32	We didn't vote. Please, 664 revisions. Well, the committee head says they voted. Okay, please, 664. Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u33	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. It is now the beginning of a review of the so-called judicial reform, which is actually making people's rights to communicate with the judicial system significantly worse. This was claimed by the lawyers, the lawyers of the country, and the deputies were asked not to vote in favour of the destruction of Ukraine’s judicial system. This is another element of the President's usurpation of power. 664 says that only very wealthy people can now go to court. It is now necessary to pay even for the exorcism of evidence, that is, for the court to approve the person’s obligation to file documents with the court. We suggest we remove this rule and put it to the vote now. In this case, if you're being tried by a large corporation and you need the documents of this corporation to protect you, and you don't have the money, you won't need them. So take this position, this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u34	I bet on the vote of amendment 664. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. I would like to remind you that there will be no time for consideration of the rights. There's a minute, it's automatically added to 6 seconds, there's no time to add during consideration. [[10:37:49]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 65th. Don't insist. 66th. Do Not Urge 67th. He insists. 67 revisions. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u35	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know that the United Nations has determined in its report on human development that 60 percent of Ukrainians are outside the poverty line. Now the bill on so-called judicial reform, which is proposed, practically shuts down the courts for people outside the poverty line, which is 60 percent of the people. So here's the 667 amendment that once again the courts are only for the rich. Article 126 of the draft provides that the court may require both parties to advance court expenses in advance. If the party lacks funds, it can simply lose the case or not be allowed to justice at all, to establish justice. Therefore, we suggest that article 126 be repealed. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u36	Whoever supports Amendment 667, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[10:39:20]] For-58 58. The decision is not made. 668. Don't insist. 669. Don't insist. 670. Don't insist. 671. 670. He insists. Please. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u37	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. There is now a struggle in this room to prevent propaganda from being allowed instead of judicial reform. Once again, I emphasize that this judicial reform is practically a man’s attack. Absolutely the monopoly of lawyers, people are not allowed to involve legal professionals at all. In addition, the court may oblige the applicant to pay for this article. Pay the lawyer's attorney. And if the plaintiff doesn't have the money to do that, leave the application blank. This means that in addition to the judicial congregation, you need to pay a small sum to protect the defendant. But there's a free legal aid system in place in the country that the defendant who doesn't have the money can always use. This is already a level of discrimination that has never existed in the country. Please cancel this article, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u38	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 670. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:40:54]] Z-65. 65. The decision is not made. 673. Don't insist. 675. Don't insist. 677. Don't insist. 678. Vlasenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u39	Thank you. My colleagues, you know, when I heard the factions of the majority factions today, I had a full shower since June 2010, when the Janukovich Act on the judiciary and the status of judges was reported. The same Cossacks were told not to stand still, and judicial reform must be carried out, and we all remember what Janukovic’s judicial reform led to. And the second is my déjà vu -- September 2015 -- when Peter Poroshenko told us all, and let's adopt a law on fair trial -- and you'll all be happy the next day, and that's already going to be a judicial reform. For two years, the country sees what is happening. In addition to the usurpation of Januković’s influence on the courts, nothing happens. People do not get honest, just decisions. And my amendment is that legal aid is a broader issue than representation by lawyers in court. Then, if legal aid costs are to be reimbursed, it is not only the costs of a lawyer in a court of law that all legal aid costs must be reimbursed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u40	678, who supports, please vote. [[10:42:28]] For-59 59 for. The decision is not made. 679th. Odarchenko insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u41	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we've talked about the fact that this bill now foresees that the plaintiff has to pay the defendant. Dear friends, it's all nonsense, and there's some very grim prices for these lawyers. A lawyer's salary at the expense of the other party must be limited by some reasonable figure. It's just not possible to rely on a judge here. I would like to point out that the marginal cost of a lawyer's work cannot be more than 30 percent of the living minimum per hour, and the assistant lawyer can be 10 percent of the minimum. With this kind of money, it is possible to find a good lawyer. And if the party wants to get an elite lawyer, it has to be done at their own expense, otherwise, you see how banks, Oblenergo hires lawyers for a thousand dollars an hour, of course, for the purpose of getting rid of it. Guys, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u42	679th vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:44:01]] For-55 The decision is not made. 682. Don't insist. 694th. Don't insist. 686. Don't insist. 687. Don't insist. 687th, right? Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. There has been a very unfair moment in the system of bringing the judicial congregation together for many years. Imagine you filed a lawsuit and the judge illegally returned it to you, you sued this approval, you paid 1,600 dollars of the court and you won, you canceled the case, you brought the case back to the first instance, in the next instance, you won the court, and it turns out that this 1,600 dollars should pay you back the defendant, but it has nothing to do with that money, and it's up to you why he should pay the judge for the mistake. I propose that if the appeal is dismissed, the defendant will be returned to the paid court, and the State will have to pay the State for the error. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u44	687. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Vote. [[10:45:24]] For-57 The decision is not made. 688. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u45	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In fact, I would like to stress once again that the draft law specifically does not aim at any reform of the judicial system, and as a result, people do not get the fair, just legal decisions that they so expect. The maximum that people get is in their paws, of course, this is total control over the judicial system and nothing more. We've been praised here for a Supreme Court contest, look at the results of this contest, it's either former judges, the most ostrich, or some part of lawyers from the former Loší Filatov firm, or someone else from the Loší Filatov district, that's all going to be there, the Supreme Court. With regard to the amendment, the amendment indicates that if there has been a refusal to sue, but before the matter is resolved, essentially, or the party has made a peace treaty, we offer to return not 50 percent of the congregation but 100 percent of the congregation. Because the court does not really settle any dispute in this situation, and the parties have agreed to settle the dispute peacefully among themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u46	688 votes. Please vote, the committee has turned down. [[10:46:53]] For-54 The decision is not made. 689. I called her, I called her, I'm talking again. I can pick up your transcript and tell you I called it. We won't go back to the amendments. I called her, I just said, there's going to be some adjustments, I give my word, I call every correction. 689. Don't insist. 690. Don't insist. 691. Don't insist. 692. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u47	Tymoshenko, Fatherland. I would like to point out that now all the progressive adjustments to this, let's say, fiction called "Court Reform" are supported by 59, 60 people's deputies. This is the real democratic pro-European opposition that refuses to allow, firstly, the usurpation of the judiciary by the President, and secondly, the total distortion of the Ukrainian judicial system because of its reprisal. And now it's number 692, where it's the judge's right to remove the trial participants from the courtroom, even at the slightest guilt. This is just an article in the name of Judge Kiriev when he threw everyone he didn't want to see in the trial. We propose that this article be repealed and that such rights be expressly denied to judges. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u48	692. Anyone who supports it, please vote back, the committee has turned down. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u49	This is a revision to the non-existent part, there's no third part, and there's no revision to the third part. [[10:48:51]] Z-71 71. The decision is not made. 694. Don't insist. 695. He insists. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u50	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, regulation 695 applies to the same repressive mechanisms that are introduced in this bill, which have absolutely nothing to do with reforming the judicial system, but only increases the penal function of the courts and their dependence on Dusty and its administration. So, what's this about? The point is that this article imposes fines. What are fines for? In particular, I quote, paragraph 2, "abuse of procedural rights," what does this law impose on the abuse of procedural rights? If you've filed two withdrawals, it's an abuse of procedural rights. If you've had two troubles and the judge's gone crazy and thought it was the same thing as abuse of rights. If you walked into a room that was supposed to be too small and the court order told you not to come in here, and that's the reason why it's an abuse of rights. And so on and so on and so forth. And for that, you're all fined. And I want to say that according to the theory of legal science, a fine can't be a subject of procedural coercion, but it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u51	695. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:50:24]] For-74. 74. The decision is not made. 698. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u52	Tymoshenko, Fatherland. I'm talking to the people's deputies right now. I understand you don't go to court, you always have a "breath" to which you can turn. But I'm asking you to join the work on this propaganda, which is called judicial reform, because there is virtually no one who has virtually all their rights if they want to go to court. And the fact that the courts are essentially turning into catholics, I can say exactly on line 698. This codex provides for completely inadequate punishment for minor violations. For example, if the party failed to file a document in time, the fine ranged from 3,000,200 dollars to 32,000 dollars. What are you doing? The president who runs this campaign by his name and the deputies who support it. We insist that we vote on this amendment and abolish these dragon fines for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u53	698. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. It's a committee against it. [[10:51:52]] For-72 The decision is not made. 702. Don't insist. 703. He insists, doesn't he? Tymoshenko, 703.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u54	I thank you for adding 12 of the 60 deputies, and 72 of the national deputies have already voted in favour of the correct rights to this mess, which has been called a judicial reform. Now 703 is correct. Consider that courts are used not only by wealthy corporations but also by ordinary Ukrainians. Imagine, for example, a small entrepreneur on whom a tenant rented a room. The entrepreneur failed to respond in a timely manner or a fine of 32,000 dollars. Do you have a conscience?Oh, my God! And if he's still a little out of order during this process, fines up to 160,000 dollars. So I ask the whole room: vote in favour of cancelling this article. This is essentially the destruction of the parties to the trial, this destruction of the person who has appealed to the court, the restriction of his access to justice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u55	703. Anyone who supports it, please vote. It's a committee against it. [[10:53:25]] For-79 The decision is not made. 706. Don't insist. 707. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 706 Sidorovich. And then 707, Timoshenko. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It seems like a technical amendment that relates to definition or the use of the word "repeated" or the word "systematic." But at the same time, the same article uses completely different terms, which in their application process can cause a completely different interpretation and a completely different understanding. What is it? This is the absence of the principle of legal certainty. There is no legal definition; there is no rule of law; there is no rule of law; there is no rule of law; there is no rule of law. That is why it is important not to write such codes on your knees but slowly, gradually, to write each definition. So I'm asking you to apply for confirmation. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u57	I bet on the vote of amendment 706. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please. [[10:54:43]] For-63 The decision is not made. 707. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u58	Tymoshenko, Fatherland. I'd like to speak to the national deputies again. Thank you for voting up to 80 deputies for progressive, correct remedies that are consistent with civil society, with lawyers, with people who actually defend the rights of people in the legal field. Dear friends, not only against those involved in the trial, but also against a lawyer. Imagine that the court required a lawyer to file a document, but the lawyer was forbidden to do so. So, if a lawyer has executed an assignment from his practically vulnerable client, he has to pay a fine of 160,000 dollars, a lawyer. Tell me, when was this, and in what world practice is this? We should cancel this article and ask everyone to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u59	I bet on the vote of amendment 707. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee's against it. [[10:56:13]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 710. Don't insist. 711. Don't insist. 712. Don't insist. 714, Schrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u60	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is an important technical regulation where you have to replace the words "or they're going to be paid to the defendant and they're either there or there" with the word "response." But, colleagues, we need to understand that this should all look systemic. For example, in article 138, paragraph 4, there is a position that, according to the conclusion and the scientific and legal administration and the statements of the Civil Society of Jurists, is not in line with article 19 of the Constitution at all. And, fellows, I'm noting that we have civil society organizations that deal with judicial reform and deal with it, make a big statement, it's a reanimation package of reforms and Honesty, and the Center for Political and Legal Reforms, where they say we can't look at this bill like that and we can't approve it in general unless the rules of procedure are upheld. And they're giving a lot of things there that they're talking about today, both Fatherland and Self-Help. Colleagues, please, come on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u61	714. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee's against it. Please. [[10:57:37]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 715. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I do. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Now, I want to go to the hall and to the television audience, see, right now in this room, the authorities are trying to form a completely engaged court, a judicial car that will punish anyone who is going to be in trouble or material or political interests of those who are in power. I want to talk to MPs who are so neutral right now, as if that doesn't apply to them, they'll take it. Tomorrow these laws, they'll hit you, too. Today, if you have enough money to go through this procedure, tomorrow you will not be able to stand up for your rights. My application relates to the provision of a lawsuit by means of an obligation to do certain things. The law now proposes to apply this tool, but in our view it is a very dangerous thing. Thus, it is suggested that a court order, such as an obligation to do certain things, be disfellowshipped.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u63	715. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. It's a committee against it. [[10:59:08]] For-57 The decision is not made. 716. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, once again a very dangerous point: the court has the right to provide suit in other ways. All these other ways of judging the judge. Imagine, there are no clear criteria. A judge may be able to apply a certain standard by telling him how he would like it or what bribe he would be given. We stress that it is very difficult to file a lawsuit without delay. Thus, the damage to various creative provisions can be virtually incorrigible. It is suggested that this option be deleted. We can't even imagine what genius we're going to have. To our conviction, the authorities today propose to include items that will destroy any political pluralism, any opposition that will go against power. Today, they are trying to give the sword to the authorities, who will cut off all the heads that will criticize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u65	716. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:00:40]] For-57 A Decision Not Made 719. Don't insist. 720. He insists. Odarchenko. 720.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Well, unfortunately, the entire section on the lawsuit was written only with the idea of the plaintiffs. The answer may be right in the dispute, the authors of the codex did not think at all. Therefore, it is imperative to include a restrictive norm, and the enforcement of a suit cannot cause the defendant harm that is impossible or very difficult to remove. Otherwise we'll see approvals like: ban the defendant from selling goods, and in a month his business is gone. Therefore, a standard of assessment is needed. If the defendant wins, will he be able to compensate for his losses?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u67	It's a 720 amendment. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee didn't support it. Please vote. [[11:01:59]] For-59 The decision is not made. 721. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u68	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, in fact, we see that the authorities are really trying to close the doors of the courts so that the information and the decisions they make there are not accessible to the whole public. I'm paying attention, Mr. Ruslan Knazevich, to your performance. You said that something had been corrected and prepared for the second reading. Thus, the General Legal Office clearly defines 52 draft legal acts that do not balance each other. You're going to destroy the system completely and completely. And in the right, please put it to a vote, I'm trying to add part 12 to article 138, "surrender a lawsuit by arresting money in bank accounts through an automated cost arrest system," not only applies to the matters defined in paragraphs 1 to 8 of the first part of article 21 of this Code. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u69	721. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. It's a committee against it. [[11:03:22]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 725. Don't insist. He insists. 725, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u70	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Now I'm talking to entrepreneurs, business people who might be watching a broadcast of the Supreme Council meeting. Dear colleagues, in this Code of Procedure, which is now being proposed by the authorities, there are no criteria at all that the court should apply when securing a lawsuit. A court of law can do anything in other codes. And here they just forgot to include them, I'm sure on purpose. We propose to complement the GCC with the best foreign experience, the criteria used by courts in the European Union and the United States. They're tested at times, they're easy to understand, and they actually allow us to figure out how to secure a lawsuit in a way that makes it impossible for us to continue to abuse things like securing a lawsuit. I'm asking you to put our vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u71	725 supporters, please vote. The committee turned it down. [[11:04:55]] For-56 727. Don't insist. 732. Don't insist. 739. Don't insist. 739, please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u72	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, well, I want to say this is a technical thing, but it's very important. The authors of the project forgot to include the grounds for the cancellation of the lawsuit. It is suggested that the reasons for this may be: the replacement of the facts of the case, the evidence that the defendant has given the court inaccurate information, the fact that the enforcement of the suit violates the rights of persons who are not parties to the case. Such clarification is essential, since the court’s case is secured without a call from the parties. Therefore, the other party should have the right to challenge the words of the respondent and to review the proceedings. Please put our vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u73	739. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:06:16]] For-59 The decision is not made. 745. Don't insist. 747. Don't insist. 752. Don't insist. 753. Do Not Urge It's 753, right? 753, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u74	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to draw your attention, dear fellow national MPs in the hall. It seems like we're building not open normal European courts here, but Moscow courts, because I'm just going to set an example. As we arrived at the Basman Court to support our colleague, we clearly saw the judge choosing the very little room, the judge establishing the aunt, and then we lack space in this room. I want to draw attention, colleagues, to Victor's Creature, who also saw it in his own eyes. So let's not do these things and make our courts normal, civilized, European, those that allow society to control everything that's going on in those walls and the decisions that are being made there. The rest will serve only to ensure that large - scale megacorruption takes place there and that decisions are made by agreement or authority, or by those who give bribes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u75	Please vote. 753rd, please vote. [[11:07:58]] For-56 Amendment number 761. Please, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u76	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, this room now has a bill on the usurpation of the judiciary by the President and the restrictions on access to justice, and also the destruction of the remains of a fair court in Ukraine. Now I'm paying attention to the journalists: please see how many deputies are sitting in the room to vote for judicial reform. If it gets to a hundred, it'll be very good, because no one needs it, because in the towers, giving out bribes and budget cuts, they've already agreed on who's going to vote for this disgrace. But I want to look at 761. The court order is that it is introduced by these new codes, where the court does not hold a sitting, does not spend time determining the circumstances, does not invite parties, does nothing. We are definitely against such a type of court, but this is the case with the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Vote, 761, please. [[11:09:32]] For-64 The decision is not made. Amendment number 767. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Dear colleagues, I think all these reformers in the hands of the judicial system have to be forgotten about the disgrace of Janukovich's judicial reform, we have to forget about January 16 laws, we have to forget a lot of things, because what's going on here is compared to what I mentioned, it's just a shame at all. So the reforms in 16 January's paws are exactly the same as what we're now offered. And the usurpation of Janukovich's judicial authority looks like a kindergarten compared to what he's creating with the Prašenko court system. And Amendment 767 refers to the following. You know, if you've deprived the parties of all rights, if you've made this trial almost closed, at least let me at least let the parties know about all the proceedings, including the issuing of a court order. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u79	Please vote, 767 amendments. [[11:10:59]] For-65 For 65. Decision taken. Next amendment number 770. Please, 771. Who's it gonna be? Please, National Deputy Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u80	Olenna's Shroom, the Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this amendment should be submitted for confirmation because this amendment removed the requirement for a sealing of a court order. And I think it can have significant very risks from the point of view of document falsification in general, especially in our unreformed, unjust, corrupt, often corrupt courts. Colleagues, I'm pointing out that these things, they are actually undoing all the progressive changes that maybe there are in these laws and in these codes. And, colleagues, it's not just me, it's not just the Fatherland faction, it's what the Centre for Political Reform says, it's what the court is talking about, it's what the court is talking about, it's a relief package of reforms, it's what the lawyers are talking about every day in the courts. Well, you can't, without reforming our courts so far, and with huge corruption there, you can't set rules that allow the courts to usurp power just like Prashenko did, make arbitrary decisions, arbitrary decisions, not let people go to court, ban television, broadcast and virtually fake court documents. These things are very dangerous to the state, to the institutions of the state as a whole. Don't ruin it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u81	Thank you. Please vote, amendment number 771, for confirmation. [[11:12:38]] For-37 Please, one minute, the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u82	Look, there's no questions, there's going to be a first edition where they're going to testify to the seal of the court. It was just since this law was written that we have passed a special law that we are leaving the seals at all. We need to define conceptually whether we're leaving what was, whether we want it to move as it did in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u83	Thank you. Amendment number 773. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u84	I don't know what or where the committee's gone from, but I have a clear impression that the committee has gone towards the usurpation of the court power of Dustenk, that's for sure. And everything else, you know, Cossacks for the poor. So once again, here's the situation. This law has only one purpose. This law certainly does not aim to create an honest, transparent system of justice. This law is designed to introduce procedures that will make the process worse. In particular, 773 amendments again address the issue of this Single State Register and the electronic procedures introduced by this law. And then, please support the 773 amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:14:07]] For-58 For-58. The decision is not made. Amendment 781. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u86	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Ruslan, I ask you to explain the logic of the committee. A court order was issued, the debtor applied for his cancellation, and the application was granted, and the order was cancelled. What Happens to the Court? The court order makes it clear that he is not returning, but he may be counted if a suit is filed in general. What, though, happens to the judicial congregation that should pay off the debtor for cancelling the court order? If the debtor was right and no one was innocent, who would return the court to him for filing a motion for annulment? What if the plaintiff doesn't come forward and the case is over? It is proposed to delete the fee for filing an appeal for annulment of a court order, as there are no answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Will you comment? No, it's not. Please vote. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. 781st. [[11:15:36]] For-59 The decision is not made. Amendment 783. Don't insist. Amendment No. 785. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u88	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! In general, this whole law is a disgrace to today's power, which calls itself democratic. Because it is very sad that under the terms of transparency of the fair courts, completely usurperistic methods of managing the judicial system are being extended. I want to remind you of how this happened with the NCRECR. Also, under the terms of a fair tariff analysis, CNRECR has been created and it is as if a wolf has been assigned. And the only goal of this Wolf is to maintain high tariffs for utility services in the favor of Dusty's sole purpose, and the basis was the same beautiful slogans and the same silent reporter was standing in our rostrum. This law on the judiciary has far more consequences than the law on the NCRECR. My amendment is technical, please support her vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u89	Please vote. [[11:17:09]] For-64 The decision is not made. Please, amendment number 795. 791st. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u90	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, note what is planned in the 163rd article to provide that the court order must meet the other requirements laid down by law. I believe that the exclusive list of claims for a lawsuit must be provided for by law, there can be no other requirement, since in this case it will be possible to refuse to open the case. Therefore, our faction’s proposal to exclude part five of article 63 and to provide for an exclusive list of requirements for the application of article 163. I'd like a colleague to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Please vote 791. [[11:18:32]] For-57 The decision is not made. Amendment number 795. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u92	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it's a technical exercise, but it's very important, in our view. It is proposed to clarify the requirements for the formulation of the application, namely, if it is submitted by a representative, to include information about the representative. This is necessary for a valid channel of calls and messages. At present, the petitions always contain information about the plaintiffs. Let's leave that requirement in the new codex. I'm asking you to support my work. I don't understand why this money came from your project. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u93	Please vote. [[11:19:41]] For-67 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 798. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u94	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is also a technical matter, but please listen and support. It is suggested that paper circulation and tree conservation be reduced. Since one of the key features of this code is electronic litigation, it is suggested that if the party has an official e - mail address, it might be possible to send a scanned application with an appendix. There is no point in introducing electronic litigation, but there is simply no need to preserve the party’s responsibility, to copy hundreds of pages of lawsuits in many copies. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u95	Please vote. [[11:20:53]] For-60 For -60. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 801. Don't you insist? The next amendment is 808. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! I am now addressing those lawyers who are present in the hall and those lawyers who are watching the broadcast of our session. If we're talking about the economic process being dissipating in its essence, we have to endure this logic from the beginning to the end. It's about the response institution, first of all, it's oil, because it's called back, and it's called back. God with that answer, but why is there no norm that, in the absence of that answer, the court is considering the case for the material available in it? I propose that the article be supplemented with an appropriate part, that the absence of such a rule in the future may lead to totally unfounded cancellations at the level of case-related cases and to a new consideration, which is certainly a violation of article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, access to justice. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:22:23]] For-67 For 67. The decision is not made. The next is 809 revisions. 809th, Sirodorovitch, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Again, the same logic continues. In article 168, we propose to add part five, the following content, "in the event that the defendant does not object to a court-appointed term without valid reasons, the court decides the case for the material available." The submission of documents by the party or the plaintiff or the respondent or the parties to the dispute in no way should be an obstacle to the case. Moreover, all practices know that in some cases, the parties abuse their right to make or not to file documents with a view to delaying the proceedings and thus to obtain what is desired for themselves and the unwelcome outcome for the other party, thereby manipulating the court and delaying the proceedings. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u99	Please vote. [[11:23:49]] For-60 The decision is not made. Amendment 810. Please, People's Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u100	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, now very much at the level of the government, the President is talking about the need for investment in the economy of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, no investor who is familiar with these changes to the procedural codes will be willing to invest in Ukraine if he is not a friend of the President, a friend of the President's friends, because this system today forms a completely protective system towards people close to the President, to power. So today, the adoption of these laws, the vote in favour of them actually shuts down Ukraine's ability to make investments, because no "healthy" investor will invest money in Ukraine, building the prospect of profiting from their investments, just on friendly relations with the authorities. My rights apply to third parties, please put them on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u101	One minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u102	I'd like to quote what this third person thing is. The point is that the parties to the case have the right, according to the author of the amendment, to submit, note, written replies to the explanation of "third parties". What Answers? There are no questions asked. It's about what's going on in the process, and all the rest of the parties are listening. They can provide some explanation eventually. But what are the answers if the third party doesn't have any questions to the participant. At least look at what you're writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u103	Thank you. Please vote. For-51 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 816th. Don't insist. 818. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, 815! Please, yes! National MP Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u104	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention once again to the consideration of the so-called "fake judicial reform." The Supreme Council Hall is practically empty. Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch, who was simply turned off the microphone, stands on the rostrum. He's not responding to any of the revisions because he thinks it's below his. His dignity, because everything that's going on here is absolutely – absolutely! - I don't care, because in the towers they've already recruited votes to vote in favour of this disgrace, which they call "ship reform." Only 70 or so members of the Supreme Council are currently fighting for this law in order to make it even a little bit adequate, to everyone else — they don't care. And now the 815th ruling that if minor errors were to be made in response to an application, the court would fine someone who made such minor mistakes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u105	Please vote. [[11:27:33]] For-61 The decision is not made. 816, not necessarily. 818. 818th, will you comment? National MP Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u106	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, once again, if we're going to electronic courtship, the late application with the added materials should be sent electronically. Often it's hundreds of pages, it's a huge amount of paper, and often it's too much paper, because the answerer still has a piece of evidence. It is therefore proposed that a copy of the application and the documents added to it be sent to the official e - mail addresses of the parties, and if not available, the documents are traditionally sent. Please put our vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u107	Please vote. [[11:28:47]] For-53 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 820. Please, the author of the People's Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u108	Yuri Odarchenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm holding the Chief Legal Officer's observation right now, this is 60 pages. And lawyers who understand what a state is, a state that is the destruction of a state, are firm against the adoption of this bill. They view it as harmful and inconsistent with the Constitution and the legislation in force. And the amendment applies, now there's some very strange rule in the code -- if cases are brought together, they're being considered by a judge who's previously discovered leadership, and if they're open on one day -- to someone who's decided to unite. This is wrong because it breeds misunderstandings between judges. Moreover, since there are no charges against the unification of cases, it is possible for one judge to take them into another, bringing them together with his own. It is suggested that in unifying matters be always directed to the judge she was to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u109	Please vote. [[11:30:20.]] For-59 The decision is not taken. No. 821. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u110	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, once again a minor violation and a great sanction. You suggest that the application be returned immediately without leaving it motionless if it is signed by the person who did not have the right to sign it, not signed or not signed. Dear colleagues, if the lawsuit was wrongly signed by the wrong representative, or did the representative forget to mention the word "representative" or "lawyer," why should we immediately file a lawsuit without consideration? This should be a motionless solution to the problems involved. The same is true with authority: If a person forgets to attach confidence or the right to sign a lawsuit is not clearly indicated in this trust, it should be time to remedy the flaws rather than return a lawsuit without consideration. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u111	Please vote. [[11:31:50]] For-49 The decision is not made. 833rd. 832th, please. National Deputy Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u112	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I'll explain my position. It is important to place this amendment for confirmation, since the amendment removes the situation under which, if the applicant has objected to a simplified procedure, the court has previously approved it. Now the court is not going to approve this, and in fact it turns out that nowhere is this procedural decision going to be fixed and not reflected. And so I'm sorry, but in the context of an unreformed judicial system, in the terms of, unfortunately, the corrupt judges that we now have, and the abuse of judges, this will be another opportunity to work simply against citizens, against conscientious prosecutors. So I propose not to endorse and vote against this amendment. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u113	Thank you. One minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u114	The committee did not object to the fact that the first reading would remain, but it was an offer of lawyers that we supported. If you feel that it is inappropriate, it will be as it was in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u115	Please vote. [[11:33:13]] For-45 The decision is not made. 833rd. Please, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u116	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is the amendment I've already discussed. Both the committee and Mr. Knazevitch know my position here. I think that if we have 1 million 700,000 officially registered displaced persons, if we don't know their place of official residence or their place of official work, we can't bring them to court just on the Ukrainian court's portal. Colleagues, this should be done in the same way that it was done, including in the printed media. At least two more, three years. And here, colleagues. Well, that's the position I was trying to stand for in the task force. The question is, how many of you are here in this room right now can call what is the address of the court portal of our state administration, where it seems to be possible to bring people to justice. So, colleagues, I think it's inappropriate to do this right now. We really need an electronic court, but we also need to leave the procedure to inform the plaintiff, the potential, in the print media. And that's what this amendment is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u117	One minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u118	We've already had our discussions. The point is, if we do not know where a person lives, in what printed medium in such a territory we should print such a message. That's why. Listen, well, do you imagine a government courier will print every message? The point is that it must be the local authority as it was before. We deliberately threw ourselves out, considering that it's much easier for a person to find information on the Internet than to find information in an unknown media medium that doesn't know where to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:35:12]] For-54 The decision is not made. 834th National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u120	I want to talk to the audience. The Supreme Council has such a structure as the Chief Legal Authority. The people of Ukraine, on the basis of taxes, are keeping a large state of lawyers whose job is to correct if there is something wrong with the bills and to point out where there is a violation of legislation. I want to read the conclusions. A preliminary analysis of the text of the bill indicates that the bill does not take constitutional rules into account, does not comply with other legislative acts, does not contain internal disagreements. It does not take into account European standards on clarity, clarity, clarity, tenacity, consistency, efficiency, efficiency and proportionality of the law. Dear colleagues, this is the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is analyzing it, doing everything in its power not to make mistakes. No matter what they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u121	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:36:41]] For-53 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 836. National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u122	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. I want to keep going. In spite of their firm conclusion, the committee representative may have a clear task of extending the bill in such an order. That's why he's standing there silently, saying nothing. Well, I hope he's ashamed of what he represents right now. And Amendment 836, it's about the following. At present, in the economic process, it is 60 days since the opening of the case. And it may be extended for 15 days. This is why domestic justice is the fastest in the country. But you suggest that in 60 days there be only preparation for the trial. Then it could be continued for another month. Three months before the first session instead of two months for the whole process! It's not reform, it's anti-reform. It is suggested that the current time schedules be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Please put to the vote. [[11:38:07]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 839. 840. 839th National Deputy Yvchenko. Oh, Lord, I'm sorry, national deputy Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u124	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, ma'am. You know, I'm so not only so dissonance and obstruction of everything that's going on in the hall, but also the inner belief that there's some kind of complete saviour going on in the hall right now. I want to draw the Ukrainians' attention to the fact that this is systemic in nature, to remind them that we in this room in the early 15th year passed Law 1165, under the authority of Julia Timoshenko and Fatherland, on private charges. What do we see on the way out today? Mega-corruption in all branches of government. It is this law that could enable society to fight corruption. So right now, we see the doors of the courts closing, restricting access to everything that's going on. And the amendment applies to article 179. I would like to add part four to the sentence: "The order of dispatch is defined in the first article of this Code." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u125	One minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u126	That's a very indicative essence of the proposal. It is suggested that part four be completed with new sentences. And in this article, there are only two parts. And that's 99 percent of the right. People didn't even see it, they didn't read the original edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:40:00]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 840. None. 840th People's Deputy Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u128	Thank you, ma'am. I would now like to address the head of the committee, Ruslan Knazevitch. You are better off than making any remarks that are inconceivable, and you should see for yourself what you wrote there. This is the first time. Secondly, in fact, if there's an amendment, and there's not two, there's four parts, then notice that, because you accept, I understand what's in this reform. So 840 amendments to article 79. In part six, the word "trust or other document confirming the authority of the representative of the respondent" should be replaced by the words "appropriate document confirming the authority of the representative of the respondent in accordance with the requirements laid down in article 61 of the Code." Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u129	Please vote. [[11:41:22]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 851st National Deputy Alona Skrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u130	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. First, I want to thank the head of the committee that my amendments he comments more often than others. And I ask him to continue to comment, because we need these debates and these discussions. I just hope that some of these things that we're proposing will be accepted, or else we're ruining the entire Master's Process and Process. This amendment specifically refers to the fact that it is not up to the court to set up a preparatory session, whether the parties wish to address, for example, the mediation procedure, the settlement of the dispute. This would be very useful because we are now trying to regulate the mediation procedure in the bill. That would simplify the number of rights that would come to court, which would reduce the amount of budget spending. And I think that would be very right. In addition, it is also stated at the time of the first reading that if a dispute is referred to another judge, this other judge will already set the terms and procedures for the settlement of the dispute, not the one that passes it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u131	Please vote. [[11:42:42]] For-57
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u132	The decision is not made. 853. He insists. Please, Yvchenka. Ichchenkov, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that my colleagues have raised questions about the critical points made by the Legal Department, regarding the critical points made by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. I want to tell you briefly what else the public is talking about, what judicial experts are talking about. First. This bill gives judges considerable repressive powers, and the corresponding articles are listed. The court will be able to limit access to the courtroom in the corresponding article. The court of its own discretion will be able to prohibit photofixion and video recording. This is for the publicity of court hearings. The court will not publicly declare judicial decisions, we have come to understand where it will go. The bill allows the parties to engage some strange legal experts. And that's the threat. I ask the Head: Think, you are making this reform a reprisal today, and people will be wronged before the courts. And I ask you to support this exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u134	853. Please vote who supports the committee against. Please. [[11:44:20]] For-52 52. The decision is not made. 854. Yvchenka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u135	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to continue and say that the judge is given the authority to meet in secret with the participants in the trial, and then, if you'll excuse me, he can decide on the need for a preparatory meeting. Is that a judicial reform? I ask you to comment, comment on those forensic experts who are giving you a comment today. And the main thing is, let's vote and send out the second reading again. This bill is by no means acceptable, and it definitely makes things worse and gives a blow after the Dignity Revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u136	854. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:45:23]] For-53 53. The decision is not made. 856. Odarchenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u137	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this law applies to so - called quick justice. If the court finds that even if the prosecutor leads to all the circumstances that he refers to and is best interpreted for him, he still loses because he is wrong under the law. The court does not have a full court hearing but closes the proceedings at the very beginning. A similar mechanism is proposed. This mechanism works in the United States and in Europe. It's suggested that we put in place a similar time-saving mechanism. We suggest that the court closes the case if the action cannot be satisfied by law regardless of the circumstances of the case. This mechanism will do much to save time in Ukraine, and the same is true in Europe and the United States. We also need to absorb this good experience rather than invent a bicycle.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u138	856. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:46:51]] For-38 38. The decision is not made. 860. Scrum insists. Schrome microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u139	Colleagues! My colleagues, first of all, will now have a whole series of my rights and my colleagues' rights regarding what is a separate institution of mediation and a separate settlement of the dispute by the judge. Not every judge can be a so-called mediator or mediator in a case, it has to be a person who has, has professional reconciliation skills, and it's not a judge who deals with the issue in fact, that's what we understand. Here. So I'm going to put these amendments on confirmation, and it's important, and these adjustments are prepared, including by the mediation community that gave them to us. In fact, the introduction of a third person who claims to be independent may not be the subject of a settlement of the dispute at the expense of reconciliation. Why not, if a third person does not deny why it should be a judgment and must be brought to court immediately. I believe that this should not be the case, and if a third person does not object, it can continue to be settled in the reconciliation or mediation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u140	860. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:48:06]] Z-62 The decision is not made. 862. Don't insist. 864. Don't insist. 868. Don't insist. 871. Don't insist. 873. 873, please. 873. 873.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u141	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, all these adjustments, they're extremely important to the mediation community and to those who know what mediation is and what a judicial solution is. If we settle this right with you, we'll seriously reduce the number of lawsuits, we'll save the budget, we'll, by the way, raise Ukraine's ratings in the so-called Doing Business if we regulate the pre-trial settlement of disputes, the reconciliation process and mediation. Regrettably, today's Mediation Bill, which was proposed by me and my colleagues, is not accepted in second reading and is in the working group on the committee of Mr. Knazević, and here it is proposed that we do not have a comprehensive approach to settling only reconciliation with the judge. I think, for example, that a judge has to have special professional skills and special courses in order to do the mediation, and it has to be a different judge, not a judge who's already settled the case in fact. There must be a special register of people who can perform so - called mediation. These are very important topics that can help Ukraine get out of this circle of corrupt judges, mistrust.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u142	873. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned it down. [[11:49:52]] For-57 The decision is not made. 876. He insists. Scram.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u143	Colleagues, in the second part of article 190, I now propose a sentence of this kind. At the same time, the judge decides on the question of reinstatement of the case, and I suggest that this be removed. Because in order to make peace, the judge must once again, I repeat, have additional skills, be endowed with certain personalities, in fact characteristics. Let's face it, not every professional judge can actually make a peace settlement and be effective, so I suggest you just change this conceptually. And here, unfortunately, without supporting my rights and not supporting my position in the task force, we unfortunately do not regulate the normal procedure, the mediation, or the peaceful settlement of disputes. To that end, we need to review this philosophy, adopt the Mediation Law and make changes to the Mediation Law with a solution. This is an extremely important story that should have been adopted long ago. And if Ukraine were to adopt a mediation bill, we'd go up three points in the Doing Business rating to also involve investors, because investors trust much more than they trust Ukrainian courts, just like I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u144	876. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:51:21]] For-60 The decision is not made. 878. Don't insist. 880. 878, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u145	Colleagues, 878 revisions also apply to this issue. In fact, it is said here that in the event of an end to a dispute involving a judge on the grounds provided for in paragraph 1.3 earlier, the case shall not be later than the following day from the ruling on the termination of the settlement of the dispute, the referee shall return, which shall resume the conduct of the case within one working day and shall rule on the order which shall not be admissible. Unfortunately, this whole chapter contradicts the philosophy of the reconciliation procedure and the procedure of the mediation, which is supported by the faction of "The Fatherland" and I, as the author of the mediation bill, along with Mr. Borislav Brez and with other colleagues from different factions. And that's why I'm suggesting we review it anyway, colleagues, we. If you were to sit down and work hard, seriously in the working group about the discussions we have here in the hall. With the Self-Help faction, with the Fatherland faction, with the non-fractional MPs, we wouldn't need to put every amendment on confirmation, because we could make up for the fundamentally flaws and the usurpatory powers of the courts that are here right now. We'd open trials with you, we'd provide a normal reconciliation procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u146	878. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:52:56]] For-57 57. The decision is not made. 880 doesn't insist. 881. 880 - insists. Then it's 881. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u147	Thank you, colleagues. See, the settlement procedure provides for several meetings, both open and joint, to be held by a judge. And the actual conduct of these meetings should be combined with the main workload of the judge on the trial and the convenience for the parties to come to these meetings, for example, very often from other different cities, including. So I propose that the word "thirty" be replaced by the word "sixty." And give a time limit of at least two months for these issues. So, colleagues, this increase in time, I think it's not going to be a delay, it's going to be a normal procedure that can be stopped at the initiative of a judge. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you for confirmation, and I'm actually going to say again, why are we insisting on these checks? First of all, this is a normal legal discussion between the legal community and the lawyers who are now in the Supreme Council Hall. And I'm glad that lawyers from different factions are involved, including non-fractional ones. And secondly, if this discussion were to take place on a committee and the committee voted in favour of each amendment, it would discuss every amendment, as it was under the State Service Act, for example, on our committee, where we had six committees to amend, it would not be in the Hall right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u148	880 supporters, please vote. The committee turned it down. [[11:54:30]] For-52 The decision is not made. 881. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I report immediately on two issues: 881, 882. Dear colleagues, please tell us, Ukraine, an independent state with its culture, with its language, or further Moscow branch? I want to remind you that for the first time on Tuesday, we adopted the endowment of the Education Act, where, thank God, we were able to resolve certain language issues. Why can't we solve language issues in procedural codes? The remainder of the terminology that exists in Ukrainian law as an inheritance from the Soviet Union, where Russian language dictated appropriate terminology, continues to remain in procedural codes. Unfortunately, our revisions from 1st to 16th were not accepted, but there are still those terms that are, in fact, Russian. That's why the term "peace treaty" is proposed to replace the term "conciliation agreement" with a term that is Ukrainian in its essence. So I'd like to support 881 and 882.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u150	Thank you. Puts the vote to 881. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:55:58]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 882. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:56:16]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 884. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, distinguished business representatives who are now watching our broadcast, honourable colleagues who have come to Parliament from business and who have experience in court disputes! This amendment is extremely important because we have procedural codes for the institution to make a peace agreement at the stage of the court's decision. We have the right legislation, including enforcement legislation, as the peace agreement has been made since the opening of executive conduct. But we deprive the parties of the right to enter into a peace agreement after the moment of the court's decision by the time the enforcement is discovered, which in turn could lead to the blocking of bank accounts, the arrest of property, the mass of other negative consequences for the entire business transaction. Why do we deprive those who are willing to make arrangements? Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u152	884. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. [[11:57:45]] For-67 The decision is not made. 889. Don't insist. 890. Don't insist. 891. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 890. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u153	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this code provides for a very large number of rights for the presiding judge. In general, strange powers are given because it predominates everyone, colleagues. It is proposed to create a mechanism for complaining to the presiding officer, otherwise there may be situations where two judges disagree with the presiding officer in the case, and they cannot do anything about it. We suggest that the parties have the right to object to the action of the presiding officer. The chairman himself may correct his wrongdoing, or his colleagues may decide not to do so. In addition, the Court of Appeal will find it easier to handle cases with information about the denial of a decision against them. Today you're creating a system when no more college judges are going to make decisions, and you're doing everything you can to capture your influence -- one chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u154	890. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:59:23]] For-61 The decision is not made. 893. He insists. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u155	Julia Timoshenko. The "Fatherland" party team, working with civil society, with the Supreme Council's legal office, has prepared almost a thousand amendments to this completely unprofessional bill. And if that were accepted, we would get a completely different court system that would work for people to establish justice. But unfortunately, no one in power today, and first of all, the President needs a fair, fair court system, a puppet, and also a separation from justice. We insist that there be a vote of 893 laws, where it is established in general in this article, that if a person has not received, for example, a message that he has received, even if the court has been wrongly addressed or not at all known where he has sent it, a court may be held without a person. We suggest that we change that, and only if we're human.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u156	893 is put to the vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:00:53]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next one is 896. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 898. You insist. Then let's take a break, because it's 12 o'clock. Then, dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a recess of 30 minutes. At 12:30, we'll start with Amendment 896. So at 12:30, I invite everyone to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u157	Colleagues, break time is over. I ask the head of the committee to take the office of honor behind the presidency, at the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Knazevitch. I'm reminding you, we've stopped at Amendment 896. And after amendment 896, I give the word to Julia Timoshenko. 896.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u158	Tymoshenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are now continuing our consideration of judicial reform, which is not really the case. In fact, this judicial reform is a fake, and it is a denial of people's right to access the justice system and to deprive people of justice in general. And 896 speaks of the following: one of the key elements of a court hearing is the exchange of questions. This is exactly the process that reveals the truth about the matter. Thus, this article gives the chairman the right to restrict in general the rights of people, the parties to the process, to ask questions and to find out the truth on the basis of questions. This once again suggests that no one is interested in the trial and that no one is interested in justice. We suggest that this article be repealed. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u159	896. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please. [[12:31:47]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 898. Vlasenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u160	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Maybe we should vote on the law as a whole, right? For the presence of all the deputies in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u161	I suggest we set an hour for the vote as a whole. Gather around, gather around, and be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u162	I see. Andry Volodymyrovich, actually, well, I've already talked about this, this bill is definitely not aimed at creating an honest, fair trial for the common people. This law is directed to the usurpation of the authority of Dustenkom, the judicial authority of Dustenkom. Once again, the two biggest factions need to be forgotten about Januković's judicial reform. Because these are flowers compared to what's happening right now. This reform would need to improve judicial procedures. In particular, 898 amendments are aimed at establishing an institution or stage for assessing the evidence at least part of its ownership and admissibility. Because it's happening now. Now the parties are giving evidence, and they don't know if some of them are appropriate, or acceptable, and so on. I mean, we need the court to do this in part before we go into the counseling room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u163	898 supporters, please vote. The committee turned it down. Vote. [[12:33:18]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 900. Vlasenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u164	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. I want to point out that the 900, it refers to the principle thing. What are they offering us? We're being asked to set up an institution to interrogate trial participants as witnesses. So this would mean that, let's say, a lawyer who represents the interests of a legal person can be questioned in the economic process as a witness with all the consequences, including drawing him to criminal responsibility, if then some uneducated prosecutor thinks that there was a false demonstration. It's an absolutely absurd thing to mix two statuses. What status will this person then be in the courtroom? We have a number of procedures, especially when witnesses are removed from the courtroom. And he's been here the whole time, and then he's being questioned as a witness. And then he can be brought to criminal responsibility. This is ridiculous. In fact, it is the destruction of one of the basic principles, including the economic process. I'm asking you to support 900 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u165	900. Anyone who supports it, please vote. It's a committee against it. [[12:34:46]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 903. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u166	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Once again, it's a question of the possibility of assessing evidence. Here, the head of the committee, who spoke out of the rostrum without a microphone, pointed out that it seemed to him that the court could only assess the evidence in an advisory room. Once again, it's not about assessing the evidence, it's just about assessing whether or not the evidence that the court can do during the trial is admissible. We need to move away from the Soviet system when the parties are suing the court with evidence, not knowing if the evidence is right, whether it's evidence. whether they will be accepted by the court as appropriate and admissible. We need to change the process. This is why judicial reform can be implemented. So instead of reforming the process, we can preserve our old approaches, our Soviet approaches. There are a number of legal systems where the court gives an assessment of the evidence during the trial. There's a low level of law systems. But once again, we're not proposing in this amendment, I'm not suggesting that we evaluate the evidence outside the counseling room. It is only about belonging and permissibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u167	903 is put to the vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:36:13]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 906. Don't insist. 908. Captain, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u168	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Our rights apply to such a nightmare of any lawyer, and to real, more specifically, ordinary citizens who ever go to court and try to get either a court decision or other documentation. In this case, we propose to add to those who directly participated in the trial, the rights of others who have been dealt with, i.e. their rights are affected by the court's decision, to add them to those who may receive technical copies of the decisions. I can say that very often in our practice, especially those disputes concerning property rights, decisions are made regarding the owner who is not at all in the trial, and then he's just trying for months to get these copies of the decisions to sue, for example, the appeal or the appeal. So please support this amendment, it extends the rights of those who may be involved in the trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u169	908. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:37:52]] For-33 The decision is not taken. 910. Don't insist. 910. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u170	Julia Timoshenko. You know that today, in principle, the parable in the tongues has been corrupted by the unjust judicial system of Ukraine, which is in the hands of one man, President Prashenko. And judicial reform would be one of the main strategies of the state's development if one felt in the country that it had gone to the judges, not to the executioners, not to the corrupters, and had not received another unjust decision. The question is now under consideration. There's a maximum of 50 to 60 deputies in the 423s. It means no one needs it, no one wants to think about it at all. And I'm just sorry what the attitude is to the system of judiciality in the Supreme Council. I can say that the 910 rights of people who take part in the trials are being extended, that they make some changes to the protocols or to certain moments of the trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u171	910. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:39:24]] For-31 31-yes. The decision is not made. 911. Timoshenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u172	Tymoshenko, the Fatherland Party. 911 readjustment speaks again of the strengthening of the rights of the parties to the trial, and especially of the simple people who come to trial. The point is that the protocol under this law of the court is at all null and void. And this protocol does not reflect the key stages of the trial. Therefore, in the 911 article, we insist that all of the concerns raised in the trial, all their consideration or refusals, be necessarily reflected in the protocol so that the protocol can then be used in further trials. And we suggest that we include in the protocol all the problems, as well as other information that the court or the secretary thinks is necessary for a better understanding of the course of the case. Please support this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u173	911. 911. Anyone who supports it, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u174	Pay attention! [[12:40:51]] For-36 36. The decision is not made. 912. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u175	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council is again trying to bring about a very harsh result of a minor mistake. When the court opened the case, the court ruled, and then it was found that the signatory of the application did not have the authority to do so, the application was immediately dismissed. Even if the defendant was given the necessary authority, his trustee knew and supported the application. At present, the court gives the applicant time to remedy the shortcomings found, including the possibility of giving the right confidence. And only if the flaw is not corrected does it leave the lawsuit open. So I propose that you remove the signature defect from the list of absolute grounds for leaving the lawsuit without consideration. Otherwise, in six months we will have secretaries who will lose a page with a signature or trust from the material of the matter. Yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u176	912. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:42:21]] For-36 36. The decision is not made. 914. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u177	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, it's actually a drinking rule. It seems to me that this law clearly defines the concept of the President, the courts only for the rich. Consider that the court leaves the application pending if the applicant has not paid the defendant’s fee. You're suing for a miscalculated fine, and the court tells you that a lawyer costs a thousand dollars an hour, please pay a lawyer. You didn't pay, you lost the case on your project. You just can't have that much money, and you just lose because you're poorer. I propose that you delete the rule from the code. The logic of your changes, as if reform, is not understood in terms of bringing people closer to justice. You're moving them away, you're doing it to make the monopolies rule in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u178	914. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:43:49]] For-32 The decision is not made. 918. Don't insist. 919. Don't insist. 922. Don't insist. 924. Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which defined the model and procedure for handling cases before the Supreme Court, had recently been adopted by Parliament, either in college or in a large chamber. What is a large chamber, what is its main task, what was its basic idea of creation? It was the creation of a structure in the Supreme Court that had to restore the unity of judicial practice. The unity of judicial practice is legal certainty, it's the establishment of the rule of law. At the same time, in procedural codes we have concepts such as "challenge of the case by the House and the United Chamber". What will be the result? This will lead to different interpretations of the same law in different jurisdictions being kept completely different, you won't know how the Chamber of Commerce and the Civil Chamber understands the same law. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u180	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 924. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please. [[12:45:27]] For-37 The decision is not made. 929. Don't insist. 932. Don't insist. 932. Odarchenko insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u181	He insists. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. I'd like to contact the reporter. Mr. Ruslan, there's a conflict in the code. If, in accordance with part one, paragraph 7, of article 227, the application is pending, if the parties have entered into a third agreement or have referred the matter to an international commercial arbitration, the defendant should take care of it in his first objection. And part one, part one, paragraph 5, of article 232 provides that when such an agreement is made after the opening of the case, the conduct is closed, thus crossing the two standards. I propose that article 232, part one, paragraph 5, be deleted. Moreover, the closure deprives the court of the right to appeal again. What if the arbitral consideration did not end with a decision? Please place my application for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u182	932. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:47:02]] For-33 The decision is not made. 933. Don't insist. 934. Don't insist. What's that? 936 for confirmation. Put it to the vote right away, huh? Please, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u183	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I'll explain. This amendment is taken into account, and I propose that it be submitted for confirmation, because, in the committee's proposal for a second reading of the wording of this provision, the court is in fact given the right in the case of a decision in a complex case not to declare a decision in general in a court in which the case is concluded, even the introductory and resolution part, as is the case under the current legislation. In practice, I'm afraid it's going to be an abuse, I'm afraid it's going to be a waste, including for potential corruption. And it seems to me that after considering the matter in fact, the court has to declare it, so I'm going to put it on the stand. Please let the committee head comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u184	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u185	I think it's the other way around. If you read the correct version, the point is that it can be postponed for a period of not more than five days from the date of the introductory and resolution announcement, rather than a resolution and introductory one five days later. That is, if announced, no later than the fifth day, there should be a full text of the decision, not as it is now, when for weeks people cannot make the right decision. So I think it's in the best interest of the plaintiffs, not against them, that this is the right thing to do. But it's your right. If you think this term has to be infinite, it's your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u186	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 936. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote. [[12:49:03]] For-48 48-yes. The decision is not made. 934. Debtenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Andry Volodymyrovich, you have a personal request to look at our side, too, because the few rights that we insisted on were simply missed. As far as the 934 is concerned, this is a continuation of what the representative of the "Paternity" faction said about the introductory and resolution periods. If, according to the chairman of the committee, he says that the bill still foresees the possibility of fixing the introductory and resolution part when a summary text is announced, which is justified, this bill is technical and it provides, in particular, that the court can actually make a short decision, a certain deadline for making a full decision. But when a summary decision is made on that day, the court is obliged to make an introductory appointment. declare the introductory and resolution part. That doesn't make any difference to your logic, so it can be completely written into the logic of this bill, so please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u188	934. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:50:28]] For-29 29-yes. The decision is not made. 938. Don't insist. 939. He insists, Odarchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u189	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues in this room made it clear that the main function of the Supreme Court is to generalize judicial practice and generally to "implement" this generalized one. conduct, thank you, court practice. But here you're doing everything you can to clean up and ruin this process. If the Supreme Court ensures the uniformity of judicial practice, poverty - stricken courts should apply its legal conclusions, not just to take them into account. Counting is a very vague concept. It means that the courts should only pay attention to them, but they can ignore them freely. If we are to build a stable judicial system, the Supreme Court’s decisions should be applied precisely to the same cases. In fact, you deliberately destroy such a function of the Supreme Court, viewing it as that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u190	940. Anyone who supports it, please vote. I'm sorry, it's 939. 939 votes. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:52:07]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 938. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I am now addressing the audience here in this room, and I am also addressing lawyers who are watching the broadcast of our plenary session. In adopting the changes to the Constitution, we have replaced the principle of legality with a much broader, deeper content that corresponds to European traditions: we have replaced the rule of law principle. Moreover, thanks to my amendment, the principles of the judiciary have eliminated the principle of legality in favour of the rule of law. At the same time, in article 237, we leave the notion of "legality and soundness of judgment," but we do not find in this article the notion of "the rule of law." Moreover, even in the text proposed by the initiators of the law, it is proposed that the violated right be restored not only in a manner defined by law. That's why we need to add after the words "court decision should be legal" -- "this should be based on the principles of the rule of law." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u192	938. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:53:36]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 940, no. 940 insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, another very important amendment. If we are talking about a court as an institution that should be aimed at restoring violated rights, we should give the judges the opportunity to restore these violated rights. And if one of the representatives of the judiciary, even from the Supreme Court, takes the wrong position, that doesn't mean that the entire Ukrainian judiciary should sing in unison with such a wrong position. This is a joke: The task of the Supreme Court judge is to correct the mistakes of others and to perpetuate his own. We should not allow that. That's why I propose in article 237 of Part Four after the words "the Supreme Court" to add the words "the court, taking into account the specific circumstances of the case, has the right to deviate from the legal position laid down in the Supreme Court's conclusions, while at the same time substantiating the rejection of such a legal position." This rule will ensure that decisions can be made to restore those who have been violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u194	940. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:55:07]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 941. Odarchenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u195	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues, practicing lawyers know that it is impossible to ask the court to deny a wrong and to declare the right to be wronged. At the same time, the issue often arises as to whether or not the right is laid down and whether it is worthless. In doing so, the court is obliged to apply the consequences of the wrongfulness of the right, even if no one has claimed it. It is therefore suggested that the court in its resolution should point out the futility or incomprehensibility of the right. And in situations where this was established when the case was taken down, it was simply a question of the effectiveness of the trial. Please vote in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u196	941. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:56:28]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 943. Don't insist. 945. He insists. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u197	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. According to article 239, it is clear that the President of Ukraine is also the owner of the bank, because this article is directly lobbying the interests of banks in relation to people, and people’s interests are simply negligent. I can just give you an example of this, read the standard of 239 articles. If the estate agreement is invalid, that is, if someone made a mortgage agreement on your behalf and you prove through the courts that it is not your signature, the court will place an arrest on your property and this arrest can only be removed in a case that is not governed by law. I mean, the false adage, the false transfer of your property, and when it's established that it's falsely transferred, you're practically blocked and confiscated by the de facto. Well, it's a mess that's never been in law school before. I ask you to exclude this part and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u198	945. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:58:02]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 947. Don't insist. He insists. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, well, I'm going back to. First of all, to practice lawyers, to judges who watch our broadcast, who understand what the court's decision process looks like. We are told that article 241 states that the judge does not disclose the following information when making a judgment. Paragraph 1.4 defines which particular information is not disclosed at this stage. At the same time, it is absolutely impossible to pronounce a court decision without even mentioning it, since such a court decision will not even coexist in a syntax. That is why I propose that, in part two, add a second paragraph to this: the judge, when declaring the decision, states that the information given in paragraph 1.4 of Part Two of this article is replaced by letters or figures. Because turn on the fantasy and think about what it will look like to announce a court decision if these moments simply do not come out out loud at all. That sentence will be stripped of any syntax.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u200	947. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:59:33]] For-53 The decision is not made. 949. Don't insist. 950. Don't insist. 951. The author does not insist. 953. Don't insist. 954. Don't insist. 956. Don't insist. 958. Don't insist. 960. 960 - Debtkov. Tell me what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u201	958 correct. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. My point is that one of the money, not very good money, unfortunately, before this procedural legislation is called the simplified late conduct procedure. What does it predict? It provides mainly for a study of written evidence, documents, but it does not provide an explanation of the sides of the process, and even the explanations of the third parties who speak on the side of the defendant or the plaintiff are not evidence in the case. And this rule is that any case of simplified conduct can be tried by a court. I propose to exclude this expanded interpretation, which is provided in part two of article 248 of the Ukrainian Code of Master and Procedural Procedure, by making the list of cases in the order of simplified, simplified conduct exhaustive. Please, colleagues, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u202	958. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:01:17]] For-60 The decision is not made. 962. Don't insist. 963. Don't insist. 964. Don't insist. 968. Don't insist. 971. Don't insist. 972. Don't insist. 977th. Don't insist. 979. Don't insist. 981. Don't insist. 984th. Don't insist. 988. Don't insist. 990. Don't insist. Please turn on Dudenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! Honorable both lawyers and not lawyers! A very important point, one of the important points that must be corrected in this bill, is the deadline for filing an appeal. 979th, I'm sorry. This is the moment of filing an appeal. According to the bill, an appeal is filed after a full court decision has been made. But unfortunately, the parties. Process participants cannot know this time frame for making a full decision. Always, in any change, the moment of the complaint from the moment of the decision, the full court decision, the parties. This is a conceptual moment that can lead to very unpredictable consequences in the form of violations of the procedural rights and obligations of the parties. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the 979 appeal with what it says is that the complaint begins not with the making of a full decision, but with the delivery of the full decision to the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u204	Thank you. I'm asking the right-holders to be careful. I'll read every paper. And I'm not coming back because we're going in. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? I can pick up the stenographer and. I'll give you my word. But I can pick up the transcript, I've announced every revision. 979. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:03:36]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 972, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u205	Julia Timoshenko. Mr. Chairman, if you can, a little louder to announce the amendments, you can't hear a thing at all. Amendment 972. Imagine that the Attorney General, for example, is confiscating the property of a small entrepreneur for 160,000 dollars. But this entrepreneur hires a lawyer to stay out of this illegal act and try to protect his property. But this law forbids such protection at all. Because, starting with 160,000 bracelets, a judge can consider a case without a court hearing, not listening to anyone, not having a discussion, and not knowing how to determine what is right and where justice is. That is why we feel that this is very unfair. For our small entrepreneurs, the amount of $160,000 is very large. And they will be deprived of this property or money at all without their participation. So I suggest we remove from the code a rule that gives the courts the right not to invoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u206	972. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned it down. [[13:05:07]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 991. Don't insist. 992. Don't insist. He insists. Please, 992.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u207	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. The Code introduces appeals directly to the courts of appeal. Now imagine that the appellant is filing a complaint with the Court of Appeal on the last possible day of the deadline. On the following day, the court of the first instance, not knowing that the decision was accused, issued a decision noting its legal entry into force. This decision is immediately passed on to the perpetrator, who, for example, arrests the appellant’s accounts. It is therefore necessary to provide that the Court of Appeal, on the day of receipt of the complaint, should provide an automated system of information on the complaint received and, accordingly, block the possibility for the Court of First Instance to accidentally issue a court decision and an executive letter. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u208	922. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:06:24]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 993. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u209	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you're creating conditions for people to be completely wrong. We talked about what rights you give to banks when they take property. Prior to this, Prashenko and his political party initiated the adoption of a bill on private contractors. There are already so-called collectors, but they lack this decision to adopt appropriate bills that will allow you to enter your apartments, rob you, and then you will not be able to complain at all. Amendment 993, it's about the following. Again, there is the question of the consequences of the complainant’s mistakenly forgetting to sign an appeal. We suggest that the court leave such a complaint motionless and give time to remedy the flaw. Otherwise, you'll see that the stalls are not clean.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u210	Please vote. [[13:07:57]] For-31 The decision is not taken. The next one is 997. 997. The next one is 1,000. Please be careful. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u211	Yuri Odarchenko, "Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the plea for a lawsuit will come into effect immediately. And the accusation does not stop it from happening. And the Court of Appeal has to hold a full court hearing, which may take several months under the new code, even if the judges want to take a quick look at the case. Therefore, it is suggested that the right of the Court of Appeal should be allowed to stop the execution of the court’s decision in the event that it is manifestly wrongful or its consequences would be irreparable to the appellant. Please place our vote and ask the deputies to confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u212	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:09:18]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 1,000. Please, National Deputy Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, distinguished lawyers watching our broadcast. A very important amendment to the appeal procedure. What are we talking about? Part three provides for closure, the possibility of closing an appeal against an appeal filed by a court on the grounds of its rights and obligations, when it is established that the matter of the rights and obligations of such a person has not been settled by the court. What are we talking about? In this case, it is not clear at what stage the Court of Appeal has the right to close such appeals. I suggest that this is only about the stage of preparation of the appeal, otherwise the judge's subjective opinion will be able to close appeal proceedings at any institution until the court's final decision is reached. Therefore, with respect to the principle of legal certainty, please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u214	Please vote. [[1:10:42]] For-51 The decision is not made. 1007 repairs. Don't insist. 1008. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u215	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, according to the project, there's a gap in the right. If the court of the first instance refuses to seek any evidence, the court of appeal, even if it has established that it was illegal, will no longer be able to use it. It is suggested that article 270 should be supplemented by a rule that the court of appeal may, by declaring an improper refusal to demand evidence, require it on its own. I don't understand why we didn't count. It is perfectly logical and, in our view, will simplify the process. Please put our vote to the vote and confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u216	One minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u217	It's not taken into account because it's not about exorcising evidence, it's about submitting it to the party. There's all kinds of things here. The court can do that, the party can't do that anymore if it wasn't the subject of the first instance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u218	Please vote. [[13:12:19]] For-46 For 46. The decision is not made. Amendment 1011. Don't insist. 1012. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, by adopting the entire package of legislation relating to judicial reform, including the requirements for judicial decision, we have always spoken and insisted that a court decision should be clear and clear and should not allow for any double treatment, and should not require the conclusion of international academics in order to understand the content of what was written there. At the same time, when writing procedural codes, we sometimes set some standards in such a way that neither the first nor the second nor the third time understands what is going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u220	That's why I understand everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u221	This is a very important aspect: cases in which appeals can be handled without a report from the participants. In this case, I suggest there are two of these cases. The first one. The cost of a lawsuit is less than 100 per cent of the living minimum for working persons. The other one. If. Another additional hallmark is that if the nature of the dispute and the subject matter of proof do not require a court hearing. Then the definition of the corresponding article will be clear, clear, and unwarranted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u222	(Please vote. [[13:13:52]] For-55 For-55. The decision is not made. 1017 amendment number. National Deputy Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u223	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in 2010, the right of appeal judges to refer the case to the court of first instance was revoked. As a result of this, there has been a slight increase in the speed of litigation, but there have been isolated cases in which such a return is the only real way to protect the rights of an appellant. This is true in cases where the matter has not been considered at all. Or when the judge was not authorized to handle the case. In such a case, the appeal will not restore the right of an appellant, since the appellant simply cannot exercise his rights, which can only be exercised through the court of the first instance. Therefore, we suggest that we allow the matter to be referred for further consideration in very limited cases. Please put our vote to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u224	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:15:17]] For-51 Z-51. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1025. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, once again we are talking about a very important aspect. I want to focus. Now we're looking at the Master's Procedural Code. We're saying that we need to create conditions for investment attractiveness, and we're leaving the argument that we have today when things can walk vertically and cancel out on a new perspective, and people can't get a final court decision for years. What is primary? The primary is the restoration of the violated right; it is the observance of the rules of material law that must be determined whether the court’s decision remains in force or whether it is enforceable. On that basis, I propose that we allow the decision made in violation of territorial jurisdiction to be annulled only on two grounds. The first is the misapplication of the rules of material law that have resulted from the violation of the rules of territorial jurisdiction. And the second good sign is the inability to properly protect the damaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u226	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:16:48]] For-57 1026th. 1027. Please, 26th. National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, this is a continuation of the logic and of the ones that I spoke in my previous speech. It is suggested that in cases where the party is not brought to trial at all or decided on the case, if the case has been unlawfully dealt with in writing or in simplified conduct, or when the case has been examined by a court of law, it has previously been referred to the Court of First Instance for a new hearing. In this case, there was actually no case, so we're depriving the appellant of the right to a trial in the first instance. If we limit the focus of the new consideration to the above - mentioned cases, things will not be prolonged, but the rights of the parties will also be adequately protected. Please vote and support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u228	Please vote. [[13:18:14]] For-51 The decision is not made. Please, amendment number 1028 for confirmation. National Deputy Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u229	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, I want to pay attention to this amendment, because, as the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council writes, which is very well dealt with in the process and in the procedural codes, very many terminology that are applied in these codes and in these texts, they contradict each other, they're evaluative and the judge will actually interpret what it is. Well, for example, using a valid legal terminology in this article, the legal department says that the names, the names of the parties, they're used in different and different ways, are called in different changes to different codes. Similarly, I have to pay attention, for example, to article 247, where there are such evaluative notions that are simply evaluative arbitrary. For example, if a judge sees faults in the activities of legal persons, he determines the appropriate approval. What are the shortcomings in the activities of legal persons as the judge interprets it? Next. For example, a judge may find the cassation complaint unfounded if the correct application of the law is evident. What is the apparent application of the right standard for whom it is evident? These things, they just create a collapse of the legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u230	Thank you. Please confirm. No, you don't. Okay. Then we don't put it to a vote. The next amendment is number 1030. National MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, if we put our codex to test an expert in the Ukrainian language, I'm afraid that would be done. Article 288 is called "The Law of Casational Complaints". In this case, the word "right" is used in active form, not passive. So in this case, we need to put out the title of the article "The Right to a Continuation Complaint." Because in this case a person gets the right to something, not that right, he owns something, something. So please support the 288, put the title of the article in the following way: "Right to a cassational accusation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u232	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:20:43]] For-65 For 65. The decision is not made. Please, the next amendment is 1031. 1032. 1031. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, this is actually the same problem. Well, there's not the same problem, there's the problem with the rest of the Russians in our terminology. The part of the first sentence reads as follows: "participants or also persons who did not take part in the case if the court decided on the issue of their rights and duties." It should not be "them," but "their rights and duties," so it's right in line with the rules of Ukrainian spelling. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u234	Please vote. [[13:21:39]] For-69 For -69. The decision is not made. I'm just doing it. Since I am also the author of these amendments, which refer to the language in which those bills were put forward, I must comment. You see, colleagues, we adopt laws that apply to the national language, but shouldn't we take care of the quality of that language in our bills for the first time? If we produce the Russians ourselves in the documents we approve, then all of these Russians will use them. And if we're already adopting a new codex that we're planning to work for years, then I'm sorry, isn't this the right time to finally change terminology and bring it into line with the spelling of Ukrainian, and not to use the Russians for 60 years that have taken root in our legislation. Thank you. Next amendment number 1032. National MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u235	We go back to the notion of the rule of law. It's a good thing we brought him into the Constitution, it's a good thing we put him in the hands of the judiciary. But unfortunately, when we read the entire contents of these codes, we see a lack of a profound and profound understanding of this content. What is it? The first part states, in article 288, of the Master's Procedural Code: "Participants and persons who have not taken part in the case if the court has decided on the issue of their rights and duties." Why do we limit ourselves to rights? In this case, it is clear that individuals should be entitled to cassation charges if not only their rights but also their freedoms and interests are violated. All these persons should be entitled to cassation charges. The absence of such a rule limits the individual’s right to appeal to the court for the protection not only of his rights but also of violated freedoms and interests. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u236	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:23:56]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 1033, national deputy Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u237	In 1033 on the right, there are actually two problems. It raises the problem of Ukrainian spelling, which refers to the way in which the language is given, as well as the grounds for the accusation. Part one of article 288 states that they have the right to lodge a cassation complaint. At the same time, you have to write a "cassational complaint against" because a cassation complaint is brought against a court order, on a court order. This is the first moment. And the other one. It is necessary to provide that a cassation complaint is filed against a decision or approval and, please note, "in cases defined by the Code, to be charged in a cassational order in whole or in part" because the right of prosecution of a court decision should not only be complete but also in part of the relevant court decision or the relevant court order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u238	Please vote. [[13:25:21]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1038. Please, National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u239	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. This article, it calls so-called "male-significant things." So the little things are the ones where the price is going to be less than 160,000 dollars. Imagine, in a country that has been led to extreme poverty, where every bracelet, including small entrepreneurs, has little to do with it. So I just don't want you to eliminate a lot of people at all from the judicial process and forbid them from the cassation charges. We strongly suggest that they exclude this norm and not limit the right of the parties to the subjective consideration of their cases. This deprives them of their rights. You can't let that happen! Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u240	Please vote. [[13:26:50]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1042. 1039. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u241	Thank you, Oksana Ivanovna. Again, actually, the question of cassation is a fundamental question, the question of the right to cassation is a fundamental question. By narrowing down the rights of people during his so-called "court reform", Dustenko changed the article of the Constitution. Earlier this article had been said that every Ukrainian citizen had the right to an appeal and a cassational complaint. Exclusions are established by law. Now it's been written in the Constitution in a different way that appeals always and appeals only in cases established by law. In other words, the law establishes cases of cassation, narrowing down and restricting the rights of the left. I think it's wrong. I believe that in today's situation where we have double, triple, quadruple court practice in all matters, including minor matters. I understand that for Rinat Ahmedov, 160,000 is a small thing. That's why we don't need to defend the rights of Rinat Ahmtov, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u242	Please vote. [[13:28:26]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 1042. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, Julia Timoshenko has proposed a very nice amendment: removing small-scale issues from the list of those that cannot be dealt with in the cassation order. Regrettably, you did not support this amendment, and minor matters have been removed from the cassation. Therefore, we ask you to prescribe an exception, if there are grounds for an unconditional annulment of the court’s decision, a cassation may be allowed in all cases. Undoubtedly, this is a very unfair decision, for example, when the case was considered by an assistant judge instead of a judge or a court that had no jurisdiction in the case at all, or a judge was a relative of the party. Such decisions cannot remain in force if they are. Even if you didn't qualify them as small. Please put our voting rights to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u244	Please vote. [[13:29:52]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 1043. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u245	Amendments 1043 and 1044 refer to the same part, namely, part four of the corresponding article of the master procedural code 278 that we are considering, which relates to the problem that I have already raised. This is about the formulation of rights and obligations. On another occasion, we forget to defend the freedom and interests of our citizens in our courts. Once again, the ingredient, and all the lawyers know it, sounds like: rights, freedoms and interests. So please insert after the words "rights" - "freedoms and interests" and vote for amendment 1043 and amendment 1044. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u246	Please, 1043 votes. [[13:31:01]] For-60 The decision is not taken. And 1043 votes, please. 44, I'm sorry. Please, vote 44th. [[13:31:21]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 1045. National MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, in this case again, we are talking about the completeness of the text and the fullness of the mechanisms that we will give to the courts to protect the rights that have been violated. If we speak of rights and obligations, but in this case it may be about rights and/or obligations, because the court does not decide on rights and obligations at the same time. Because a decision or an appropriate court order may refer to either the rights or obligations of the party concerned or of the party involved in the trial. So after the word "ta," you have to add the word "or."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u248	Please vote. [[13:32:20]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Please, next amendment, 1046. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u249	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Respectful colleagues, considering that the examination will now be an extremely complex and responsible stage of the trial, are proposing to increase the time limit for filing a complaint to one month. This is an objective time to prepare a cassation complaint, taking into account how carefully a lawyer should conduct a study of the judicial practice of similar decisions in similar cases and so forth. In doing so, consider that the court’s decision takes effect from the conclusion of the appeal, and the case does not stop its execution. That is, in order to increase the time frame for the charges against the party who lost the court, they are absolutely without prejudice. I don't understand why this was unaccounted for and you didn't create a condition for a cassation complaint to be prepared qualitatively and properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u250	Please vote. [[13:33:54]] For-47 The decision is not made. 1053rd Amendment. National MP Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u252	Now. Wait. 1047. Please, the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, by analogy with the filing order, the calculation of the terms of the appeal, my proposal refers to the procedure for calculating the terms of the cassation complaint. The right to receive the full text of the decision at the right time, after which the party to the process, the party to the process, the party to the process, has the right to file a complaint of cassation, is one of the most conceptual rights of the process. In fact, all the standards laid down in the bill will have a very negative effect because a person will not be able to pass the blanks on a cassation charge. She cannot know the time when the full text of the decision will be ready except for the court. And in fact, it may be that in fact it will be given a decision already in the due course of the cassation charge. This is a fundamental violation of their procedural rights. Please support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u254	Please vote. [[13:35:27]] For-48 The decision is not made. 1053th. Sidorovich, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, who are watching the broadcast of this plenary session, please ask your colleagues to turn on the same broadcast, to become aware of the process that is currently going on. Now we're approaching or not the most important element of all the procedural codes. This is about the model of the court of cassation and the procedure for dealing with cases before the court of cassation. Because if we do not bring back to the court of cassation unity, unity of approach, we will never be able to bring that sense of right back to justice. My amendment relates to the requirements for a cassation complaint. What should be noted in the cassation complaint. Because the economic process provides for some requirements for a cassation complaint, the civil process provides for other requirements for a cassation complaint. In the Code of Administrative Judiciality and more! We have four different court-martials? Do we have four Supreme Courts or do we have one single cassation trial?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u256	Please vote. [[13:36:57]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment-- number 1055. National MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u257	It's kind of technical, on the one hand. But if we're talking about procedural codes, every comet, every letter, every word, that's what determines the fate of someone, the fate of the person who sought to protect their interests in court. The correctness of legal terminology, the correctness of definitions will be directly correlated with whether judicial decisions will be fair and whether they will have a chance to be executed. So in this case, I think it's necessary to add in part three of article 291 after the word "person who submits" to add the word "casational." Because the meaning of the article is not clear what the complaint is. Whether it is a complaint of cassation, whether there is a complaint of any observations, of any action of the judge in the trial. In this case, it's about the clarity and definition of definitions. And some tautology in this case in the articles is absolutely permissible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u258	Please vote. [[13:38:21]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next one is 1056. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u259	Question 1056 of the amendment actually refers to the seemingly exclusive rules of Ukrainian spelling, which we've been talking about over and over and over again. But we're still going to talk about this, because our cultural advancement is really important. Ukrainian lawyers have already awaited Ukrainian legal terminology that will conform to the rules of the Ukrainian language that our children share in school. So in this case, in the third part of article 291, the words "add trust or other document" should be replaced by the words "should be added trust or other document." This will be the case with the rules of Ukrainian spelling. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u260	Please vote. [[13:39:26]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Please, amendment number 1057. National MP Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u261	Amendment 1057 corrects what appears to be a technical but very important slap that was defined in the preceding article, which states that a complaint of cassation is noted, and the evidence of the judicial congregation has been recorded among the lists. They're not marked, they're added. That's why I propose in article 291 of Part Four to put it in the following line: The cassation complaint is accompanied by, first, evidence confirming the date of receipt of a copy of the defendant's decision by the appellate court if there is one." That and the question raised by our colleagues. And the second question. These are evidence of payment to the court. Because the evidence of payment by the judicial congregation may appear in a variety of ways. It could be a payment order, it could be a receipt, it could be another document that confirms the payment of the court. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u262	Please vote. [[13:40:43]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1060. Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u263	Amendment 1060 refers to sending a copy of the cassation complaint to the parties in the case. In this case, we are talking again about the correctness of the definition of the name of the article. That's why I propose to put the title of this article as follows: "Sending copies of the cassation complaint and the materials added to it to the participants of the case." Because today, when the formulation is proposed, the parties are invited to send only a copy of the cassation complaint and the entire package of evidence. And practice knows that sometimes evidence of a cassation complaint can be extremely important in order for a party to be able to prepare effectively for the protection of its interests in a court of cassation, such an obligation for the person submitting the cassation is not provided. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u264	Please vote. [[13:41:59]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1061. Amendment 1062. Please, there will be comments from the people. Amendment 1063. National MP Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u265	Amendment 1063 again refers to the clarity of the wording. In article 293, part four uses the word 'court'. But in this case, it's not clear who on behalf of the court will act, whether it's the judge's office, or whether it's the judge, who's going to go into the trio, who's going to deal with the question, it's completely incomprehensible. Moreover, if we take, for example, the procedure for dealing with cases in the same court of appeal only in civil jurisdiction, it is clear that the matter is decided not by a court but by a judge-cum-reporter. From the point of view of legal definition, the use of such a term as "reporter judge" is much more accurate, which more fully reveals the essence of the question that the representative of the judiciary will be making in the process of preparing the case for trial before the court of the court of a court of appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u266	Please vote. [[13:43:35]] For-54 For 54. The decision is not made. Amendment number 1066. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u267	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorary colleagues, the code provides that in cases where there are no circumstances in the cassation complaint that may be a basis for its satisfaction, the court will return the complaint without consideration. But it determines whether there are such circumstances, whether there is a referee judge on the basis of one's own conviction, that is, how he wants it, and decides. And it can't be accused at all. So we're going to have a massive recovery of the cassation complaints without proper justification. This means that corruption will already be in the process of accepting a cassation complaint because a judge can, for a certain amount of money or fight back or accept it and no one can do anything about it. Therefore, I suggest that the return of a cassation complaint be made solely in connection with the violation of the formal requirements for a complaint, and all matters concerning the merits of the complaint are decided only by a college of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u268	Please vote. [[13:45:11]] For-50 For -50. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1069. National MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u269	Dear colleagues! Dear lawyers! Well, look, part five of the corresponding 293 article, I read: "The question of leaving a cassational complaint motionless -- okay -- decides within ten days of the coming of the cassation complaint." There's no warning, but we're still missing the respondent judge, the reporter, and I'm sorry, and the question of the return of the appeal is no longer decided by the respondent judge, but by the court of cassation sanctions. That's why I'm here. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's why I propose that the words "court" be replaced by the words "reporter judge."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u270	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:46:17]] For-53 Z-53. The decision is not made. Amendment No. 1070. Please, national MP Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, well, in the preceding articles, we first lost the apps for the cassation complaint, and in this part we have already lost the cassation complaint. I read: "A copy of the ruling on the return of a cassation complaint shall be sent to the participants in the case in accordance with article 243 of this Code. The complainant is sent a copy of the ruling on the return of the cassation complaint along with the materials added to the complaint, and the cassation complaint remains in the court of cassation. Please tell me why you should leave her in the court of cassation. So after the words "together with" in part seven, I suggest you add the words "cassational complaint and."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u272	Please vote. [[13:47:24]] For-48 For-48. The decision is not made. Amendment number 1071.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u273	Well again, in this case, we're looking at the basic sense of the load of the proposed part that we're going to vote on. In part seven of article 93: The complainant receives a copy of the ruling on the return of the cassation complaint along with the materials added to the complaint, and the cassation complaint remains in the court of the cassation. I propose the word "complaints" at the end of this part to replace the word "she," then the very part of the corresponding article will read simpler and clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u274	Please vote. [[13:48:23]] For-55 The decision is not made. Next, 1072. National MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u275	I've already partly reasoned on the position on Amendment 1072. If the court of the cassation is returning a cassation complaint along with the added materials that the purpose of the cassation complaint is to leave to the court of cassation, there are no cases in the court of cassation, there are no add-ons to the case, there are no materials themselves, there is still a cassation complaint. In what order will it be preserved? What a load for. there will be a cassation complaint itself, how will it be kept, and how will it be archived? The mass has been asked what is happening in connection with what it cannot, and there can be no logical answer. That's why the words "and the cassation complaint remains in the court of the cassation facility" are proposed to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u276	Please vote. [[13:49:33]] For-52 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1073. Don't insist. 1074th. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u277	Amendment 1074 refers to 294 articles, namely, refusal to open cassation. Once again, we're talking about the unification of the cassation processes at the stage of the economic process, the civil process, and the code of administrative justice. In no way can I understand the logic of the subject of the legislative initiative, and we discussed this much in the context of the issues of judicial reform. Why are the rules governing the preparation of the cassation, the consideration of the cassation in these three jurisdictions fundamentally different? This makes no sense at all, but the very logic of the civil process at the point of the cassation is much better spelled out. That's why we're proposing to add a part of the first content: "after receiving a cassation complaint formulated in accordance with the requirements of Article 290 of this Code, the referee judge (the College of Judges) decides on the question of opening up the cassational conduct (the refusal to open the cassation)." In view of what part one is considered to be a part of the second, then we will have the process of cassation in these three jurisdictions absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u278	Please vote. [[13:51:08]] For-50 The decision is not made. The next one is 1075. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u279	Amendment 1075. I can't understand where we keep losing that reporter judge. We're constantly losing him, we're getting court-martialed, we're getting court-martialed, we're getting other terms. At the same time, there is no such definition. Once again, we need to introduce a single legal terminology. On some issues, a process of harmonization has actually taken place in procedural codes. For example, we've replaced the notion of "subordination" and "substantiality" which in different processes were understood differently by the only concept of "jurisdiction." Why didn't we move towards this unification and end it with a single, logical, understandable, coaxing process? That's why in this case we're proposing in the first part of the word "the court of cassation" to replace the words "the referee judge." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u280	Please vote. [[13:52:31]] For-51 The decision is not made. The next one is 1077. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues also, in this case, we continue to talk about the reasons for refusing to open up cassation. We all well understand that, of course, not every cassational complaint should receive its consideration because it may be unfounded, unfounded, and may fail to meet the requirements set out in the relevant procedural code. But we should clearly regulate cases where the court receives the right to refuse to open the case. It is for the purpose of ensuring this completeness that we propose to add this part, more faithfully, to this article in paragraph 5: "the judgment in the order envisaged in part four-fifth of this article has come to the conclusion that the cassation complaint is unfounded." In that case, if we predict that definition, we're going to be completely closed in terms of the formulation of a procedure in which a person can be denied the opening of a cassational conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u282	Please vote. [[13:53:56]] For-50 For -50. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1078. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u283	In this case, dear colleagues, we're still talking about the grounds for refusing to open cassation. Part two of this article suggests the following: in the case of the price of a lawsuit that does not exceed 500 per cent of the subsistence minimum for working persons, except for matters that are dealt with under the general procedure. And we're proposing to replace this part with the following words, "in matters dealt with by the rules of simplified lateral conduct," because it's obvious that not only the size of this lateral conduct should be a criterion in refusing to allow the cassation process. Because sometimes the sum itself may be less, more faithful, the sum of the trial itself, a case that is serious and essential to the formation of judicial practice and the understanding of the treatment of the relevant law by the court of cassation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u284	Please vote. [[13:55:21]] For-54 For 54. The decision is not made. Next up is Amendment 1081. National MP Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u285	We continue to consider an article that defines, let’s say, non-admission to a cassation plant. Of course, in keeping with the principle of legal certainty, the right to a cassation charge cannot be unlimited in time, for it will be a threat, including to the relevant element of the rule of law. In addition, all of us know that there are sometimes cases where a person has submitted. failed to file a cassation complaint at the same time for reasons independent of her. That's why we're proposing to add the corresponding article to part three of the following content: " irrespective of the validity of the reasons for the time limit for the cassation charge, the court of the cassation institution refuses to open the cassation procedure if a cassation complaint after one year of filing a full court decision, except in cases (two cases): the filing of a cassation complaint to a person who has not been notified of the case or its case. which was not involved in the case." I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u286	Please vote. [[13:56:50]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Here's the next one, 1082, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u287	82 and 83 take off, they don't make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u288	Okay. 84. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u289	In article 294, we propose to add a part of the fifth sentence: "the question of opening the case in part four of this article is decided by the referee judge." Again, we've got a court-martial somewhere else. More loyally, the referee is missing and the concept of "court" is re-emerging. That's why we insist that this article, this part of the article, mentions the "reporter judge" and reveals more fully the content of the acceptance of refusal to open cassational conduct. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u290	1085. 84. Anyone who supports it, please vote. 84, yes. [[13:58:15.]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 1085.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u291	Amendment 1085. Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry that there's really absolutely no attention to the things that we're looking at here. If anyone in this room thinks that the quality of these procedural codes that we're currently considering and eventually we're going to accept, it's not going to apply to them and their friends, close friends, families and so on, and so on, I want to upset you: you're very wrong, the things that we're currently looking at, they're going to determine the life of the whole country. The question of the case, the question of the procedure for the examination of the incarceration, is a definite one. Without the proper procedure for dealing with cases of cassation, we will never maintain the unity of judicial practice, we will never be able to obtain a fair trial. And all the other things that we're voting about here, we're discussing, are going to be completely meaningless. Suggested in article 294 in part five after the words "grow about." add the words "discovering conduct in the matter or." In such a case, this part will reveal more fully that text, that content, more faithfully, that has been laid down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u292	1085. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:59:49]] For-50 The decision is not taken. I'm reporting that I'm continuing this morning's meeting for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you why, colleagues. And I'll tell you why. And to do that, colleagues, we have until October 1st to adopt a pension reform that will enable us to raise pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. That is to say, we have been considering one reform for five days. If anyone wants and thinks it should be infinite, he's profoundly wrong because we have responsibility because all the committee heads, all the committee heads have a huge number of laws that need immediate adoption. And the artificial sometimes delaying this process, it postpones decisions that are essential to the state. And that's why I'm using my right to continue this session for 15 minutes. And I ask everyone to the same responsibility. [[Applause]] Because I say, colleagues, and pension reform, and medical reform are the next to consider, and now there's an artificial delay, so that we don't go to the problems that people need every day, every day people need a solution. It's, excuse me, sometimes politics, it goes through any healthy boundaries and any common sense. [[Noise Nodes]] 1086. Don't insist. [[Noise Nodes]] 1086.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, in response to the chairman's remarks, I would like to point out that, by the way, both the legal authorities and the scientific and scientific experts have also noted, the bill in question, there are two thousand 900 pages now pending consideration, filed in contravention of the Constitution, filed in contravention of all requirements, norm-drafting, there have never been such bills in this room. [[Applause]] It was you who forced the deputies to now look at two thousand pages, four thousand amendments in that format. And please, I ask you not to manipulate or humiliate MPs. Because you humiliated yourself when you allowed this bill to enter the hall at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u294	This bill has been submitted in accordance with all the rules of the Rules and is being considered in accordance with all the rules. [[Noise Nodes]] And, colleagues, we had to go to the committee and have a professional discussion. 1086. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[2:02:39]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 1087. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u295	Well, respectable colleagues, cassation, imagine a situation, a cassation complaint against some sort of, they say, unbiased court decision. It is necessary to stop it, because continuing to deal with such a case may lead to the inability to bring about the ultimate restoration of a violated right. The court of cassation will rule on the reinstatement of the violated right, it will not rule, it may be completely devoid of any meaning. Suggested use. The question is, you can use the definition in the article: "if it can't be stopped." Please tell me, how do you imagine a technical inspection at the point of the court, whether to stop the execution of this court decision or not? This may be found only in the course of the trial. So we're actually setting up a tool that can be manipulated to allow the raiders who are at large to continue to do what they're doing today. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u296	1087. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned it down. 1087. [[14:04:08]] For-46 The decision is not made. 1088. Don't insist. 1091. 1091, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u297	Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. 1091. We ask you to add directly to this article the position that if there is a reaction to a cassation complaint and it contains concern about the person’s involvement, as well as the case where it does not contain such a problem, in case there is no delay in the consideration of the matter if there is no concern about the person’s participation in the proceedings, so that the matter is dealt with directly with in the material available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u298	1091. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:05:11]] For-45 The decision is not made. 1092. Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u299	Dear colleagues! Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-Help faction. Well, once again, I want to remind you that we're looking at the agricultural process. The management process is a relatively new institution in Ukraine, compared to the civil process. The Civil Procedure Code -- it's known by all the lawyers -- in fact, the one that's being proposed to cancel now, wasn't so bad. But thanks to a truly profound, fundamental knowledge of the civil process, which, thanks to the glory of God, exists in Ukraine, has been able to prepare a fairly quality civil process, the Civil Process Code. At the same time, there was a complete balance in the Code of Conduct in the way in which the process of handling and preparing a cassation complaint takes place. In this case, there is article 297 of the Code of Cassation Closure, which is completely illogical in this part of the Code. That is why we suggest that article 297 be moved and considered to be an article 299 with a badge 1, in order to return.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u300	1092. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[14:06:41]] For-52 The decision is not made. 1093. Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u301	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Again, in this case, it is a matter of joining other persons in a cassation complaint. And in this case, in order not to delay the process, sometimes there are cases where there may be dozens of such persons, we ask you to add and clarify in the article that if there is no concern of a person that he wants to participate, then ensuring his participation is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u302	1093. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:07:33]] For-51 The decision is not made. 1095. Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u303	Yes. Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 1095. We suggest that we add to part four, which says that when the appeal is withdrawn, the court of cassation decides to approve the return of the complaint. Why is this important? In general, this article sets out all withdrawal procedures. But there is no way that the solution, the procedural solution, will actually be confirmed and fixed. I remind you that courts, like many others, such as the same public authorities, must act in accordance with the law. So for the courts, they have to be clearly regulated all of them, the order of their actions, all of their principles. Accordingly, it is logical that such a decision should be laid down in the law in order for a judge to have the opportunity to properly complete the examination of the case in such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u304	1095. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:08:50]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 1096. Don't insist. 1098. Don't insist. 1099. Don't insist. 1010. Don't insist. 1101. Don't insist. 1103. Don't insist. 1104. Don't insist. 1104. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u305	In this case, we are talking about article 301. Part three defines the following: "The court of the court of a cassation does not accept, does not consider requirements that were not the subject of a trial in the first instance. No change in the subject matter and the grounds for the lawsuit in a court of cassation is allowed." Generally speaking, the definition is not that it is wrong, but it does not fully reveal the substance and tasks of the court of a cassation. For example. Again, in the civil process I have mentioned, these norms are regulated differently. That's why we're proposing to unify them, to put it this way: "The court of cassation examines the legality of the court decisions only within the limits of the court of first instance. No change in the subject matter and the grounds for the lawsuit in a court of cassation is allowed."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u306	1104. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:10:26]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 1105. Don't insist. 11. 1105 Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u307	In this case, we're talking about an institution like the previous case. Yes, indeed, the economic process that we have in Ukraine stemmed from an arbitral process that was in the form of State arbitration back in the days of the Soviet Union, such an institution, did not know the procedure. At the same time, we both have a civil process at the point of the cassation, and in the administrative process at the point of the cassation, there is a concept like a preliminary case. Now I'd like to suggest you model another situation. The case goes to the Grand Chamber, where there are 5 judges of the criminal court, 5 civil judges, 5 administrative judges, and 5 household judges. In what process will they deal with matters if each process provides for completely different procedures? Why do we create this? That's why the institution that we have in both the civil and the administrative process, such as the previous case review, needs to be implemented by adding article 301 with the symbol 1 of the following sentence: "Pre-examination of the case."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u308	1104. Yeah? 1104. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:12:03]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 1105. Don't insist. 1107. Don't insist. 1108. Don't insist. 1107.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u309	I don't know how to scream, how to reach out to our colleagues to convince us of the importance of the things we're currently looking at. You understand, we have it. We're talking about pension reform being very important, we're talking about medical reform being very important, we're talking about energy reform, we're talking about the mass of other reforms, forgetting that none of them will stand a chance of being alive if we don't ensure a high-quality trial. What are we talking about? We, with a certain balance in the judiciary today in various proceedings, instead of going through unification and creating a single Supreme Court, are deepening this balance. Why are we doing this? In this case, when we're talking about a thing like the procedure for dealing with a cassation complaint, it should be the only one that's for the farm, that's for the civil process, that's for administrative litigation. That's why I'm writing this article in an editorial that will synchronize with other procedural codes that regulate the procedure for handling case-related cases before the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u310	1107. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[14:13:40]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 1110. Odarchenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u311	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorary colleagues, in Europe and in the United States, the final courts usually do not make decisions as soon as the case is considered. Since their decisions affect judicial practice, they discuss matters for some time after a court hearing. Yes, in the United States, the Supreme Court can decide matters after a court hearing and deal with them, make decisions within nine months. Since the workload on judges in the Supreme Court will be very high, it is suggested that, after a court hearing and a speech by the parties, the court announces the completion of the hearing, which is a 15 - day decision. Thus, the courts will have time for a thorough discussion, and the judges will have time for a thorough discussion, not a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-19-m0.u312	1110. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[14:15:13]] For-44 The decision is not made. 1111. Is he insisting? Yes. Colleagues, we're going to start our next 1111 session at 4:00. Please be seated. And so, colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And at 4 p.m., I invite everyone to the conference room to continue working on the law that stands in order of the day. Thank you.
