ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u1	Good morning! Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. A new day of work begins. I see there's enough in the National Deputies Hall. Please prepare for registration. And I'd like you to sign up, please. [[10:02:50]] 361 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, we have 30 minutes Wednesday morning for the national MPs. I want to emphasize, not factions, but people's deputies. So be careful when recording. Please be prepared to record the speeches of the national MPs. And I'd like you to record it. Please, colleagues, let's sign up. By Irina Igorovna, please. He's handing it over to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u2	I would like to return Parliament to the task of creating an anti-corruption court. On Monday, Parliament Speaker mistakenly informed members that the Committee on Legal Policy had declared the bill establishing an anti-corruption court unconstitutional. Mr. Speaker, there was no committee decision. I'm asking you to find out who led you astray. And all the colleagues on the legal committee wanted to say that you understand better than I do how important it is, how dependent the judges remain in ordinary courts, and how important it is to have at least one real court that puts top-corruptioners before the law. The anticorruption office with the anticorruption prosecutor’s office is most asked of Parliament by such a court because their most important investigations are being sabotaged in ordinary courts. I want to inform you that my colleagues and I have held talks with representatives of the parliaments and governments of the United States and Canada over the past two weeks. You know, in our anti-corruption court bill, we propose to involve foreigners in the selection of judges to guarantee the independence of selection procedures. In Canada and in the United States, we have met with great support for this idea, and they are ready to send such people as soon as Parliament decides. Once again, a great request to all factions will not be delayed. In any case, there will be a trial in Ukraine. It is important that he be civilized and legally, in our hands and in our responsibility to create him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u3	Thank you. Larine gives the word for the performance of Skorak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u4	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On May 2, Ukraine sadly celebrated the third sad anniversary of the tragic events in Odessa, a tragedy that claimed dozens of lives in a peaceful city, in a European city, in a European country. Sadly, society today is unaware of the real results of this tragedy. During his last press conference, the President of Ukraine said that the Ministry of Internal Affairs was ready to report to society on the results of the investigation of this tragedy. That's a very positive fact, and I hope very much, and I'm calling on the leadership of the Supreme Council, that in the near future we're going to hear about this and the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and I hope that the Office of the Attorney General's Office will be in charge, because, as far as I know, it was the Attorney General's Office that was investigating this case. This is going to be a pretty serious hub for Ukrainian society, for the relatives of the dead, for all international, authoritative international organizations to world society, as far as the law is concerned. Besides, I'd like to ask you, fellow citizens of Ukraine, with one more suggestion. On the President's website, there's a petition for a memorial sign to the victims of the May 2nd tragedy in Odessa on both sides of the Kulikov field, in the Greek Square. And I propose and urge the citizens of Ukraine, you, honourable deputies, to join in supporting this petition. Along with the real investigation of this tragedy, along with the establishment of memorable signs for the victims of this tragedy, I believe that this will be one step towards real civil reconciliation in Ukraine and the achievement of real civil peace in our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kiev. In the past and last week in the media, on many central channels and regional Odessa channels, I think it's very unpleasant for the law enforcement system that the newly created police are hiding drugs and drug sales in Odessa. If I hadn't been from this system, I'm sure it would have been out of the question, because there have been such cases all over the country before. But when journalists and public officials were cleared up about what really happened there, there was a shocking fact that the only clinic that treated drug addicts in Odessa was with the help of police, district police, was closed, and all the drug addicts who were treated there went to buy a dose the next day. Moreover, there was never in my practice that the prosecution, together with the police, would cover this up, because three weeks after the appropriate mask show and the removal of all documents, seals, drugs and so on, none of the clinic's representatives were suspected, i.e., the team, understood me as a former law enforcement officer, a team to shut down the drug trafficking in the Odessa area. And so, I'm saying it's strange that the D.A. took sides with these police officers who joined the criminal world in the Odessa area. Moreover, when this information from the media, from TV channels such as ISTV, Inter, the Odessa Regional Mental Society, came to the Attorney-General's Office, nothing more than the first deputy of the Attorney-General's Office to look into this matter in the Odessa area. Clearly, when such stories were published on the central channel, the Attorney General’s Office itself considered the case because the Odessa District Attorney’s Office and the Odessa District Attorney’s Office were involved. And here she is again in pain for those who are to blame, that is, the hand washes the hand. We're already in the middle of something. There's no time to investigate, there's time to deal with drugs in the law enforcement system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Jemeljev gives the floor to Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Tomorrow, May 18, there will be 73 years of deportation of the Crimean Tatar people from their own historical Fatherland, Crimea. Pursuant to a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 12, 2016, on May 18, was recognized as the day of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. This year, the fourth annual deportation in Crimea will take place under temporary Russian occupation. This year, like the previous three years, the occupied Crimea has banned any public action to honor the victims of the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people, except for one or two measures to be taken under the total control of the invaders. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, in order to honor the memory of the victims of the genocide, Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people is scheduled for the day before and immediately on May 18, to carry out a series of appropriate memorial measures in Ukraine and Ukraine, where the Crimean Tatar diaspora is presented. In particular, in Kiev, on May 18, 18 at the Main of Independence, there will be a sad rally dedicated to the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. Dear friends, in our lives, in our common history, tragedies, catastrophes are linked to fighting, hopes, holidays. That's what happened this year. That tomorrow is Ukrainian embroidery Day, a symbol of Ukrainian fidelity and freedom. We greatly appreciate the fact that the organ committee of the universal festival of the Ukrainian embroidery accepted an appeal to all the participants in this festival, to all the Ukrainians, at all events to mention 73-year-old times the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people and the present-day struggle against the Russian occupation. I am pleased to inform you, fellow citizens of Ukraine in particular, of the decision of the Holy Filaret to honor the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people with a bell ring from all the temples of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Tomorrow at 12 o’clock, there will be a minute of silence throughout Ukraine and in all the countries where the Crimean Tatar diaspora lives. So tomorrow we have such a hard day, but the day that also gives us hope for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Lavrick Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u10	Deputies! First of all, I want to address the head of our Parliament, Andry Volodymyrovich, to the future report of our government when the deadline for his report has arrived. I suggest we at least set a clear date for the government's report in advance. Second, to determine the whole day for the report, to listen and to ask questions should be the right of each member, especially one representing the respective majorities. This is going to be a real report. Next. I'd like to go to the government in advance. I don't know what the principle is today is for the distribution of state budget for the restoration of highways in our country. But what's going on in Sumski, my area of home and second-country territory is Chernigovsky, when the entire area of Sumska, half of the Chernigian region is actually cut off from the center of Ukraine, and we've repeatedly turned 67 people's deputies to the government leadership to pay attention to this. Today, in fact, the areas are cut off from the link. Please tell me, is that Ukraine too? Ukraine. Is that Ukrainian, too? Ukrainians. We are today, every person who lives in our territory, looking at the face and heart in Ukraine, is rebuilding the state. So let us also remember those people, not just other territories or other regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Lensky Alexei gives the floor to Oleg Valeriyovich Láška. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u12	Good afternoon, Mr. Head. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, my dear people! I'd like to raise a very important question right now: pension insurance. Millions of people in Ukraine live on copies of pensions, hard to do their whole lives. A mission from the International Monetary Fund arrived in Kiev yesterday to discuss pension reform. I call on the government to discuss pension reform not only with the International Monetary Fund mission, but primarily with the Ukrainians with those who are primarily affected by this pension reform, because every person who works has the right to know what conditions and when he will retire. That is why we demand that the government publish a pension reform project that is now consistent with the Ukrainians, not with the Ukrainian society, but with the International Monetary Fund, so that we can discuss it publicly. Second, the pension raise. The government promises to raise pensions from October 1st. "Wow-tune, and the fool's a joy." Because, in fact, along with the increase in pensions, we're going to be introduced into Parliament by a law that will provide for an increase in insurance. which will give us the right to a pension, we will be introduced into Parliament a law that will eliminate the benefits of retirement, particularly for miners, metallurgists, mechanics, chemists, other categories of workers. We're definitely against it. We also know that as a result of the increase in the minimum wage of January 1st, we have more than ten billion dollars of overturning the income of the Pension Fund, so the possibility of raising pensions is already today. Half a million people in Ukraine receive a pension of less than a thousand dollars, the so-called "social pension" is 947 dollars. Many of these people have worked, but they have not been assigned to work, so they are out of work. We're asking for this category, half a million Ukrainians, to raise their pension and set it at a minimum of at least $1,500 a month to make sure that these needy people get a pension. And the second big problem is social injustice in pensioning when one person worked his whole life, another person didn't work, and they also get a pension. Why? Because since 2012, the regions that have been hiding today under the brand of Trojan Horses in Opobloka have not counted pensions, not modernized them, and so people get a penny pension. We demand that the government immediately submit to Parliament a bill to raise pensions, to modernize them so that the minimum pension is at least three thousand dollars per month for each pensioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u13	Thank you. Fedoruk gives the floor to Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Maxim Burbak, People's Front faction, 204 constituency. Last night you and I made some big decisions in this session hall. But no matter what anyone mocks, they say they're not in the order of the day, but it's our reaction to the sluggish rematch of the regions in our country. These shameful phenomena, which were in Dniper at a so - called May Day festival, when aunts, once again, went out on the street and tried to beat participants in combat in the ATO, had to be stopped. And I am grateful to the National Police, which, in good time and in good time, stopped it, I am grateful to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Avakov for his brilliant replacements and rotations where the leadership of the updated National Police has failed. But I would also like to tell you about the disgraceful situation that happened in my native Montenegrins. There's a rematch of the regions from the rest of the Firtash team, and Ljovczyn has already taken place. There is a majority, a sold-out company majority, that does not allow the city's head, Alexia Caspere, to develop the community normally. So he was forced to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Andria Paruba to convene a working group as soon as possible to consider the situation and to make the only right decision for consideration of the Hall – the appointment of the pre-election of the city of Chernivci. We must all unite together in order to stop the rematch of the regionals — Firtasha, Lvichkina. But what are we looking at? It wasn't a group, it was already a gang. Its core is former regions, and it's unfortunate that they've been joined by posturing forces: "Paternality", "self-help", "People's Control" and "Freedom." They say they don't need an election, here are their signatures under reference. No, colleagues, no fairies, we're just doing it in a legal way by going to the scene, dealing with the situation, and taking the issue of the elections in the city of Chernivci. And I want to remind you why. Because when they illegally removed our colleague, Mikola Fedoruk, from the duties of the city’s head, they formed a pro-Forthage majority in city halls, what did they do? They've passed on the second string of gas stations worth over 23 million dollars, and they're still using it for free, and they're raising money for it. That's why there's stories on the central channels, where they're creeping and spreading fairy tales, and I'm never going to stop. Because the community's property should be returned and it should work for the community, not for the rest of the gang in the Montenegrin City Council. So, colleagues, I'm calling on everyone to take a look at this situation and you're in favour of addressing Alexia Kaspruk's city head for the elections at the Montenegrin City Council. The "Viribus Unitis" is written on the Black coat of arms together. By working together, we will stop the rematch of regions throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the national MP, Olena Sotnik. They're giving her the word. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u16	Three years have passed since the Dignity Revolution. For one year, we have been in the office of Attorney General, a person who was a direct participant in these events, including the Dignity Revolution. Sadly, though, we do not have any judgment until today after these events; no one has been held accountable. I'm just going to remind you that the tragic terrorist act that took nearly 3,000 lives in the United States was investigated for two years, and three years later, all those responsible were punished. What do we have today? To date, 90 percent of high - ranking criminals have been stopped. They are stopped in connection with the fact that these people are not in the territory of Ukraine, and they are being searched. We know that many of them live in the Russian Federation. This Parliament has accepted changes to the long sentence in order to still bring such people to justice. But none of them even have a judgment. Azarov, Yanukovich, is now completely excluded by Interpol from international search. Why? An improper, indiscreet investigation in the middle of Ukraine, does not provide sufficient evidence, does not provide sufficient information. Ivanyushenko – criminal conduct has been halted at all. It has been suspended in connection with the inactivity of the Attorney General’s Office. This is reflected in the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And no person in the Attorney General's office was responsible for that. Me. I have an answer from the Attorney General that yes, it is a fact, but, unfortunately, today, no one, although they have specific names, has been held accountable. The clearance process in the Attorney General's Office has been suspended. I spoke yesterday about the specific names of prosecutors who supported the charges, who arrested the court; today they work in the Attorney General's Office, they lead the departments, and they lead the administration. The Attorney General gave me an answer a week ago because there is no basis for these people to be released. Although we do have article 3 of the Law on the Cleanse of Power, which clearly indicates that these people must be released. I have a very simple question for the Attorney-General, who was recently an active participant in the Dignity Revolution: where the results are at least on this crucial social issue. We want to see the verdicts. We want to see people who were guilty, who actually took the lives of the best Ukrainians, our best citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Now the National MP, Skork, is handing over the word to his colleague Nestor Schufrich. Please, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u18	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! If God wants someone to be commanded, he takes away his mind. Otherwise, it is impossible to appreciate what the authorities did yesterday. But in principle, for the last three years, what power has been doing is impossible to understand because people, waiting for this democratic power, have felt what it is to live in a new way. And that means living six times as poor; paying five times more, and getting three times less is a new life. Like it or not, it's true. And you know, there were some people here who mentioned the regions. I'll tell you, those people who were around 10 million people who voted all the time supported the Party of Regions, and I'm sorry today that this party was disbanded, they're in this room fighting for people's interests, fighting for peace. And today I want to quote Trump, the President of the United States, "Let's make peace." Please tell me, with the decisions we made yesterday about the george tape, about blocking the most popular internet resources, are we going to be able to achieve peace? Is this the way to peace? No, that's the way to fight. And when I'm asked abroad and in Ukraine, "Tell me, please, when will this peace come?"and I keep saying, "Unfortunately, when this power goes." The sooner this authority goes, the more real the prospects for peace will be. And they ask me, "When is this going to happen?".. I say, "You know, in Ukraine this could happen any time -- two months from now, three months from now, and over a year." So the 17th, the 18th year, I want to believe that they're going to take Ukraine from this power, because today's power is one of the Bolsheviks: censorship, the ban on heroic symbols, the ban on national symbols. But everything can't be forbidden. People will go up and say their word. And you can hide in the 17th. You can hide in the 18th. But, colleague, 19th year no one changed! Spring and elections will come, which means you will go! And you're six months from now, believe my practice, you're going to disappear like dew in the sun, because all you have is trouble, war and death. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u19	Next, please, the People's Deputies of Helen Boyko. He's giving the word to his colleague Yuri Berezi. Please, Mr. Yuri. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! We just heard Agent Nestor Kutuzov's artistic whistle. The Ukrainian people have already given you an answer when you went on a tour of propaganda of Russian or Russian peace in the south of Ukraine. Do you have a minute? You don't have enough. Listen, Fifth Column, and pack up your stuff, go to the cholera! Go to Moscow! Watch "Contact"! Get all the george tapes, shove them up your ass, light them up and jump from the 9th floor! Your colleagues have done this before. Listen! Ukraine has taken place, and no cholera sitting on the left side of me will do anything! Because the Ukrainian people are wiser than you are. The Ukrainian people, as you didn't cheat on him, as you didn't drive him into the Party of Regions, as you didn't scream that Janukovitch, for the next 20 years, he gave you an answer on Maidan. And that's true. Are you now appealing to the President of the United States? Listen, you know, you're the cheap clowns who called for their home land, for your native homeland's war, you called for Russian troops. Thanks to you, Crimea was diverted. Thanks to you, they are being bullied by the Crimean Tatars! And you're dancing on these bones. It's a holiday for you. For you, the holiday is "Contact." Listen, if our bad country is such a bad state, come on, gather around, gather around in friendly lines and throw it where it's good. Where the Soviet Union is, where the George tapes are, where Vkontakte is, the Yandex. You know, I know clearly, after May 9, what you did in Dniper, when you humiliated the participants in the battle for Ukraine, where you beat mercilessly, mercilessly, you know, you will no longer be forgiven. And your return will not be. Because you're ashamed. You had a chance, but you didn't use it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the last of the speakers, Dudenkov. He is given the word of a fellow worker. Please, People's Deputies. And let's actually use the parliamentary language for all of the factions, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor. My theme is to reform Ukraine's pension system, because very many coalition representatives and former coalition representatives say that it is necessary to reform, to modernize Ukraine's pension system. It should be noted that the pension problem has matured in our country. The pension deficit accounts for some 145 billion dollars, which are covered by the state budget of Ukraine. The revenue part of the government budget is 800 billion dollars. Just think, the fifth, the sixth bracelet is going to cover the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. In Ukraine 12 million pensioners, a little over 13 million workers, or 1.1 workers, have to support 1 pensioner. This is a solidarity system that was developed by Bismarck in the 19th century. But, I'm sorry, she's exhausted. We can't talk about any reform, we can't talk about any of these legislative changes that will be made, that are now being scrupulously discussed with representatives of the International Monetary Fund, and we don't talk about the basic positions that are being proposed for future pensioners, we can't do that, we don't have the moral right to say that this is a reform of the pension system. We need to deal with this in a comprehensive way, we need to look at not just point changes to the solidarity system, we need to put in place very active non-state pension funds and a system of stockpiling funds that exist around the world. There can be no pensioners, 10 million of whom receive the same pension when each of the pensioners worked or worked more or paid more social contributions. Just think, out of the 12 million pensioners, 10 million get a little over 1,700 dollars. This is where the representatives of the radical opposition say that it is necessary to increase the pension because they raised the minimum wage when voting on the State Budget Act. This rise is fair and formal. The only way to raise wages is with real growth in the economy. And when the economy doesn't really grow, there's nothing to raise the minimum wage. A little help. More than 120 billion dollars go towards the creation of the Pension Fund at the expense of the only social contribution. What form are they proposing? Instead of reducing the shadow sector of the economy, unfortunately, the current authorities offer nothing but a physical reduction in the number of pensioners. The Opposition Block faction says it's not a reform. First of all, the structural formation of the pension reform must be carried out, which should be combined with the implementation of a comprehensive tax reform from the detinction of Ukraine's economy by reducing the tax burden on the wage fund. And only in this case can we talk about a comprehensive pension reform, not what is being done now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u23	Thank you. The time for the talks has come to an end. Thank you, Mr. Chubarov, for reminding us in his speech that tomorrow will be embroidery day. And traditionally, I'm sure a lot of national MPs will traditionally come into the embroidery room. And now I would like to warn you that today in the daytime we have issues that are complex, unifying, and call the hall to effective and fast work. We have three ratifications and then the issue of protecting the rights of the child, a question that we haven't reached in the last Wednesday. And I want to call on all the national MPs to work effectively so that we can go through the agenda today. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, and we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. And please prepare for the vote. The first is the draft Act amending paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Social Charter (0142). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please take up jobs. And I'm asking you to support hearing 0142 on a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote. [[10:38:50]] For 133 I'll do it again, colleagues. And I'll remind you again: three ratifications that have no discussion positions, and then the issue of Child Protection Day, which the committee has been waiting for a long time. On Wednesday, I try to ask questions that unite the hall. But in order for us to work effectively, I think it would be logical for us to consider a simplified procedure of issues on which there is no political debate. So once again, I ask you to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues. Colleagues, I am voting on a simplified procedure for the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Social Charter (0142). Please vote, please support. Vote, vote, colleagues, please support. [[10:40:21]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft act amending paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the European Social Charter (reviewed) which was ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September 2006. Ukraine joined the 74 out of 98 paper points. Today, 43 member states of the Council of Europe are parties to the Charter, and France and Portugal have fully joined the Charter. The draft act is developed in the framework of the implementation of the 2015-2019 Charter Security and Implementation Plan. This plan was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since May 2015. The implementation of the Act provides for the inclusion of Ukraine in article 12, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the right to social security of the European Social Charter as reviewed. On the one hand, Ukraine will once again reaffirm the State's intention to move firmly towards guaranteeing social security in accordance with the standards set out in European social standards. On the other hand, we'll talk again about our intention to move towards raising social standards for our citizens. Article 12 of the Charter, in particular paragraph 3, provides for the effective realization of the right to social security and for efforts to progressively increase the social security system to a higher level. This means that citizens who work legally and pay social security contributions will receive adequate insurance in case of an emergency. Today, the government of Ukraine is taking all measures to take into account financial opportunities in order to raise social standards and guarantees. With regard to article 12, paragraph 4, which provides for the adoption of bilateral and multilateral international agreements to ensure equality between their own citizens and citizens of other parties in the area of social security? It is worth stressing that the conclusion of international social security agreements will help to regulate the legal field.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u25	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u26	Compilation of international social security agreements will help to regulate the legal field of legal labour migration of citizens who work or work in other countries. The Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, in section III "Justice, Freedom and Security" of article 17, "Construction with workers" and article 18, "Mobility of workers", provides for equal treatment of workers who are citizens of Ukraine and who are legally employed in the territory of a Member State in respect of working conditions, remuneration or dismissal compared to the citizens of that State. Saving existing employment opportunities for Ukrainian workers provided by Member States under bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u27	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 12 April, considered a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine amending paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the ratification of the European Social Charter (reviewed) and adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the specified draft law on the basis and as a whole. The aim of the adoption of this draft law is to improve, develop and raise Ukraine's social security system to a higher level in line with European standards, namely equality between citizens of the social security page, including benefits and preservation, the restoration of social security rights by means such as the total insurance period. The adoption of the bill will enhance cooperation between the member states of the Council of Europe. I also ask you to support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and to adopt the draft Act amending paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the European Social Charter (Reviewed) and to support this decision of the Committee. I would also like to say that there will be a historic signing in Strasbourg today of our visa-free regime. This is a joint achievement of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian President, the Ukrainian Government, the Ukrainian civil society. And I think that as a parliament, we should think about what the next steps are, namely, to boost economic trade with the European Union, with Canada after the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement. I think it's very important to support those plans, especially the Lithuanians, that have developed a plan for real investments in the economy of Ukraine in order to get us out of the crisis and not just get IMF tranches for macro-financial stability. And now we have a delegation of Lithuanian parliamentarians. So I think there's a lot of work that we can do through reforms when there's monitoring to show that our movement towards change in the state is constant and we're not doing any back-up in anti-corruption legislation, and we're doing everything we can to make Ukraine with high standards and security for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. And I call for flexibility during the performances so that we can go through the agenda. Please. Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u30	Please give my word to my colleague Kudlainka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko clearly supports the amendments to the Law on the Ratification of the European Social Charter. These changes are aimed at expanding Ukraine’s social security commitments. This is another testimony to the desire of our faction, the parliamentary coalition, the President and the government to find ways to ensure a decent life for Ukrainian society. And this is done in concrete ways and, in particular, in making additional commitments in an international treaty that will contribute to raising social standards and the standard of living of Ukrainians. On the other hand, the proposed extensions relate to ensuring the equality of citizens of Ukraine and citizens of the signatory countries of this charter in the rights to social security benefits and other social protection. It is particularly important to adopt this law in view of the granting of a visa-free regime in order to ensure that Ukrainians in Europe have equal and dignified rights. That's why the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Chismar Yuri Vasilovich, the Radical Party, gives the word of Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u33	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I'm asking you to include a graph on the screen. I want to show you a forecast for the Department of Economics and Social Affairs, the United Nations. This forecast indicates that under the basic scenario, less than 30 million Ukrainians will be in the next few decades. Think about that figure. This is the demographic, economic, and social catastrophe that the United Nations will calculate for us. If this scenario comes true, it's going to be the collapse of that country that we knew with you and that our children will know completely different, it's a strategic deadlock that leads the country to power, with one hand to acquire IMF survival and nutrition loans, and with another hand to preserve the old corruption schemes and inefficiency of the economy. Postponing the country’s necessary radical systemic reforms, using imitation and propaganda, the authorities steal Ukraine’s future, steal confidence in tomorrow’s day, hope and sense of stability for every citizen. No one can be sure that our children will live better than we do if this scenario is implemented. Instead of immediately changing course, in fact, the Titanic is divided into cabins, they're deceiving passengers. The Radical Party faction calls for the immediate implementation of the economic anti-crisis plan, which we have proposed to Parliament, which provides for financial stability, industrial recovery, development of the Ukrainian village, overcoming corruption and the country's energy independence. This is a complex plan that can dramatically change the situation in the country and improve the real quality of life of citizens. I would like to invite everyone to join in the implementation of this national plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u34	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens who are now observing everything that is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, this bill, it would seem, is a formal one that today makes declarative changes to the European Social Charter ratified by Ukraine (reviewed). It is not mandatory, for there are items that are required for the government of Ukraine, but there are those that give guidance as to what the government should go to. And look, two main points. The first point is to raise the social security of citizens to a decent level. To a worthy man. So the point is that if we now ratify and amend the ratified European Social Charter (reviewed), the government, when introducing the Pension Reform Act now, should respond, in accordance with this document. First, when will the subsistence minimum for Ukrainian citizens be established in accordance with the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act? Because that's the value of a consumer basket. For today, even if I take a living minimum for disabled people, I'll remind everyone, it's a thousand 312 dollars today. While every Ukrainian national MP can go to the Ministry of Social Policy website and see: by the 20th of every month, the Ministry publishes the actual size of the subsistence minimum. So the actual now in March is 2 thousand 390 dollars, 2 thousand 398 dollars. In fact, the government does not pay more than a thousand dollars each month to retirees, each pensioner. The second question is the question of migrant workers. And here is a very important point where we have constantly insisted that there be a solidarity of insurance in Ukraine when these people were working, and when they are now working outside Ukraine, it is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u36	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u37	And I'd like, I'm going to ask the government of Ukraine, first of all, to introduce an appropriate bill and strengthen it, because that's it. This is reinforced by interstate agreements, to strengthen work with the countries of the European Union where our citizens are working today, primarily with Poland, Spain, Portugal and other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u38	Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich is invited to attend. And if you'll excuse me, there'll be a vote in two or three minutes. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! The countries of the Council of Europe signed the European Social Charter and Ukraine also joined in this document, which is called upon to create the only European social standards. The ultimate goal of this charter is to create a system in which citizens of all countries that are part of the Council of Europe will have the same social protection regardless of their place of residence. Regrettably, for Ukraine, this charter is only a formal document that does not apply to practical activities either to government or to the Supreme Council. The social standards of Ukrainians are tens of times lower than the social standards of any country in Europe. When we ratified the paper, we noted that we were only taking on a very limited circle of responsibilities. Today, the government is proposing to adopt two more: raise social standards and make bilateral international agreements for the preservation of pensions and social benefits for citizens moving between countries. I'll be honest with you, it's purely declarative, and it's just that you could still take it a lot. In fact, it's just a statement by Ukraine that someday we're going to raise social standards. And perhaps again, as the government has done, due to an increase in the dollar rate or an increase in Ukraine's debt. I want no one in Ukraine to feel or realize that this will change our lives. This law needs to be voted upon; it can be adopted immediately in general, but please do not ask anyone to be happy that its adoption will somehow affect people’s lives. There is no practical influence on this law. I believe that the Supreme Council should deal with the adoption of laws that will bear witness to real reforms, to the issues referred to by the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u40	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u41	are related to the fact that the government in the parliamentary republic today is trying to introduce and consider a law with the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u42	Thank you, colleagues. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Let's move on to making a decision. One more minute from the non-faction Illenco. In a minute, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. Turn on Ilyenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u43	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, the European Social Charter is an important declaration document, but we have to understand that, unfortunately, despite these declarations, it is absolutely right for us to vote for. Indeed, what is happening in Ukraine today is totally contrary to European social policy and the protection of people's labour rights, their socio-economic rights. Because what is now being pushed forward, particularly in Parliament, in the form of the so-called new Labour Code, and this directly relates to the social rights of people, this is the implementation of the oligarchic policy, this is the implementation of the policy against the interests of the vast majority of Ukrainians who are hired workers. And accordingly, we speak and declare European norms, but in practice it is the Third World countries that live by the standards that we are now offered in the so-called new Labour Code, and the real European standards of developed countries are the protection of social human rights, which unfortunately only distances us from what we have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u44	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I am voting on the draft Act amending paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the European Social Charter (No. 0142) as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote 0142 in general. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:57:48]] For 226 Decision taken. We need to be more disciplined. Next draft of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Economic Cooperation (0138). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:58:22]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Mikolska Natalya Jaroslavna. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u45	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration is a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Republic of Croatia on economic cooperation. The bill provides for the ratification of the agreement made on March 27, 2013, in Kiev. Why is this covenant important? Croatia as a member of the EU, we have a regime on free trade, we have a steady increase in exports of Ukrainian goods and services. In 2016, for example, our exports to Croatia amounted to more than $40 million and increased by almost half from 2015. We also think Croatia is a promising market for Ukrainian goods and services, and this is actually what Croatia was defined in our analysis and research in the preparation of Ukraine's export strategy. The main purpose of this covenant, when it comes to the covenant itself, is three things. First, this is a permanent dialogue between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Croatia to identify in the forward-looking areas concrete action plans and projects for cooperation within the framework of the creation of an inter-government Ukrainian-Croatian commission. Second, this expansion goes, the validation of mutually beneficial cooperation and the conclusion of agreements for cooperation in specific areas. For example, we have this machine-building, energy, ship-building, infrastructure, agriculture and other sectors where Croatia has enough know-how and is interested in investments in Ukraine to produce goods and services for export to the European Union market. The third important aspect in the context of decentralization is the issue of inter-regional economic development and regional cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u46	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u47	This agreement also provides for the expansion of regional cooperation. It is a great request to support the ratification of this agreement and to provide an institutional actual document for our cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u48	Thank you. The report invites the Secretary of the European Integration Committee, Captain Olena Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u49	Thank you. Economics, not a secret to anyone, is the foundation of our country’s well - being and is a prerequisite for our independence, independence, and subjectivity. In fact, why is this treaty important, despite the fact that we have a Free Trade Agreement with the European Union, with Croatia. I have to remind myself that the current Prime Minister of this country, Andri Plenkovic, was a great friend and supported Ukraine when he worked in the European Parliament and headed the European Parliament at that time, the European Committee on Association with Ukraine. Today, as Prime Minister, his first visit, an official visit to countries, i.e. separate from Brussels, was made to Ukraine for the first time. In the same vein, Croatia stressed that Ukraine is a strategic partner. And in fact, this agreement creates preconditions for this strategic partnership to strengthen and strengthen with a key economic view for us. Mrs. Mikolska has just reported on the increase in exports of Ukrainian goods to Croatia. The export strategy presented by the Ministry of Economics is now crucial and important after the loss of Ukraine through occupation, through the military actions of the Russian Federation of Markets. Croatia is one of those countries that can become a new alternative virtually place where our business can pay attention and where we can really build a very deep cooperation. So during the committee's consideration, we unanimously supported the decision on the need for ratification of the agreement, and I ask all colleagues to take very seriously and very seriously the responsibility to build our strategic relationship with Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Please two in, two in, two in. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We demand that the government change economic policies radically. The government must pursue a policy of economic nationalism aimed at creating jobs for Ukrainians, providing jobs, wages, and decent living for Ukrainians. All agreements that do not meet this policy of economic nationalism must be either reviewed or broken. For example. Free Trade Agreement. The quotas set out under this agreement for the provision of Ukrainian products without duties on the European Union market are scarce. It's a cavern, not a Free Trade Agreement, where our national manufacturers can't even get their noses out. So far, our European partners are conducting anti-dumping investigations against the producers of our metallurgical ones. I ask: Is this friendly action when our Ukrainian enterprises are unable to implement their products? Next. The government has made a commitment in exchange for another loan, which we have to repay, to cancel our moratorium on the removal from Ukraine of unprocessed roundwood. Investors go to Ukraine, invest in money, create new jobs, the government wants to stop all of this from leaving Ukraine out of work, and the raw forest is exported abroad. The government signs a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund to sell our native Ukrainian land instead of selling produce from this land. I ask, where is the work of the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in lobbying the interests of national producers in foreign markets? We demand a radical change in economic policy. Working places are for the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u52	Jurik Taras Zinovyovich, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the Peter Prashenko bloc will support the ratification of this agreement. This agreement is aimed at deepening economic and industrial development with Croatia, a member of the European Union, including the establishment of a bilateral commission to work on cooperation projects. Because Croatia has roughly the same GDP as Ukraine, but given that Croatia's population is only 4.5 million people, we have a huge potential for investing in machine-building, ship-building, infrastructure development. All of this will increase the overall trend of Ukraine's European integration, create an additional positive image as an equal and reliable partner. So the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party sees great opportunities for the development of the Ukrainian economy through the ratification of the agreement. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u55	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." The will of the people will support the ratification of this agreement, because cooperation with the countries of the European Union and our partners has to be based on different documents so that there are no obstacles to this cooperation. Croatia also has for us, as well as a strategic partner, it also has an example for us to complete the so - called events that are taking place in the east because we remember that the military conflict in Croatia has been going on for a long time and they have work to do, and we have to take the experience of this country and take what we need and end the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u56	Colleagues, closing statement, Dudenkov Alexander. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Opposition Block is not against the bills relating to the ratification of international legal agreements and to scientific and technical cooperation, and to economic cooperation, including the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we respect the representatives of the country in question, but we don't vote because the order of the day is empty, it doesn't actually solve the issues, the urgent issues that apply to the internally displaced who are dealing with pensioners, the incomprehensible issues that the government is currently negotiating with the International Monetary Fund. There are no strategic economic reforms. Now all they're saying is that it's necessary to support a domestic producer, and what kind of Supreme Council has passed laws in the last six months that are specifically aimed at supporting the domestic economy? In addition to words other than populism, we need to take decisive steps. In particular, the Opposition Block faction has registered Bill 6446, which provides for exemption from taxation of all major manufacturing products, all spheres of production. Not just woodworking, not just an agro-industrial complex, an atomic industry, a metallurgy, a chemical industry, all those industries that are critical, which are technologically developed, which will not allow our country to become a raw agrarian supplement, an addition to other more economically developed countries. It should be noted that no bill that will now be voted on, except for the protection of the rights of the child, which we will support by voting, applies to the solution of urgent problems. And it's a shame that we're just doing speech, populism and self-piarus right now, not solving the problems of people who are being led to poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u58	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Croatia is indeed one of our closest strategic partners, and the Croatian Government today is the great supporters of Ukraine led by Plenkovic. And let's demonstrate by voting both our cooperation and our potential. Please, I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Economic Cooperation (0138) proposed by the Committee as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, 0138 as a whole. [[11:11:21]] For 214 Obviously, not all were able to approach. I beg you, colleagues, now, I see, invite everyone into the hall, the heads of the factions, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall, do not go out, but come into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. Colleagues, I'm counting on this to be our common position and mutual commitment. And I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask you to show the results of the previous panel vote. And I put to the vote the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Economic Cooperation (0138) Arthur. Please vote, please support the return to the question. Colleagues, please, each voice has weight. So I would like to vote in favour of the return to debate 0138. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:13:26]] For 230 230, back. Now I'm putting the vote again, please don't leave the workplace. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Economic Cooperation (0138) as a whole, as proposed by the Committee. Please vote and please support, colleagues, in total 0138. I ask you carefully and please take part in the vote. We're voting 0138, as a whole. Please be supportive. [[11:14:17]] For 231 The decision is taken, the law is passed. And the last draft of the Ratification Act is the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Scientific and Technical Cooperation (0140). And I ask you to support the review of the reduced procedure, please vote, please support. [[11:14:50]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u59	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Honourable National Deputies! The agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic was signed on 19 December 2011. The agreement foresees the development of these relationships on a long-term stable basis and foresees the implementation of such forms of international scientific and technical cooperation: exchange of scientific and technical information, exchange of scientists and experts, joint seminars, conferences and exhibitions, training of scientists and experts in the field of technology, joint scientific research and, finally, joint participation in international projects. The agreement envisions the creation of a joint committee on scientific and technical cooperation between the two governments and, importantly, provides guarantees for the protection of intellectual property created by the entry of such cooperation. What is so important about this covenant? The Czech Republic is one of the most developed scientific countries in Europe with which Ukraine has stable long - standing ties. At the same time, it was still the only country in the part of the continent where we did not have such an agreement and then this cooperation was not organized. Ratification of the agreement is still very important because bilateral cooperation with the Czech Republic is moving smoothly into multilateral scientific cooperation within the framework of the European Horizon 2020 programme. This agreement is extremely important for the support of Ukrainian science, Ukrainian scientists, and Ukrainian technology and the Ukrainian economy. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u60	Thank you. A member of the Committee on European Integration, Ms. Olena Sergiyevna, is invited to the report. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u61	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of the committee were of the opinion that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary to conclude the agreement. Acquisition of validity by the agreement will contribute to the development of bilateral relations on a stable long-term basis. The agreement strengthens the desire of treaty parties to develop, strengthen and diversify cooperation in the fields of science and technology of common interest. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which stresses that the agreement can be ratified Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. And to the extent possible, let's talk about and move on to the children's rights block. Please record. A loudspeaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today's scientific and economic policy of power, which is being implemented, is turning the country into a nation of immigrants, and the country into a raw country of the world. You see, today it's much easier for a talented person to go abroad, give him such a wage to move his entire family than to bring equipment to the country for scientific research, for production, for any development of innovation. This is a completely abnormal situation, because even if this equipment is imported, it's covered in import duties, VAT. If it has already been imported, we need to join the power grid, and there's the dragon's cost of connecting with the NCRECR. And then, when they get to work, there's crazy checks on the power structures that do raiding and looting. We need to put an end to this. We need to get the system inside the country. Of course, important international cooperation, and the faction of the Radical Party will fully support it. But the main thing is to set up such a system within the country, so that through the education and science system we can prepare high-quality personnel that don't become immigrants as soon as they finish higher education and who go to work for Ukrainian production, where they earn a decent salary. That is why the Radical Party faction, together with its counterparts, has proposed a comprehensive system-wide anti-crisis plan for economic development, which includes bills that have already been tabled before Parliament to eliminate import duties for all manufacturing equipment in all sectors of the Ukrainian economy, a three-year schedule of import VAT for all equipment, industrial park legislation. The Export Credit Agency Act has already been passed, which must immediately be created by the government, because national economic policies must be pursued in the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u64	Thank you. Vitaly's smoking, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u65	Please pass the word Alexia Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Peter Dustenk bloc will support the ratification of this agreement. In fact, the parliament of the previous call was long overdue to ratify this treaty because the treaty was signed in 2011. And under these conditions, where Ukrainian science has been and survived all this time, the deal with the Czech Republic has been a sip of fresh air for local scientists and university students. It also discusses the close cooperation of Ukrainian scientists with Czech colleagues, the use of modern resources and equipment for the implementation of scientific projects, the joint financing of projects, this is all very important for the development of science in Ukraine, to improve the quality of education of national universities. Ratification will contribute to the integration of Ukrainian intellectual elites into the European scientific technical community. It is also a restoration of the image of Ukraine as a nation with enormous scientific potential in the world, in Europe. Under the terms of the agreement, a special commission will be set up to determine the directions and specific projects for the collaborative work of scientists. So the Supreme Council doesn't have to postpone the ratification of this agreement anymore, and the Peter Prashenko Block calls for all to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u67	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall so that we don't vote later. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, and the heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall. And he has a word. The geese pass on to Igor Shurma. Turn on the microphone from the spot. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u68	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the ratification of international agreements provides for a mutually beneficial partnership between the two states, and then for a mutually beneficial partnership between those institutions that are enshrined in this agreement. Without a doubt, Czechs as leaders of finance, support and achievements in science would like to have an equal partner from Ukraine. Now let us see what we have today to present Ukraine in a dignified way. Has anyone analyzed the funding for the 2017 National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences? But there's 50 percent of the funding that's needed. Let's see how the National Academy of Medical Sciences is financed. There is no need there today and 50 percent of the need. And with what face today will scientific research institutes come up as equal partners for some joint projects? I will give you just one example of how today the Ministry of Health will represent the interests of Ukraine. 26 deputies from different factions, from different territories, signed a petition to the Cabinet for the transfer of the Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology to the balance of the Lviv Medical University. The year lasted until Kabmin was able to make a decision. And April 26 is that decision. And from 26 to this day three weeks ago, the Ministry of Health is unable to issue an order for the transfer to the meduniversity of this research institute, to create an inventory commission -- and to see how this university can be financed, which can be partnered with Czechs. With this attitude of the state to institutions that it doesn't even spend money on, and it doesn't even allow the university to finance it itself, it's just embarrassing to count on a partnership. Before they go out for ratification, let the State of Ukraine fulfill its obligations before.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please, colleagues. We're going to vote now. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, this is one minute. We count each vote then, we go back to the vote. Please be responsible and disciplined. One minute. Colleagues, therefore, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Scientific and Technological Cooperation (No. 0140) as a whole. Colleagues, please take up jobs. And please vote, please support the entire agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on scientific and technological cooperation. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Vote. [[11:26:27]] For 217 It's not a victory yet! But we pledge our victory, and every vote is a step towards victory. Now, colleagues, during the vote, some generally do not go to their jobs or vote. Please, colleagues, take up your jobs. Why don't you come to the hall? Colleagues, I am now proposing a return to the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. Please vote. Please support the return to 0140. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:27:27]] For 227 And now I'm betting. Please remain seated, and I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic (0140) as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. They're coming, our colleagues are coming. So please support 0140 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:28:13]] For 230 Decision taken. Now victory, the law is passed. Colleagues, let's move on to the children's rights cluster. The first law in this block is the second reading, where there are only four amendments. So I have a great request to keep my distance. This will be considered literally for five minutes, and immediately for the vote. I ask you very much to be in my workplace for five minutes now. We are going to consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the right of a child to adequate maintenance (4928). And I invite you to report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport of Veliczkowich Mikola Romanović. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u70	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! Uncertainty in the current legislation of some issues related to child alimony, ambiguity in court practice regarding the application of existing legislation results in limitations on the rights of persons benefiting from alimony. Alimony payers who deliberately avoid child custody may use procedural standards to delay the trial, resulting in violations of the rights of children to receive appropriate payments. In the case of adoption of the bill, the parent with whom the child resides can quickly receive a court order for the withdrawal of alimony of 1 child to a quarter, 2 children to a third, 3 or more children to a half of the income of the alimony payer, but not more than 10 living minimums per child of the appropriate age for each child. The bill proposes that the right to appeal the court order be revoked. That is, the child will be able to receive immediate payment, and the parents will have no time for possible abuse. At the same time, the bill came up with proposals by Ukrainian national deputies drawn up at the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate for the restoration of the right to appeal against a court order. The table gives an argument to the committee regarding the rejection of these amendments. I would like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly stated that the State may impose restrictions on the rights of persons to access to justice. Allowing alimony payers to charge a court order would result in a child’s being denied custody, since on average the court’s consideration of alimony is one and a half years and a half. The Chief Legal Authority supported the committee’s position and called for a bill without notice. At the same time, according to the proposed wording of the Ukrainian CDC article, the alimony payer reserves the right to appeal to the court for the reduction of alimony. During all court proceedings, however, the child will receive alimony. In all, 24 amendments were made to the bill. The committee proposes to take 12 amendments into account, to reject 5 amendments and to take into account 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on, amenders. A total of four corrections were rejected. 11th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 14th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 21st, Dove. Don't insist. And 23rd, Anointed. Don't insist. Colleagues, so we can go to the vote. Everyone, please step into the hall and prepare for the vote. Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for the thorough report. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the right of the child to due custody (No. 4928) as proposed by the Second Committee and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! [[11:32:27]] For 226 The law is passed. Colleagues, next questions about the child's rights block. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code (5101). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:33:04]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Timoshenko Yuri Volodymirovich. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u72	Friends, aren't we all parents in this room? I want to talk about the most expensive thing that is in the lives of each of us, about our children, because my bill can touch, touch the lives of any of our children, or more of our grandchildren at any moment. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code (for the enforcement of the child’s housing rights). Friends are known to be responsible for the protection of the child’s personal, property, and housing rights. Despite the responsibility of the custody and custody body involved in the court’s proceedings, including in the fourth section of article 19 of the Family Code, the authorities involved often avoid its implementation and, as a result, the obligation to provide written conclusions on the settlement of the dispute, referring to the absence of direct guidance on the involvement or removal of the child from the registration of the place of residence, and to misinterpretation of the stated standard. For example, the protocol No. 6 of the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child's Executive Committee of the Colombian City Council of June 10, 15 states that "the court's consideration of the issue of evicting a child from the home provides for the participation of staff of the Service in children's affairs in order to protect the interests of the child without concluding on the possibility and purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u73	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u74	It's important. Such cases are not uncommon in our country without care and care. The bill proposes to amend article 19 of the Ukrainian Family Code to complement the list of disputes over the protection of family rights and interests, which must be resolved by the guardianship and custody of disputes over the expression or withdrawal of a child from registration. Others.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, we still have to get to the vote. 30 seconds to go, please. Come on, shorty is the sister of the talent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u76	Friends, in their own words, divorce, divorce, and suffering children, banks take away apartments from people, people who may be guilty of something but are suffering their innocent children. Our children are non-partisan and non-political. Please, let us all unite, vote. Voting for this bill will betray all of us against all of our children. Thank you. And I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. I now invite the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, John Sporish, to report. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u78	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! Indeed, Yuri Timoshenko’s emotions are just because we are today considering this respect for the child’s housing rights. The bill proposes to add to the list of issues that the court considers for the mandatory involvement of the body of care and care for the removal or removal of the child from the residence registration. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the President-designate of Ukraine for the rights of the child, all support this bill unanimously. During the discussion of the draft law, members of the committee stressed that its approval would protect the child’s housing rights. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft bill as a basis and as a whole. The title of the bill is as follows: "To amend article 19 of the Ukrainian Family Code to ensure that the child's housing rights are respected, section 1 of the bill and to amend it as follows: "The first part of the fourth. Article 19 after the words “the place of residence of the child” add to the words “the removal, removal of the child from the registration of the place of residence or the recognition of the child in such a way that she has lost the right to use the accommodation.” So the committee, and I think we're going to be united by this bill, and we're all going to vote unanimously for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can now sign up for this bill. I'm asking you to sign off on the factions. Did you have something to say? Please, you see, your right to speak. National MP Kuprienko of the Radical Party, please. He'll be out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u80	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Finally, in this room we have come up with non-political bills that will improve people's lives and, in particular, protect the rights of our underage citizens, who are very often violated, especially in family disputes. This bill is very correct, but so that we don't lose the idea itself, I propose that we vote it out in general with a little amendment, which is the following. The guardianship and guardianship of the law are the functions of local councils. All councils create performances, but usually they don't register as legal persons, and this happens, I wouldn't say, a colossal, but a mistake when the custody and custody body is not represented by the right party, not a legal person. So my proposal, after the words "with the involvement of the body of custody and care," is to add the words "presented by a proper legal person" and to vote on it in general. And then there will be no way to avoid decent, honest parents who avoid their duty, protect and raise the children they have made, excuse me, find loopholes in the law, invalidate the decision on the grounds that it was not a legal person or not a legal person at all, to protect the interests of the child in the trial. So to the drafters of the bill, I really thank you, as a lawyer, as a person who's been involved in this life, for protecting, for this bill, but I'm asking you to make this amendment and we're voting in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Leonid Jemetz, faction of the People's Front city of Kiev. In fact, the bill that we have considered before this and this bill are called upon to resolve a number of very important issues for the future of those children who unfortunately have been in a situation where their parents cannot find understanding and shared responsibility for the future of the child they brought into this world. So if the past bill allowed us to provide for materiality, even if a couple avoid alimony payments, but their lives and lifestyles show that they have money, banally, if they are resting in expensive resorts, buying expensive things, cars, and showing in court that they have zero income that they can give to a child, then the state is obliged by court to force such an irresponsible father to spend some of its savings on raising a child that he has brought to this world. And the same question applies to this bill that we are considering right now. By fully supporting the rights proposed by a colleague from the Radical Party, Mr. Kuprienk, our faction proposes to support this bill as we supported the last bill of our colleague, Amazanov, and finally to ensure the proper level of protection of the rights of children who are in a situation where their parents are divorcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Colleagues, we have a chance to go through the entire agenda, so I'm really asking in a very concise way that we can work more effectively. Please, Yuri Pavlovenko. Mr. Yuri, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u84	Unfortunately, it is the very essence of the bill that is lost by proud claims to protect children’s rights. What would you like to say? The article in force sets out the cases in which the care and care body is involved. That's why the need to clarify them, namely, the term "including," in our opinion, is unnecessary. In addition, such an approach can narrow down the practice of circumstances that will not be directly provided for in the article of the Codex. As a result, the bill may increase child rights violations. That's why we're going to abstain from voting, and the more the national MPs have already made comments to the body of the bill, not the whole vote, but the first reading and the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u85	Sergey's Melnichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u86	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The will of the people group wants to thank the drafters of the bill, because in this situation in the country, at least the last five governments are working on it. to destroy the Ukrainian nation, to impoverish the Ukrainian people. And the situation that the Ukrainian people are currently in, especially our future -- our children -- we have to protect them as much as possible. Because parents are getting divorced, parents are dying, parents are moving, big migrations are taking place, bank loans taken by parents, raiders come to their parents, move young children and so on, and so on. Many cases and situations involving young children are important. The People's Will Group will support and thank you for the amendment of the first speaker. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u87	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, prepare for the vote. If you'd like to invite the deputies into the hall, we'll move on to making a decision. One minute while the MPs are on their way. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u88	I want to urge all my colleagues to mobilize now and vote for this bill very important because it is here that I do not agree with my colleague, because we are also increasing and strengthening the rights of the child. Because we are in the circle of care and care, we add to the protection of the child’s housing rights. So that we don't have cases like this where the baby's just out of his place, he's been evicted. Right now, we have 600,000 children at risk, 15 percent of the children are out of poverty. And now, more than ever, the state must rise up to protect such categories. We've already passed the bill, and it's already signed by the President, about increasing social workers. And I want to take this opportunity to say that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is now going to have to develop, as quickly as possible, positions typical of organs to increase these social workers so that our children can be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u89	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I want to ask the author and the committee, if I say with the amendment that was made under the transcript by Deputy Kuprienko, that's accepted, yes. Then I'm going to put it to a vote, and maybe Yuri Pavlenko will reconsider his position and support the bill. So let's go to the vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Andrew Volodymyrovich! Experience shows that without you the vote will be a failure, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Ivanchuk! Without you, the vote will be inconclusive. Please! So everyone in the room knows and realizes. Please, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code to ensure that the child's housing rights are respected, 5101, with an amendment that was made by the People's Deputy Kuprienko on the basis and overall (taking into account the Committee's proposals). If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:49:02]] For 231 The law is passed. Congratulations, Mr. Yuri, and welcome to a nice initiative. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, that's what I said under the transcript. Next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of free nutrition for internally displaced children (3459 and 3459-1). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please. [[11:49:43]] For 184 Decision taken. And I invite you to the Royal Natalia Yuriovna report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, it has been almost three years since our country has faced a major social challenge. A large number of people have become displaced people who need social protection and the support of the state. To date, only 1 million 583,000 displaced persons, including 240,000 children, are officially registered. Regrettably, at the most difficult point, the authorities proved unable to help and protect civil and social rights. By objectively appreciating the government’s actions during this time, it can be said that state policies in support of forced displaced persons and the protection of the rights of our citizens living in the war zone are simply a failure. Today, virtually all forced displaced people simply survive in the absence of permanent housing, in the face of a wild rise in food prices, medicine, utilities, and poor care. The amount of aid in three years of indexation has never been made. So in order to address this problem and reduce the huge social injustice, we have developed and proposed a draft law for your consideration, which provides for strengthening the social protection of school and preschool children from forced displaced persons, namely, providing them with free food. I believe that this step will not only help to support children who have been forced to move, but also help to survive today’s deep social crisis for hundreds of thousands of displaced families. I support you with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Wessel’s Natalia Vasilovna is invited to the report. From the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u92	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of free nutrition for internally displaced children. The temporary loss by Ukraine of part of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions resulted in the emergence of a new social fold of internally displaced persons. For the third year in a row, citizens have been fighting for their rights to live in their homeland. Sadly, though, they and their children are often in very difficult situations, and our society is not always ready to reach out for help. One of the sinister problems is the paid diet of children. Sometimes it is very difficult for displaced people to pay for this service. The draft Law 3459 has a rather limited framework for categories for which it is proposed to introduce free nutrition for children. My alternative bill 3459-1 expands the previous bill by amending the laws of Ukraine, not only the Law on preschool education, the Law on nutrition and the Law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons, but also affects age categories such as middle and senior school age. So I propose to make changes to the general secondary education and vocational and technical education laws as well. So by adopting Bill 3459-1, we're going to essentially extend the rights of children who at the moment have the status of migrants and who need or need the greatest attention. It's worth noting that the displaced children are 199,000 people. We have no right to leave internally displaced persons without attention and material support. Even a small amount of assistance in the form of lunch at a school.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u93	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u94	may provide much support to those who truly need it. Please support my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u95	Thank you. From the committee to the floor is the deputy head of Packan Valeriy Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u96	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Both bills, which have just been reported by the authors, are alternative and have the same common goal: to strengthen social protection for internally displaced persons, to create legal conditions to ensure free nutrition for their children, who are raised and educated in educational institutions, and to provide child nutrition for newborn children. Currently, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has implemented monthly targeted assistance to displaced persons to cover housing costs, including housing and utilities. However, for most displaced persons, the measure taken is not sufficient to accommodate normal housing. Regrettably, it should also be noted that the State authorities and local self-government authorities have not been able to resolve a large number of issues regarding the provision of adequate levels and conditions for internally displaced persons in other areas of Ukraine. These bills are aimed at solving one of these problems, namely, strengthening the social protection of internally displaced families by creating legal conditions and providing free nutrition for their children, who are raised and educated in educational institutions, and providing child nutrition for newborn children. At its meeting on 13 July 2016, the Committee considered alternative bills and proposes to adopt Bill 3459-1, which is sponsored by Ms. Weselova. I would like everyone to support the People's Deputies in Bill 3459-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Colleagues, please record two in favor, two in favor. In the meantime, the next bill is also very important, and we would like to consider it for a break. So I'm traditionally calling for a more efficient and faster discussion. Tymoshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u98	Please give Leona the voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u99	Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. In fact, two of these are similar and, as the committee has rightly pointed out, alternative bills have to solve the issue of providing free child feeding to displaced families. And these two very similar essentially, absolutely alternative legal bills, unfortunately, have a completely different political component. And if I agree that Mrs. Wesselov's position on this bill is completely sincere, then the position of the authors of another bill, I think, contains a completely populist element. And it's very similar to Mr. Putin's position, which will bomb the peaceful cities of Aleppo in order for millions of refugees to then invade European countries, and use this situation to promote their Russian path and vice versa in order to divert our position and position of the former Soviet Union from European standards. Thus, the refugee situation is being used, with the displaced people, to emphasize that our Ukrainian authorities are doing nothing. Although the essence is that it is the actions of the past government of the Yanukovic regime that have led these people today to flee the territory occupied by the Russian aggressor to seek refuge in the peaceful cities of the center and the west of our country. And of course, the state has to meet them, of course, the state has to provide them and their underage children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u101	Thank you. Wolf Victor Ivanovich gives the word Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u102	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our party and faction supported and would support both the free feeding of internally displaced persons and the housing of internally displaced persons. We have made specific suggestions to the government. But in this case, let us examine together where millions of internally displaced persons originated in our country. Here some come out to this rostrum, presenting their bills, taking care of the children, pouring crocodile tears and forgetting that it was they and their shareholders who brought the war to Ukraine. It was they who created internally displaced persons. Now we don't know where to find the funds to provide free nutrition for the children of internally displaced persons, housing. Then I'll tell you where. Confiscate, take to the Fleece, the Fighters. They can't find traces in the Boy Scouts. In Ephraim, all those who have brought war on our Ukrainian land, and then come out, shed crocodile tears here on the rostrum! No! No! It's on them. Let's open a nursery for internally displaced persons in the palace of Ljewczyn. Let's confiscate, nationalize the Inter that brought the war here. And we'll provide for this confiscation of internally displaced persons. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u103	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three minutes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. It's Wessel's Natalia Vasilivna. Semenich, if possible, is as concise as possible. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u104	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! We will certainly support the legislative initiative of our colleague Mrs. Wesselova. However, we also want to talk about this issue in a much broader way. The fourth year is the war with the aggressor. The number of internally displaced, including children, is increasing. According to various figures, they are already worth nearly 200,000. However, are they internally displaced? Is that the term for reality today? After all, the movement actually took place as a result of external aggression. Regrettably, today children, families with little social security, are hostages of a weak state, a state policy. The hostages of the fact that the state has not yet called this conflict a reality, namely, that it has not recognized war or transferred all legal and financial responsibility in those areas to its own aggressor, the Russian Federation. So we will certainly support any social initiative aimed at protecting children, their parents. But it is vital that the state today respond adequately to external challenges, namely, the adoption of the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories. And if we're going to solve this problem in a systematic way, I think today, next to that law, we're going to have to report the profile minister on the issues of the temporarily occupied territories, because today all of the activities of the Ministry of Profiles, unfortunately, are called declarations. Moreover, its documents, regulations and sub-legislative acts generally do not contain the terms "external conflict", and there are all the signs of what is happening in progressive colonization and transformation of this process as an internal conflict. As a result, the Self-Help faction has registered a bill of decree (6054) on the release of Mr. Chernish from the post of minister from occupied areas. Please support Mrs. Wesselova's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u105	Thank you. And the closing statement by Yuri Pavlenko. Well, let's just lose the votes. All right, then Barna, one minute. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, it's very good that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has finally come to the consideration of issues relating to the protection of children's rights. Unfortunately, the subject of childhood has become secondary to the policy of active authority. Sadly, the authorities have completely forgotten the millions of Ukrainian citizens who have become displaced. And the previous speakers, well, have actually answered why for 3 years we have been disrespecting millions of Ukrainian citizens whose rights are primarily violated by the inactivity or non-professional work of specific officials. It is you, government officials and most of you, who have been in power for three years to decide and protect people. You haven't done anything during this time. It is good that we have also begun today to speak about the protection of the rights of children who have become victims of armed conflict and military action, which, in our view, are, in particular, children of forced displaced persons, and in accordance with the law. We have long approached this law, and the Opposition Block has repeatedly demanded that all laws relating to the protection of the rights of forced displaced persons be considered in the Supreme Council in the first order, because that's just it. These laws solve only one small problem of eating children. That's why the Opposition Block will support both the Bills of Natalia Royal and Mrs. Wesselova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u107	Please, Barna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, first of all, when we're going to talk about immigrants in general, I would like to ask the representatives of the Opole and others like him not to speak at all. Because it was because of their cooperative activities, chauvinistic, proputinian activities, that the very fact of aggression and the very fact that there were displaced persons, including children. But at the same time, I ask MPs and drafters to pay close attention to the fact that the only criterion for free feeding migrants should be their social status. So they're classified as their low-income families. Because the children of Ahmet, the Boys, the Third and the Fourth may also fall under this category. We need to make money, first of all, to provide the children of ATO participants and those categories that defend and hurt Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u109	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. Colleagues, let's get to the vote, please. There's already been a performance from the Opposition Block. There's already been a performance. And I, colleagues, ask you to come into the hall, and I would like to stress, two bills, the committee is proposing the first to reject 3,459, and the second to 3459-1. This is the position of the committee. And I'm going to put it in that sequence, the first 3459, which is recommended by the committee to reject, and then 3459-1. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to provide free nutrition for internally displaced children. I'm putting it first. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:07:32]] For-144 The decision is not taken. And the other one who recommends the committee. So the second is 3459-1 of the People's Deputy of the Wessel Natalia Vasilovna, and the committee is offering it on a base, just on the basis of offering to accept it. Please vote, please support base 3459-1. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, please vote, vote. [[12:08:09]] For 221 Four votes. I'm asking you to take your jobs. I'll put you back. I'll put it back once, colleagues. Please, I'm asking you to go back to consideration 3459-1. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, please support the return to 3459-1. Please support, we vote. [[12:08:51]] For 226 The decision is made as a basis. Oh, that's a comeback, I'm sorry. Now I'm betting. Yes, it was a return. I'll put 3459-1 on the base. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis of the Bill of the Holy Natalia Vasilovna 3459-1. Please vote. [[12:09:31]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you. The next bill is simple and unifying, will we try or not, will we not even try? No, right? So, 12.10., I continued the meeting for only 15 minutes. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:40, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the break is over, I ask everyone to return to the session room, we will continue our work. Please return to the session room. I'm asking the secretariat to make an announcement that's a good start, and we're moving forward in the daytime, so the deputies will return to the session room. Dear colleagues, according to our agenda approved today, we must now consider Bill 5045, this is a government bill. A bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of their number. And we have a message from the government that the government is asking to move this bill to another day because it should be represented by government representatives who are now taking other measures. As far as I'm aware, the profile committee does not object to the transposition of this important bill. And that is why we are moving, according to the regulations, to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Demographic Crisis in Ukraine: Causes, Consequences and Ways of Overcoming". This is Bill 6349, more faithfully, draft decree. I ask my colleagues to support the review of this decision by means of a reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure, we vote. [[12:44:15.]] For-58 Regrettably, there is no possibility to consider the draft regulation under reduced procedure, and we move on to a full procedure. Please, and I invite the rapporteur, the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Arthur Palatno. Mr. Palace. Dear colleagues, we are now awaiting the return of our reporter. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we can't wait for the head of the committee, and I invite you to speak to the Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Demographic Crisis in Ukraine: Causes, Consequences and Ways of Overcoming" (project registration number 6349), member of the Committee of John Sporish. Mr. John, under full procedure, we are considering this decree, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! We are said to be few, but we must accept this question, because we are still looking at the question of "Demographic crisis in Ukraine: causes, consequences and ways of coping." For several decades, there has been a demographic crisis in our country, declining birth rates, increasing mortality, accelerating labour migration. During the past year alone, the population of Ukraine decreased by 176 thousand. The State should think about the prospects for the future of the country. That is why the committee proposes to hold parliamentary hearings on 21 June of this year on "The demographic crisis in Ukraine: causes, consequences and ways of coping." We have to analyze the causes and consequences of this phenomenon, determine the urgent actions of the public authorities to overcome the demographic crisis. These should include birth support, investment in development and child rearing, creating new jobs, and improving health care for the population. And most of all, we have to understand that overcoming the demographic crisis is a strategic issue for our state. So please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please, Mr. John, remain in the rostrum. According to the Rules, we now have a question to our distinguished reporter. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please, Mr. Dehtyarchuk of the Peter Dust Block, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u113	Good afternoon! Mr. John, that's a question. State support for the birth of a child, for no one, is a secret, which for many disadvantaged families in general, this state support has become one source of existence, and it does not solve the demographic problem in Ukraine. What is the view of this committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u114	We know well that today the cost of having a child is still scarce, and we understand that. But, God willing, there's going to be more money today in the Cabinet of Ministers, there's going to be an opportunity today to raise funds for the birth of a child, and I think this question is going to be removed. Unfortunately, today this very question will also be raised during the parliamentary hearings, and we will hear statements by all those who come to the parliamentary hearings, we know perfectly well, the whole of Ukraine will come, everyone will be involved on this issue. And so, I think that the issue of the demographic crisis in Ukraine and the birth of children, we should take a big step forward. I'm not saying to catch up with these big countries, but with that. Like China, but at the same time, improve the conditions of birth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u115	Thank you. The next question, please, from Sergey Eutushka, is given to him by his colleague Mr. Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u116	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I want to ask you this question. Well, in fact, it's not just for child demographics to talk, it's to speak in the context of mortality, and the best indicator is that it's a health care measure that's being implemented. Motherhood and childhood. And, you know, perhaps, Mr. Reporter, we need all of you together here in Parliament to ask questions to power, to a government that unfortunately doesn't see those villages today. And I'll say I'm a major, representing the Plains region. There is a village in Sarnitsky, where children learn in three ways. There's a demographic situation with the birth of a child that's very cool, but they need conditions, they need school, they need preschool education. Sadly, the authorities do not see it. So I think we need to be more complex, more systematic about these things. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u117	Please, Mr. Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u118	Thank you. You really are. You gave yourself the right answer, but at the same time, we have to look both in the same direction. So I think that, once again, the decentralization of power and, God willing, the remainder of the funds in place will allow it to improve this situation. And I think you've given more. You did not have the question of how you analyzed and answered that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u119	Thank you. Next question, please, from the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we're on the side of the Peter Prashenko Block -- this is the Presidential faction -- we've heard that God will give us more money to pay for state aid. Why were you even delegated to power? To look forward to God when payments are made, the amount of such payments will be paid. And what I'm saying is that these things aren't God's, but these things are yours as coalitions, what you've done to protect and help children. For the first time in 2014, you passed a law that cancels the state aid raised for young families that have three or more children. The Opposition Block faction, I personally represent interests in the Constitutional Court, I present this constitutional application to cancel, to declare unconstitutional this shameful law. And in doing so, the entire coalition of "European Ukraine" voted in favour. What did you do? And you folded the state housing lending program, which is a very critical issue for a young family when the state compensated part of the interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, your answer, Mr. Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u122	I think there's an answer here that God will really give, as you say, God will give, and I say we take, and all of these funds will be returned, stolen, and we'll make this better. But, along with that, right, you and I are going to be in Parliament making this decision, this bill to raise wages. the birth of a child. And on June 21st at the parliamentary hearings, the question will also be raised and we will all hear it with you, and we will make some conclusions on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u123	Thank you. I'm exhausted, my fellow Members, a list of those deputies who wanted to ask a committee representative a question. Mr. Ivan, please go to your workplace. According to the Rules, we do not have a report on the draft decree. And that's why we're going to talk now. I ask you to sign up from the factions of all those who wish to enter into this discussion, please, from factions, then from the national MPs. Please, from Peter Prashenko's Block, Mr. Spiowakovsky, and he will be speaking from the rostrum. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u124	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, I want to say that it will be very difficult to deal with demographic issues in isolation from other issues. We should be talking about the constant development of human capital in Ukraine. Today we have not only a birth problem, we have a problem with uncontrolled migration, we have a problem with the destruction of educational infrastructure. That is why we need such parliamentary hearings. But I'm just asking the members of the profiling committee to address this issue systematically. Not in the system, you'll never solve it. Just asking people to give birth more is not going to be the answer. There are problems and education and education. Because, for example, when we close down a school in a small village, we need to understand that this area is being prepared for dissipation. No school, no perspective, no future. The same applies to medicine. If the FAP is closed, it means that for the villagers of this village, it's a signal that this area will be closed. So we need to understand that only in the system, because of the development of human capital, can we solve this issue. And we have to, if we're talking about a government, we have to understand that this is a question of human capital development that has to be entrusted to one of the vice-prime ministers who will answer exactly at the level whether the population of Ukraine is shrinking or is increasing. If it's shrinking, it's an assessment of the activities of that vice prime minister who has to answer these questions. Once again, I would like to invite everyone to support these hearings, but to view the system as the only Ukrainian national program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, the national MP Lazko, to whom his colleague Lensky is speaking, from the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think every Ukrainian will tell you without any parliamentary hearing about the causes of the demographic crisis in Ukraine. The main reason for this demographic crisis is that people don't believe in the future, people are afraid to have children, because there's nowhere to live, how to live, how to put a child on the feet, where to earn medicine, how to earn food, how to live; there's no necessary health care, there's no education. Here are all the causes of the crisis. And I don't see the need to hold parliamentary hearings on this. It is important not to hold parliamentary hearings and talk about anything, but to radically change the economic and socio-political situation in Ukraine, to create, first and foremost, jobs. The only way to overcome this crisis is to give people confidence tomorrow that when a young Ukrainian girl gives birth to a child, she has her own corner, so that she has a job to get a normal salary, to put that child into kindergarten, to school, to study, and then to have a job. So the question of demographics is complex. My respectable colleague, Victor Halasyuk, has already demonstrated the predictions of the United Nations today. 30 million Ukrainians will remain on our blessed land if we do not radically change that policy that leads to a breakthrough. The Radical Party proposes a radical change in economic policy, employment and wages for Ukrainians in their home country. Today, I am asked how we feel about it. Toothless is a supernova, it's great. But Ukrainians need a job and a salary to make use of the car so that they can get something to go and get some rest. And if people have nothing to live for, they don't care. The biggest concern for Ukrainians today is low wages, low pensions. You want to overcome the demographic crisis, give the pensioners a normal pension. We want to overcome the demographic crisis, give young people a place to live. You want to overcome the demographic crisis, support the national producer instead of selling land and raising retirement age. So the answer to the question of how to deal with the economic crisis is simple: conduct economic nationalism policies, create jobs for Ukrainians, raise wages, pensions and all the other incomes for Ukrainians. To pursue the development policy of Ukraine, not to turn Ukraine into a raw colony where any normal person just doesn't want to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u127	Thank you for the talk. Please, Yuri Pavlenko of the Opposition Block. Mr. Yuri, we'd like to invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, it's very good that we've drawn attention to the demographic policy of Ukraine, because demographic policy is one of the strategic strategies for us to understand how the country and the state will develop. What Is Demographic Policy? It's primarily the birth rate, it's the life expectancy of every Ukrainian. And this is regulation of migration flows, that is, how many Ukrainians have left, and how many citizens of another state have come to our territory. This is a complex of very serious measures. As a person in four governments responsible for Ukrainian demographic policy, I can say that in 2006, a strategy of demographic policy was approved by 2015, which had a huge number of systemic measures, including the support of the traditional Ukrainian family. What did this give us? This has resulted in an increase in the number of babies born from 2005 to 2013. Not so dynamic, but the length of life of the Ukrainian has also increased. The number of families with three or more children has increased. In 2013, we had a unique situation where for the first time in years of independence, the real number of children grew. The number of children has increased by 18,000. And that was a serious signal before the country started coming out of the demographic pit. There was also a very responsible policy to support and preserve parental potential. And the question was, How did help in the birth of a child who was constantly growing? She had a very positive effect. Because in 2005, if we had 18,000 per year of parental deprivation, in 2013, this figure was reduced to nearly 2.5 times, to 6,000 per year. And it was a very serious achievement and actually a victory of the state. Unfortunately, in the last three years, the absence of systemic policy, the absence of a responsible person in the government for demographic policy has led to irresponsible, often unsuspecting, and unprofessional decisions that have once again brought the country into a serious demographic pit. The birth rate has fallen, and the life expectancy of Ukrainians is decreasing. There's a lot going on across the country. No systemic action.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u129	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u130	None of the governments are offering. And it's not just war. The non-professionality of power, here's the problem of the demographic crisis in Ukraine today. That is why we will support the holding of parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u131	Thank you. I invite the "will of the people" of the distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin to speak now, please. Colleagues, there are other factions, please identify who hasn't signed up and wants to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! It would be very good if young politicians who say the right things simply solved the demographic problem. And as a personal example, they showed how to have children. What's more, I think, young politicians, especially those who are present in the session room, are more opportunities for order than the average Ukrainian citizen. And for that reason, I have to say that with the mouth of politicians, with the mouth of power, people always eat eggs. I didn't accept or accept the moaning that sounded. We were yesterday, we were doing everything right. Today, those who have come to power do bad things. Yeah, they're doing the wrong thing, the more people who came to power, who, in the previous government, were standing in other people's ranks, in the third row, backing them up like that. But the demographic problem is not a topic of one day, and that's obviously what we need to understand. It's a simple solution. To create favourable conditions for more children and people to live longer, this is the main solution to the demographic problem. Now let's see what's happening today. They tried to reform everything that could be reformed without rising from comfortable chairs and not realizing that when they went to the killing area today, the villages died, those who stayed asleep, and those who did not drink died of loneliness because of different circumstances. It turns out that loneliness is also a disease. Let us look at parents and families who do not support their children under different circumstances. Where are the children? I'm in boarding school. What are they offering now? Let's do, like in Europe, eliminate boarding schools, turn everyone over to the family and have the kids go to regular schools. Novograd Volinsky, boarding school, over 150 children, 100 percent have parents. Most of these parents are not interested in these children under different circumstances. The girls did a complicated surgery at the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynecology and for rehabilitation she didn't go home, she came to this boarding school because there were kids fed and cared for. But I understand that a bill will be put to the Supreme Council and a member of the House who calls himself a coalition, and those who, if you'll excuse me for the rude word that keeps waving at them when they have to make a critical decision and they vote in favour of that decision, and in fact the matter is eliminated by these boarding schools. But we have to go first to those who make these laws to see those boarding schools. There the movers work for a penny, there's a working method like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u133	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u134	Well, as always, when you have to say something, you have to finish. So to my profound conviction, we don't need parliamentary hearings where we're going to be holding MPs about the same thing, but we just need to review all the politics and, at the very least, return the guarantees that were there. That's the coalition's responsibility. What you've done is a crime. I think it's going to be time and they're going to ask the question of how they're chasing those who were in power yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u135	Thank you. And thank you for the clarification on the correctness of the Ukrainian language. In fact, we need to finish, not finish. So now, after the factions' discussions, I'm asking everyone who wants to sign up for a discussion. Please. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are not finished. Please, Mr. Melniczuk, a word from your group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u136	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. In fact, the demographic problem is in our country and especially in those people, they tell me that c., who take bad things into their mouth and then they do these things to themselves. That's a word for it. But I want to say something else, about what Mr. Litwin started talking about. Because when we're sitting in the office, sitting in the Parliamentary Halls, we don't have to decide anything, we have to go to places and see with our own eyes what's going on, what's going on in the same facilities where these kids are. We need to go out and see how the families who rob at the expense of those who tip me off here, who rob the state budget, and then the children do not eat, who rob their families, who lie from the rostrum, and then the Ukrainian people suffer. They lack the budget that says that we have raised 3,200 wages and that small and medium-sized businesses are being destroyed, and there are so many such problems. And the last governments, the present one, the previous one, and so on, at least, the five governments that were, have brought our Ukrainian people to poverty and our Ukrainian nation through the apherists who have come to power. And I have a bunch of apherists sitting next to me telling me about the faction that I was in. The blood of the Ukrainian people, the blood of the patriots, must also be banned and judged for robbing the Ukrainian people through the state budget, through the budget of the warring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Yuri Miroshnichenko gives the word to his colleague, Mr Papiev. Mr. Michael, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, today, Wednesday, it would seem, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's always an agenda on Wednesday in such a way that there's ratification and then there's no important bill to put into the agenda, because there are actually no votes in the room. But I am grateful to every Ukrainian national deputy who is present today and actively participates in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First of all, I want to remind you that today it would seem that this is not a very important law that we passed, but it is overweight, and I'm bringing you back to the first issue of the agenda when we made changes to the European Social Charter (reviewed). Today, in fact, these bills, which have been voted on and supported, are the most socially significant day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine throughout the term of office of the Supreme Council. And that's what I'm saying without exaggeration. Because today we have solved the problem and the children of temporarily displaced persons, in part not entirely, because we still have a huge debt to those persons who have fallen, due to objective circumstances, into difficult living conditions and who are in need of state aid today. Today, too, we have resolved many other matters. And that's the question of demographics, it's a question of number one of Ukraine. And I would very much ask all the Ukrainian people's deputies to put these parliamentary hearings ahead of the consideration of the pension reform bill that the government is planning to submit to the Supreme Council. We can't make the right decision if we have distorted input conditions. Now the government is informing us today that the Ukrainians are 42 million 300,000 citizens, this is the population available, and this is on the State Statistics Service website, and this is the first mistake. Today, real experts say there are between 34 million and 36 million Ukrainians. If we had a ratio of 1.4 workers before, we now have 10 workers working for 12 pensioners. We will not be able to adopt the right Pension Reform Act if we do not have the correct data at the entrance. I can remind you of a few more figures that are so vivid that we can confirm how challenging this problem is. We have more than five-year-old girls in Ukraine today, 40 percent of the boys born do not live to be retired. And in order for us to make the right decisions, we don't have to say here what kind of authority she did, the predecessors and everything, we need to make the right decision about what real conditions there are today, and make the right decision with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u139	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u140	So that we can stimulate birth and bring back more than 7 million migrant workers, who are now outside Ukraine at a working age of reproduction, and so that Ukraine and our children have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party, National Deputy Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor, but now you're an MP, not a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u142	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Last year, my distinguished colleague and I were at the annual meeting of the Roman Club in Berlin at the Radical Party. It is one of the world’s most influential organizations that unites intellectuals, scientists, and industrialists, who have a great influence on national politics throughout the world. And we had a very interesting conversation there in the towers that I want to share with you because it is strategically important to our country. There were official speeches, including the Federal Ministers of Germany, and then we had a frank conversation with those who had been defining politics for many years, including Germany, including Ukraine, and other countries. And we asked, and why is Marshall's plan for Africa so actively discussed, and why isn't Marshall's plan for Ukraine discussed, because we are a strategic partner for Europe, for Germany, in particular. And we are frankly told that Marshall's plan for Africa is being considered because if it's not implemented, hundreds of millions of refugees from Africa will flee to Europe and, above all, Germany. And with regard to Ukraine, there is no such threat to Europe. Because Europe is desirable to those highly qualified, educated, creative, talented Ukrainians who come to Europe as law - abiding citizens, they are very capable of creating GDP in a large united Europe, which will be the economic power of European societies. Here's one of the answers to the question about demographic policy, which is our national interests and the national interests of our partner countries, friends, neighbors, they're anyway they're different. Because every country wants its citizens to be prosperous, to be intellectual, to become more. That's why we have to pursue this policy, which is convenient for Ukraine, to take into account the interests of our foreign partners, but not to go into whatever wishes we're told, whether it's the International Monetary Fund or any other organization. Because if you look at 26 years with the population of our country, we've lost 9 million Ukrainians and we've lost a third of our economy in real measure. That's why we need to fix this, and this is our mission with you as the Ukrainian Parliament to put these issues at the head of the corner and solve them. And the Radical Party faction has proposed an anti-crisis economic development plan that will allow for a radical solution to the demographic program based on a qualitatively new economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u143	Thank you. We are under discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please, Mr. Musai, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalska, Red City, National Control political party. By fully supporting the idea of holding parliamentary hearings, because we are living in a parliamentary-presidential republic, and it is in Parliament that state policy should be formed. So, to my conviction, parliamentary hearings, and especially their resolution after parliamentary hearings, should be a guide not only for the coalition, but for the government, how to pursue state policy to overcome the demographic crisis that Ukraine is in today. I think there's no doubt that the demographic crisis just increases every year. With regard to the data provided by the Ukrainian government on the number of people in Ukraine. I would also like to pay attention to a committee of profile, which, I sincerely believe, will be supported by those parliamentary hearings, and this committee would actually suggest that a census of the population of Ukraine be conducted in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution. Today’s authorities are chronically ignoring the requirement of Ukrainian legislation to finally hold a census of the Ukrainian population and to tell us how many Ukrainians really live. This information is not available. Some give an example of 42 million, others 35 million, and to this day, how many Ukrainians are there. Then we're going to have a number of indicators that we can push away from in order to measure the scale of the demographic crisis. Of course, I fully agree with Mr. Spivakovsky's suggestions, my colleague, and Mr. Litvina, colleagues who have proposed a systematic and comprehensive approach to the issue of the demographic crisis. And here must be the unification of other committees that directly touch on demographics. And this is our Health Committee, because everyone knows that health also depends directly on the quality of health care and the system in which our medicine is located. Those initiatives that we see today from the government, and especially tomorrow you will see, will be put to the voting room in a non-regulatory manner by four bills of reform from Uljana Suprun and the current government, which will not only deepen the demographic crisis, but will destroy the population of Ukraine completely. And I think it is. Please note that tomorrow too. This will be a prelude to parliamentary hearings, perhaps a parliamentary position about the failure of the government to support the destruction of Ukrainian medicine, the remnants of Ukrainian medicine. So I would finally urge everyone today to vote and support such hearings, because then we from different committees will be able to form state policies and force the government to pursue the policies adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nechayev. He conveys the word to Doubenko. I can see it! Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u146	Dear fellow citizens! A review of the draft Decision on the demographic crisis of Ukraine, the causes, consequences and ways of overcoming it for me is hypocrisy. Why is this hypocrisy? Because the authorities, which actually caused a devastating, destructive strike on guarantees that would increase the birth of children in the country, are now talking about the need to hold parliamentary hearings, I find it a mockery of Ukrainian citizens. I'm going to bring statistics: in 2014, state aid was canceled at the birth of a child, raised by three or more children -- that's the first. It discourages birth, it leads to a demographic crisis. The second step is the cancellation at the state level of the State Programme for Mortgage Loan Compensation for Young Families, the more children, the more the percentage of the compensation. I do not think that these measures have been sufficient to remedy this terrible situation of violence. But these were steps forward that were canceled, and now we're going to talk about overcoming this demographic crisis. It is very sad and very painful to hear from some representatives, from the national MPs, when they say: Let's get to the place, see how people live, let's hope for God when we get our money. I think we're here to develop comprehensive safeguards measures to increase the birth rate of a child. For example, we have to return government guarantees, they have a differentiated size: the more children in the family, the more government guarantees. We have to pay back the state aid for mortgage lending. We should also consider perhaps reducing the tax burden on those parents who have more than three, four, five children there, such as introducing reduced VAT rates, taxation on the income of individuals. The demographic crisis is the result, the cause of the demographic crisis, the economic situation in the country. No country that has a very difficult economic situation, whose economy does not actually work, will have any kind of development or demographic spring. Because people don't have incentives. Why the economic situation? And the economic situation is that not only do not even this room meet the requirements of the Rules or other laws, but in fact people are governed by other principles than the law, not the law. That's why investors don't come, but some slogans: we should, our mission is for investors to come -- well, it's just a slogan, and all we need is specific bills and specific respect for human rights and legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u147	Thank you. We have the last speaker among the deputies who want to participate in the discussion. And, as I understand it, the national deputy Sverk is giving the floor to this closing statement to his colleague, Mr. Barney, who was a lecturer for the term. Please, Mr. Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u148	Praise Jesus Christ! The problem of Ukrainian demographics as a human potential is exclusively social in nature, which comes from an improper economic situation. I've got the heathland, the agrarian region. A region that was once rich enough, people had jobs, and there were farms. As a result, people had jobs, they had wages, they had rural infrastructure, and people had the same livestock in each of their homes. In addition, the collapse of the farms led to the loss of jobs. Farms were torn apart, techniques were taken apart, rationed pies were distributed. People are left out of processing, blindly signing contracts with agroholdings, which, by manipulating people by buying them for a bag of sugar, take away their pies. And now some agrohholdings that own more than a hundred thousand hectares are advertising in newspapers that they pay the most taxes. But we don’t need such taxes when people don’t have jobs! And that's why I think that the trend in the degradation of the farms that led to their destruction in the 1990s was a planned action to destroy the Ukrainian village and destroy Ukraine as a whole. Who was in power then? Let's draw conclusions. What do we all need to do now? We need to make people feel needed. We need to make a person feel needed for society and Ukraine by getting up in the morning or in the village or in the city. She has to go to work. There is a need to limit the impact of large agroholdings on farming in our area, to limit the amount of land. And most importantly, to oblige them to create more jobs, to oblige them to develop the infrastructure of the locations where they rent the land. We need to develop animal farming, labour-intensive farming, and basic processing. To allow Ukraine to enter the world market, not as a raw commodity, not as a country that exports only agricultural raw materials, but as a raw material, ready-made product, where the extra cost remains with us, and the costs remain with our workers. So we must now reject the populist calls and make the citizen feel the need. He'll be sure of the future, and he'll be sure of the future, he will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-17-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we've finished, we've completed a thorough discussion of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order, and now I'm putting it to a vote. Please all return to your jobs, and please support the proposal of a parliamentary committee to hold parliamentary hearings on "Demographics Crisis in Ukraine: Causes, Consequences and Ways of Overcoming", this is draft Decree No. 6349. And this hearing is proposed by the committee on June 21, 2017. Please vote. [[13:28:26]] For a hundred and 156 votes. Dear colleagues, as our esteemed speaker says, may I quote, "potential is not available for this minute," but this question concerns the order of the day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we can go back to it. That concludes the day’s schedule for today. But let me have two brief announcements. First. Today at 16 p.m. in Strasbourg in the European Parliament will be signed already (this is formal but last and extremely important) Decision to grant Ukraine a visa-free regime with the participation of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian delegation. In fact, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the present composition of the Ukrainian Parliament for the great and important work that every MP present here has done for the Ukrainian visa-free regime in June of this year. And second, an important announcement. As you all know, on the third Thursday of May, Ukraine celebrates Hangover Day. Let's follow this tradition tomorrow. With Ukraine in our hearts, with Ukrainian culture and language, but with embroidery, we will join this tradition. Anyone with no embroidery has a evening to support Ukrainian production. Oleg Berezuk suggests that someone could have an embroidery for the evening. And actually, I want everyone to have productive work on the committees right now. And by tomorrow, we're closing our session today. Thank you, good-bye.
