ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. Please come into the hall, prepare for the registration for the evening session. Both the Supreme Council Secretariat and the factions' heads, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please enter the hall, which is in the towers. Please come into the hall. Please prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we register? Is everyone in the hall yet? Please take up jobs. Please prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. And please register. Please register, colleagues. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:07:21]] 375 deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! Before we move to the next issue of the agenda, I would like to inform you that a draft decision on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading of the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine (4493, 4493-P1 and 4493-P2) has been reached in the Supreme Council. According to the Rules, when the decree is given by the committee, it must be immediately brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you, when we passed the Power Market Act of Ukraine, a number of deputies have passed draft decrees repealing the decision of the Supreme Council. And so these draft decrees made it impossible to sign this law, which, you know, was one of the requirements of the European Union and which has been waiting for a very long time in the decision-making room. In order to be able to sign the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act, we have these decisions to consider. And I, my fellow Members, ask that we proceed with their consideration by means of a reduced procedure. We have some very important laws that deal with the issues of public service in local governments. And I very much ask all the national MPs who are in the room to support the consideration of these regulations by means of a reduced procedure. Is there an understanding of the hall? There's an understanding, isn't there? Let's focus and take up jobs. Colleagues, there's going to be a vote now, and I'm asking everyone to take over the city and get ready for the vote. Heads of factions, I'm asking you to mobilize a special faction warehouse. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Decisions repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine (4493, 4493-P1 and 4493-P2) be considered in the summary procedure. Please support and please vote, colleagues. My colleagues, I'm sorry, they told me there's no need to vote, they're only looking at a reduced procedure. Thank you for the correction. Thank you for your advice. So let's say we go over the bill. And I invite you to report to the first owner Sergey Volodymyrovich, then Ryabchin. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u2	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich, for putting it on immediately when there are virtually no people in the hall, despite the fact that 375 cards have been registered. I want to point out that we all remember the adoption of this Power Market Act. I want to talk about two elements of this law: first, the substance and the second, the procedure in which it was adopted. In fact, from the point of view of the essential component, a completely corrupt law that completely destroys the existing electricity market, which allows the distribution of cheap electricity and direct it for use in enterprises, and it also allows more expensive electricity from the TEC to give to Ukrainian citizens, raising absolutely mad tariffs. So in our view, in the view of the "Paternity" faction, which was the only faction that did not vote in favour of this law, by the way. In our view, this law completely restores all those schemes, all those technologies that are applied in the gas tariff market. Then it's no different than those schemes that are applied to the gas tariff market, and then it's going to have the same effect, an absolute baseless increase in electricity tariffs for Ukrainian citizens. This is about the content, the basic content of this law. By the way, this law also introduces identical subscribers' salaries to join the power grids, where there were scandals, similar scandals were paid for joining the gas networks. It's about form. As far as the matter is During the consideration of this bill in a re-second reading of the rights of our colleague Alexia Rybchin, at least his rights were brutally violated, apparently violated, he, as the author of a series of amendments, demanded that the chairman put those amendments to the vote, allowing him to speak out of these amendments. But he was deprived of this possibility, which clearly did not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u4	Thank you. Mr. Alexei Rybchin repeatedly made such statements both from the place and he approached the chairman’s rostrum, requiring compliance with the Rules during the consideration of the bill. The rules have not been complied with, so we demand now. We ask now, we turn to the hall, to whom no matter the fate of the citizens to support these decrees and to declare illegal voting under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u5	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Rybczyn, Alexei Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u6	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. I agree with the previous speaker, and I want to separate the political position of the Fatherland faction from the personal position of the PEC committee member, whose rights have been brutally violated by the chairman at the meeting, who has deprived me of the opportunity to make my position known. Mr. Speaker, you pointed out that you had to consult the factions and then you decided to interrupt the second read-out procedure and go straight to the vote. When I saw this, based on the 29th article of the Rules, during the session, I made a comment to you about the violations that had been committed. Plus, I've approached you twice, and I've been telling you that I want to report my charges. You left that remark out of the question. There's also a call in the transcript about an additional table where my colleagues and others were editing. Speaking of the professional quality of my rights, 40 percent of the more than 100 rights were considered by the committee, which means that me and my team worked very hard on this bill. And those amendments that I haven't been able to report, for example, are about saving for a transitional period of regulated tariffing for electricity. For people, I'm just going to say, because people don't know what the Rules are, what regulation is. So, because the chairman didn't give me the opportunity to report this amendment, you're going to have an increase in the price of trolleybuses and trams, because this price is not going to be regulated. I mean, because Mr. Speaker didn't let me personally present this bill to my esteemed colleagues, who came in and supported it, my colleague Taras Pasteuch approached and supported it, even Deputy Prime Minister Zubko supported it, and I didn't get the chance to report it. In addition, my colleague, National Deputy Podlisecki, in an interview, noted that I was the only one in Self-Help who voted in favour of the electricity market bill, and the rest voted against it because the procedure for consideration and voting was largely violated. That is, you can see even the political consequences of your actions and inactivity. The question was to wait 20 minutes, allow the deputies who worked to make their position known, then put it to a vote, and we wouldn't spend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u7	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u8	This bill would be signed, and we could continue to improve or abolish it. Mr. Chairman, you can't see the buttoning, you're violating the agreement that factions don't hang any banners. You're not the speaker of the three factions, and you can't do things that don't match the Rules, you're the first among the equal. And the procedure for adopting the electricity market bill was breached at the bottom of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. So please support my decision to cancel and read the second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u9	Thank you. Since I have been asked to do so, I would like to inform you that the decision to proceed to the vote has been taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the procedure provided for in the Rules on a one-time deviation from the procedure. It's for understanding. And the next thing I want to tell you is that every time I have information about buttoning, I put this decision to a vote when I have that information. And one more thing, I'll tell the young deputies: don't tell me about the bottom of Parliament. I was here for many years both during the Harkow Agreements, and during the adoption of many laws, when our colleagues here were crippled, defending their rights, and I was among them. So don't tell me about the bottom of Parliament. How Parliament works today is a European practice when all decisions are made in the hall, when there is no decommissioning of deputies, and when there is no influence: neither physical nor moral – on Parliament. You've obviously forgotten our recent history and don't talk about the bottom of Parliament. Thank you. I invite you to the presentation, the co-reports of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. The third co-author, Michaelo Golko, appeared in the hall, and I invite him to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u10	Mikhailo Golovko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th District, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question about the Supreme Council's draft decision to repeal the Supreme Council's decision of 13 April 2017 on the law adopted in the second reading: Power Market Act in Ukraine (number 4493). I want to remind you of this so-called famous law, which now introduces the notion of a trade intermediary institution, which will be able to directly contract with electricity producers, who will, in principle, supply electricity now for the population at a higher cost. Of course, cheap electricity, nuclear power will go to the authorities, will go to their businesses, will export abroad, and Ukraine will pay for the electricity that is produced at the thermal power plants. Of course, such a norm will simply destroy us as a state and a competitor in European markets and, of course, lead to the impoverishment of ordinary Ukrainians once more. That is why we did not vote in favour of this bill, but I would like to stress the very procedure for adopting this bill: many rules have been violated as well as the Rules, and the Constitution of Ukraine, including 119 articles of the Rules. In view of the fact that 78 amendments to the vote have not been discussed, this is a direct violation of the rules of the Rules and it is believed that the bill has been adopted with violations. This bill, which was voted jointly and by a coalition so-called, and the People's Front, BPT, including the Opobloku representatives and other parties, has led to the common conspiracy of the oligarchs, the conspiracy of the Ukrainian people. That's why I'm asking you to lay down this law. The decision to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u11	Thank you. Phrase: Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u12	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on 15 May 2017, the Committee reviewed three draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the second reading and the draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine. This is the registration number 4493-P for the authorship of the national MPs Sobolev, Vlasenka, 4493-P1 for the authorship of the national deputy Rybchin and 4493-P2 for the authorship of the national deputies Levchenk and Golovk. The procedure for revoking decisions of the Supreme Council is defined by the provision of 48 articles of the Rules and, in particular, provides for the referral of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for a violation of the Rules and, in the event that the chairpersons of the relevant measures are not used in a two-day period, to submit a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council with the simultaneous introduction of the relevant draft decision. With regard to draft regulation 4493, the committee noted that, according to the transcript of the plenary session, when considering proposals and amendments to the draft law at the plenary meeting, the National MP Soboljev repeatedly called on the chairman to point out violations of the motions and rights procedure. The national deputies of Ukraine, Sobolev and Vlasenko, also made a written statement to the Supreme Council head, as provided for in part five of the 48th article of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, and at the same time made an appropriate draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council to adopt the second reading and the entire draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine. The committee's decision is in order. As far as Decree 4493-P1 is concerned, it is the authorship of the People's Deputy Rybchin. The National MP Ryabchin attended the meeting of the Committee on May 15th, and during its consideration of the draft decree he announced that he had personally approached the chairman of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Paris, Andriy Volodymyrovich, on the violation of his rights as a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u13	Let's finish, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u14	At the time of the consideration of Bill 4493, a review was made. According to the national deputy Rybkin, it made about one hundred proposals and amendments to the bill, particularly regarding electric transport, which entered an additional comparative table. However, the chairman, at the request of three MPs, put to the vote the prescribed draft law in a second reading without considering the proposals and amendments of the national deputy Rybkin. In addition, the national deputy Ryabchin made a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council and at the same time filed a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the second reading and the draft Law on the Electricity Market. The committee’s conclusion was also made and the National Deputies were informed. With regard to the draft Decree number 4493-P2 under the authority of the National Deputies of Lehchenk and Golovk. According to the transcript of the April 13 plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u16	Levchenko, Golovko, Illenko, Marchenko, the chairman of the plenary session and the application for a violation of the Rules were not addressed. However, a written application was made and a draft decision was made at the same time that was considered by the committee. In this regard, you have been given an appropriate conclusion. We ask that all three draft decrees be determined by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u17	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Abdulin Alexander passes the word to Sergey Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u18	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I'm going back to the content of this bill. In fact, under the fine terms of what Europe seems to require of us is the electricity market, which is that everyone is going to have a level playing field in the acquisition of electricity, this law is completely different. This law certainly has no bearing on the European electricity market. The European electricity market was launched in Ukraine in 2000 by Deputy Prime Minister for Fuel and Energy Complex Yulia Timoshenko. And he has worked effectively in Ukraine to this day. And there's no reason to change this market. Instead, we are offered a totally corrupt, completely manual, completely selective mechanism, when cheap electricity produced at nuclear power stations and hydroelectric power plants will be passed on to production facilities, and expensive electricity produced for heat. At TEC, it will be handed over to Ukrainian citizens. Once again, the only consequence of voting for this law will be the introduction into the electricity market of mechanisms similar to those already operating in the gas market. And that's going to result in one thing, namely, raising tariffs is totally unfounded, robbing, corruption of electricity tariffs just as now the gas tariffs are rising, without any restrictions, without any justification, just because someone can buy cheap electricity and direct it to their businesses. So once again, I urge this room to support any of the decisions that I or my colleagues have proposed and to accept the vote on the electricity market bill. canceling this vote is not the only thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u19	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u20	Not only by the content of this law, but by the fact that there have been numerous violations, which were essentially confirmed by the first deputy head of the Regulatory Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u21	Romanov’s Anna Anatolovna is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u22	I give the word to Levko Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I would like to draw attention to the law itself, since today is mostly about it, not about the voting procedure. As far as the law is concerned. I find it totally unacceptable for the people's deputies to tell absolute lies that are not true and to abuse regulations to achieve wrong goals and to break the right laws. This is totally shameful and unfair. Because saying that we have a market that is the best in Europe today means that this faction supports all the activities that the Wolf is doing, because according to today's market model, it can itself determine the price for every electricity producer, for every electricity customer, and determine what it will consider to be appropriate. What he's going to do, that's another question. So our task is to put in place this system of work and the functioning of the electricity market, where there's not a single person: today the wolf, tomorrow the rabbit, the next day someone else, will determine, and when the market will set up. Now for the market. We'll see, the usual practice that happened in recent months, you know, that Ukraine started exporting electricity to Moldova. I'm not going to discuss whether it's good or bad, but I'm going to say one thing: Moldova's exports are made by Rinat Ahmedova's CHILD, and the cost of electricity sold by DTEK to Moldova, 52 Eurocenters. The cost of electricity sold in Ukraine in a non-competitive market is more than 70 euros. That's the answer for those patriots who say today's model is better. No, a model when there's a market and when.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u24	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u25	Only a competitive market can provide the most correct pricing and lower price formation for every citizen and every consumer. So I'm asking you not to submit to these kinds of manipulative statements and not to support the repeal of the law, but to sign and implement a new market model that will work for consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u26	Thank you! From the Radical Party, Andry Lozový. Lonely Andrew, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u27	With all responsibility, I convey the word to the leader of the Radical Party, whose vote awaits millions of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm surprised to hear from my esteemed colleagues from the Fatherland faction, who on a full series from this parliamentary rostrum say that today's energy market, we have nothing to change. And what they did was wrong. Dear, venerable, deep - seated colleagues! Every Ukrainian who receives monthly tariffs, dragon tariffs, can feel on their own that today, in the energy market, there is total corruption, manual control of this market when the oligarchs earn it. And so to protect the oligarchs, to protect this corruption in the market, to protect the NCREKP, which sets dragon tariffs, I think it's irresponsible. That's why I'm turning to my distinguished colleagues from the Fatherland respectable faction to stop protecting the current composition of the NCREKP and allowing the oligarchs to charge their pockets manually at the expense of the Ukrainians. I also turn to the government. We've managed a month ago, millions of people have succeeded in canceling the decision of the NCREKP to set up a subscription for gas counters. When Ukrainians were to pay 28 billion dollars a year in the pockets of Firthash, Ljovcín, and Boyka, who still use gas - free public networks and public networks. After all, the vast majority of gas pipelines in the village were built for their money. We were in a meeting of the government of Groysman. The government promised to make a decision and return state-owned gas distribution networks. It's not done yet! Still the oligarches of Firtash, Ljovczyn, Boyko are stealing from the Ukrainians. The Radical Party faction requires the government to return state-owned gas networks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u29	From Peter Poshenko's Block, Dombrowski. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I am frankly surprised by the position of one political faction, because we voted in this room on the Association Agreement with the European Union. And if anyone is not lazy, take an association agreement in a part of the energy policy, where it is clearly black and white that Ukraine commits itself to harmonising legislation, including in the energy sphere, where we make a commitment as members of the European Energy Society to create market instruments that are in force today in the European Union. Thesis two. The electricity market bill has been developed jointly with our European partners and meets all the standards of the Third Energy Package of the European Union. I'm stressing everybody. We have all the information we need and confirmation that the vote in the Supreme Council was supported by the European Commission, the European Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u31	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u32	So I think political insinuations should be thrown aside. As far as the year 2000 is concerned. This model was progressive in 2000. It's been 17 years now, the European Union has adopted the First Energy Package, the Second, the Third, the Fourth Energy Package. We have no right to live in the 2000 system, the world has changed, and Ukraine needs to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u33	Thank you. One minute, Sergey Vlasenko, and we're going to vote, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u34	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In order of repetition, I want to point out that you don't have to confuse two things: you don't have to confuse the effective normal mechanisms that work in normal countries, in particular, in Ukraine a British energy model is perfectly implemented; and you don't have to confuse the Ukrainian corruption that ate through all of these mechanisms. And of course, those corrupt mechanisms that are today, they were brought into this market artificially and they are created only because they are created by the active authority of today. But this certainly has nothing to do with the model itself. The British energy model is one of the most effective. The British use it and they're fine because they don't have Ukrainian corruption because they don't have the Wolf at the head of the NCRECR because they make decisions legally, not arbitrary, because decisions are made there, not by the Prime Minister's office or the Buckingham Palace, but by the normal, well-founded people. That's why. And this is the law that is now being proposed for adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u35	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u36	And the law that is now being proposed for adoption introduces mechanisms that stimulate corruption and do not create market mechanisms. Let's wait for the gas market law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u37	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm going to make all three decisions and the hall will be defined. I would like to remind you that those who uphold the law do not vote in favour of any. Those who want to repeal the law, well, vote in favour of any of those decrees to understand the logic of voting. So I'm voting on draft regulation 4493-P. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[16:37:08]] For-53 53. The decree is rejected. But the potential is, the potential is. Next 4493-P1. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[16:37:38]] For-43 The decision is not made. Decree 4493-P1 has been rejected. And the last one is 4493-P2. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[16:38:04]] For-42 The decision is not made. Decree 4493-P2 has been rejected. So all the regulations are rejected and it opens the way for signing the Law on the Electricity Market in Ukraine, which is what I'm going to do as soon as the apparatus gives me the bill. Colleagues, the next draft of the Resolution on 24 May 2017 on "The State of Implementation of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" (6126). According to the law, we should have these hearings by June, and that is why it is very important for us, without delay, to make this decision, and I ask you to support the consideration of this decision by the summary procedure, my colleague. Please vote, please support, vote, please support your colleagues, please support your consideration of the reduced procedure. [[16:39:04]] For-125 Guys, I'll put it back on. Let me remind you, the next question is very important, and I would like us to approach it as we mobilized. Colleagues, please mobilize, please support, colleagues, take your places of work, review Project Decree 6126 by a reduced procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, please support, we vote, it's just an order to assign hearings. [[16:39:51]] For-164 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Sobolev Egor Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u38	Parliament should assess and discuss the government report on how corruption is and how corruption does not emerge. We suggest we do it on May 24th, which is next Wednesday. Everyone, we really need a good conversation about what to do with the anti-corruption agency, which has not yet checked any of the officials' declarations. We need to discuss how to protect the anti-corruption office and how to create an anti-corruption court. We'll be happy if you make that decision and come to the hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u39	Please record: two for, two for. Bakumenko is from Peter Dustenk's Block. Please, Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u40	I'm asking you to give the floor to Mr. Shinkovitch to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u41	Thank you. Respectful colleagues certainly have nothing to discuss and need to support hearings, since this is an extremely relevant subject. But I'd like to take this opportunity, Mr. President, to draw our attention, we're our group, here next to colleagues, no matter who, we've made proposals, we've tabled Bill 6365, which we've proposed at the time of the anti-terrorist operation to consider the order of the day before it's complete, whether it's 18 hours or 19 hours or not. Today, there are extremely important bills, and we have gone through only one fifth of what was planned today according to the order of the day. If on Ukraine’s borders, if our troops are in favor of Ukraine 24 hours a day because the country needs protection 24 hours a day and we go through one fifth of the day and continue to rest until tomorrow. Dear colleagues! Let's have a conscience and ask everyone, please the chairman to pass this bill and support it, or attach it to that comprehensive, good bill you're introducing, we're willing to support it. Let's put order in the work of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u42	Thank you. On Thursday, this bill will be included in the agenda of the day session, I hope for maximum mobilization, I very much respect and share your position. Thank you, but this must be the decision of the hall. Please, Lucenko Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, you and I are in dire need of a frank discussion on our anti-corruption policy about our anti-corruption fight. First of all, we must acknowledge our mistakes in this fight. I am sure that the car we are celebrating these days could have appeared two years ago in our country if our parliament, if our country, in general, had demonstrated any result in the fight against corruption. Instead, this twofold delay is the price, next to the billions that we're losing from the budget, it's the price for our corruption. But our discussion had to go hand in hand with the recognition of errors in the fight against corruption. We created, the previous warehouse, today's warehouse, many anti-corruption institutions. We're modifying them now, we're developing them, but we obviously have to say that there's no result that we all want and that we want from us all international society. So first of all, it's about dealing with the mistakes of fighting corruption. The main thing that I would like to say right now is that I would like to remind you that this subject has to be revealed during the parliamentary hearings that we have in the state so far, despite the creation of many institutions, there is no body responsible for eliminating illegal corruption schemes. This body must be created or restored in the country, and this must be discussed. That's what we need with you, because you're being approached as MPs and asked to be eliminated from any corruption scheme. What will we do next? Go to court. No, that's not the way. So it must be as it is in America as it is in Europe, there must be an institution that is responsible for eliminating the illegal corruption scheme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u44	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u45	Dear Ukrainian people! The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Of course, society needs a broad debate on the fight against corruption in Ukraine. Because by creating a mass of anti-corruption bodies, by assigning them huge, huge wages that our peasants, our workers, can't even imagine in their minds. We don't see any results at all. Moreover, we see total legal ignorance by anti-corruption prosecutors on the side of the NABU. The Radical Party faction proposes to invite anticorruption prosecutors and NABU detectives to the public hearings. We're going to give them, at our own expense, we're going to buy the Criminal Procedure Code, and we're going to teach them to work solely under the law, because fighting corruption is not just words, it's not pear in the media, it's hard work, it's work under the law. And no one, ever and under no circumstances, has to rewrite the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine under separate people if they don't call themselves anti-corruption or anyone else, because then anti-corruption is the biggest corruption we have. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u46	Colleagues, discussion over. We're moving on to a decision I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies and ask the factions to invite deputies. So, colleagues, I remind you that under article 18 of the Anti-Corruption Act, every year until June 1, Parliament is obliged to hold parliamentary hearings on the state of implementation of anti-corruption policies in Ukraine. And so I ask everyone to support this draft decree so that we can fulfil our obligations to legislation, which we have adopted in the framework of an anti-corruption package of laws. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, we're going to vote. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on 24 May 2017 on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State of Implementation of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" on 24 May 2017 (No. 6126) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:48:36]] For 239. Decision taken, decision taken. We move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act supplementing the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Prohibition of the Production and Propaganda of the George Tape (number 2987). And I would like to support the consideration of it by a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me, please vote on the reduced procedure. Vote. [[16:49:23]] For-149 Colleagues, not all of them have made it. I'll do it again. And once again, I ask you to concentrate on the short-term draft of Law 2987. Please vote, each voice has a weight. Please support, we vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:49:56]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to a report by Ukrainian National Deputy Heratschenko Anton Yuriovich, who will report both as author and from the committee. And that's why I give you three minutes. Will that be enough, Anton?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u47	More than enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u48	Please, I give three minutes for both the report and the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u49	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, reverend Ukrainian people! This bill is directed and aims to counter Russian aggression in Ukraine. The thing is, the so - called George tape or the Colorado tape has long been a symbol of Russian aggression against Ukraine. Since 2005, Russian propaganda has been using the George tape to split the Ukrainian nation, to break the Ukrainian people apart. We already have a positive experience of adopting the Law on Criminal Responsibility for the Use of Nazi and Communist Symbols. The bill proposes to introduce administrative responsibility for wearing the so-called George tape during mass action, which causes, as you know, excitement in many Ukrainian patriots. Hence, this law provides for exemptions for war veterans who have prizes that hold part of the george’s tape, have exemptions for museums, and all the same exceptions are foreseen for the Nationalist Prohibition Act. National Socialist and Communist symbols. Thus, this law will counter Russian propaganda’s efforts to dissipate the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people. I propose that this law be voted on as a basis and as a whole. In order to prevent people from taking part in the fights and calling on the police, the police made up an administrative protocol, the court considered it. If there are legitimate grounds, people who will use this tape against the interests of the people of Ukraine in the interests of Russian propaganda paid fines to the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u50	Please record: two in, two in. Liniko Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u51	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I want to remind those who forgot the 14th year when the war started, our military stopped with the George tapes. It was a sign that distinguished the Ukrainian forces and forces of the enemy. I want to remind you that the George tape has nothing to do with World War II and how the symbol was invented by Russian propaganda. This law is very simple, and we can adopt it immediately as a whole. It does not apply to rewards, and those who have rewards can bear them in peace. But in order for the pro-Russian forces and the fifth column to not create their own provocations on our streets, not to use their anti-Ukrainian symbols to stir up the situation in Ukraine, we have to clean our brains, clean our heads, because in hybrid war, we are fighting not only weapons, but we are fighting propaganda and ideas. So we have to promote Ukrainian symbols, Ukrainian ideals and ideas. And what the enemy imposes on us: his symbols, his history -- and all of this is trying to push us into it, we have to ban it. Therefore, the law is very right, and I ask you all to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u52	Thank you. Berezha Yuri Mikolaiovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to congratulate you today on the anniversary of the victory of Ukrainian Cossacks, which took place on May 16, 1648 in Prince Bairaks under the Yellow Waters. This was the first time that the Ukrainian army, along with the Tatar army, had pointed to the international level that there is a common army. And now I'm talking to the big ones. The descendants of great ancestors. You know, when the circus of the name of the Soviet Union is sitting here on the left, it's talking and talking about some sacred things to them, and waving this damn George tape that was started after the destruction of the Zaporozhye Sichi, it doesn't just make me feel ashamed and sad, I want to take the machine gun and put it all down anyway! To what time will we tolerate the abuse of the Fifth Column?Oh, my God! To what extent will they slide on history and on our grandfather’s memory?Oh, my God! That's why I'm calling. First of all, we have to vote and forget, like a terrible dream, about this Soviet empire, about these clowns who are still surfing our grandfathers' memory, about these clowns who are "dancing on the bones" of our grandfathers! Shame! I call on the entire hall, especially who's in the towers right now. Please come and vote. And let's just say that this Supreme Council will close another historic injustice created by Soviet, "the sonic agitprom." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u54	Romanova Anna Antoliyevna gives the word to Semensi Roman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u55	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! The Self-Help faction will certainly support this idea, because it's obvious that the george tape has become the killing of Ukrainians in Ukraine. And we have no doubt to adopt this law. But I would like to talk to you today in the context of this bill about aggression, war much more deeply and honestly. What would the Ukrainian state's response to the invasion of the Russian world be to external aggression? Is it the lack of accountability and the police who beat veterans of the modern Ukrainian-Russian war in Dnipro on May 9, this year? Would the lack of accountability be the answer of those who fought war veterans in Poltava in the spring of this year? Tell me, is it not worthy of resistance to Russian imperialism to finally lift the license of the Inter Channel, which has been hostile for decades? Who is fueling hostility, and who is carrying the same "Russian peace" inside our country? I'm convinced that the ban on the George tape for the fourth year of the war, along with the fact that we still haven't called war, I'm sorry, it's cynicism. I think that those MPs who really want to oppose Russian imperialism and this hybrid war should immediately consider the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, the law that is called upon to restore Ukraine's sovereignty, the law that protects our soldiers, the law that protects our soldiers, the law that eventually translates all legal responsibility for aggression against the Russian Federation, the law that will indeed restore justice and recognize reality. We urge the Head of the Supreme Council to bring this bill to the attention immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u56	From the Opposition Block, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues, what do you think was the first decision, one of the first decisions of Soviet power in 1917? It's the ban on the George tape. Why? Kotlarevsky Peter, a well - known warlord, a public figure, a Ukrainian of origin, the second degree cavalryr of the Order of St. George. The battleless Elijah, a well - known public figure, a general who was rewarded by the Order of St. George in the third degree. Dozens, dozens of representatives of the Ukrainian aristocracy are rewarded by this glorious order for personal bravery. Thousands of Ukrainian peasants who served in the army were rewarded with the George Cross for their personal courage. By the way, the Order was established after the famous events of Zaporozhye Sichi, and our Cossacks went to defend the respective borders. It was with the George Cross that Crimea was joined, I say, into the modern territory of Ukraine. And with the George Cross, they were protecting Crimea and Sevastopol in the 1970s. In 1941, a Georgian tape was restored as a guard, and in the 43rd year, the Order of Slavs was given the appropriate colors as a military order. Today we give up our glory, our ancestors' glory, we give up history, and so you have no future. By making people miserable, you are immediately distracted by the fact that they have nothing to eat. Normal authority gives both bread and sight. And you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, and minutes later, Oleg Barn and Sergey Vlasenko and Melniczuk. Please, in sequence in what I called. Barna, turn on the microphone. Oh, no, he'll be from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, this bill by the faction of Peter Prashenko will be supported. It is intended to impose administrative penalties in the form of high fines for Russian world Adaptors who produce and promote this, as it were, an imperial symbol. Frankly, we had a legal issue to solve back in 2014, when the Separatists-occupied, using this symbol of World War II, used it to destroy Ukrainian cities to kill Ukrainian sons in order to make them a symbol of brotherly war. And besides, if they wanted to preserve that symbol, they would not have caught it with the blood of Ukrainian heroes. However, the events of the last week indicate that these symbols of World War II, victory festival, victory festival in World War II are used by the Kremlin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u60	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u61	Advocacy of your imperial ambitions. For a long time, George’s tape became a symbol of Russian chauvinism, the superiority of other nations to spread its imperial ambitions. And that's why we have to do everything we can to honor the true heroes in the struggle for Ukraine's independence and in the fight against fascism and isolate the "colors" as much as possible. Praise the fighters for the will of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u62	Sergei Vlasenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u63	Thank you, fellows of honor! The Fatherland faction will support this bill, absolutely, there is no problem here. I just have one question, and how are we all going to react to the fact that on May 9, this year, the Lipec factory was hung by George's tapes, that the Lipec factory was releasing and continuing to release candy with Georgia's weekly, that people are paying taxes to the aggressor country, millions of dollars from the United States, are getting dividends from there. Let's adopt this law, and we'll pass a law that we'll introduce administrative responsibility for receiving dividends from enterprises operating in the Russian Federation, and we'll introduce the sanction provided for in the Code of Administrative Violations, the confiscation of these funds into Ukraine's state budget, and the confiscation of the crime instrument. and so quickly, Peter Alexiyovitch will fulfil his obligation to sell the Lipec factory because it's confiscated into the Ukrainian State Budget. Let's talk about this, let's not just talk about the fallen heroes that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u64	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u65	Those we need to talk about, but let us say that man is at the head of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u66	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk, one minute. And the closing statement will be Andrew Illenko. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! In 2014, when we were protecting the country, our independence, we were removed kilometers, I'm not exaggerating, the kilometers of george tapes, they were rolls, and these rolls don't refer to those tapes of our grandfathers who fought, to those of our ancestors who received the prizes, in this bill they're different. But I want to talk to those who propose this bill. Why is this bill being passed just after what happened on May 9, why are those people who created the event there already on bail? Why aren't all the policemen or the police involved being punished, but the IMF being praised? No, they must all answer, including the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u68	And the closing statement is Andrew Illenko, one minute. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u69	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It's actually good that today, very good that we're considering this bill today, and I very much hope that there will be 226 deputies who will vote in favour and still more Ukrainians than the vats in the Supreme Council. But it's very bad that such drafts only come after the problem becomes huge, as it happened on May 9, when there was an attempt by a separatist rematch all over Ukraine. I want to say that two more years ago, before this bill, which we are currently considering, we, the Freedoms, have registered a system-wide bill prohibiting the propaganda of imperialist ideas, where not only administrative responsibility is foreseen, but including criminal responsibility for such actions, if, for example, they are repeated, we anticipate responsibility for those who distribute, distribute, import these georgeic tapes into Ukraine and so on. There are a lot of things, unfortunately, there are gaps in this law, but we have to vote for it, it's a test for the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u70	Colleagues, please come into the hall and I'll say two words. I'm a historian, and I can talk for a very long time about the history of the George tape, to remind you of Vlasov, who was fought by an army in Hitler's Nazi army, but we're talking about today. And I want to remind you, there's a war going on today, and the Georgia Tape has become a symbol of the Russian Federation's occupation war against Ukraine. Today, these tapes are worn by those who have waged war against Ukraine, who are shooting our soldiers daily, who are killing the peaceful inhabitants of Audiowka and other cities, from Maidan to today as a symbol of Russian aggression, and an element of destabilization in Ukraine. I hope that Parliament will unite so that we do not allow for more provocations that were, especially, last May in Dniper. Colleagues, I ask you to unite and show once again that this is the Ukrainian Parliament, which is for stability, for the development of the Ukrainian State and for the victory of Ukraine. And I'm voting on the draft law on the addition to the Code of Administrative Offences on the Prohibition of the Production and Propaganda of the George Tape (No. 2987) on the basis and in general. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote, Ukrainian patriots, vote! Please support me, 2987 as a whole. Please support, please vote, vote. [[17:08:22]] For 238. 238, yes. The law is passed. I am sure this is an important law for Ukraine. Please include the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 57, "Opposition Block" – 0, "Unification of Self-Help" – 21, Radical Party – 18, "Fatherhood" – 12, "Will of the People" – 5, "Party of Rebirth" – 2. Colleagues, next in line on the day-to-day agenda: "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." I want to remind you that we agreed on Tuesday that we're putting MPs' initiatives into the agenda of the day and government initiatives on Thursday. Everyone had the opportunity to get to know the questions that are included in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please don't break up, there'll be no discussion now, there'll be a quick vote. So I'm very much asking everyone to prepare for the vote, I'm going to call every bill and then the hall will be determined by voting. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall. And we're going to look at this block. First: Draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine on the characteristics of access for persons with special educational needs to educational services (number 6437). Just getting into the agenda of the day session so that the committee can consider, please vote, please support this committee of Spiowakovsky, please support. [[17:10:01]] For 231 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the protection of the rights of owners (users) of houses of residence (6424). Skuratovsky Sergey Ivanovich. The committee's offering. Please vote, please support. 6424, please support. We're voting just for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[17:10:42]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukraine Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2017" (for the provision of funding for local elections). I want to remind you that on the last Conciliation Board, this issue of providing funding for local elections has been raised very sharply. Everyone who is interested in this is asked to support the inclusion of the agenda. 6431, please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. We're going to mobilize and we're going to vote. It's funding local elections. [[17:11:27]] For 217 My colleagues, I'm going to sound again because there's only a few votes left. It's just the inclusion of a daily bill that envisions changes to the budget and funding of local elections. Colleagues, it's not a matter of any political party, it's a question of the responsibility of the whole state and of every MP. Let's throw away politics and put the agenda into the agenda. Colleagues, please concentrate, each voice has a weight. Please take up jobs. I am voting once again on the draft Act amending the National Budget Act (6431). Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful! [[17:12:31]] For 228 Decision taken. Next: Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Development of the Software Industry (6160) on the development of three-year plans to support the development of the software industry. This is the Committee on Information and Communications. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote 6160 – inclusion in the agenda of the session. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[17:13:19]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Next: a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes on the Improvement of the Financing Mechanism for Radioactive Waste Management. Colleagues, it's a matter of environmental policy. And I have a huge request for you, and next week there should be a block of environmental policy -- there are no political contradictions here -- and to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. So, honourable colleagues, 6435, the agenda for the day session, the Committee on Environmental Policy. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. We've always had a common understanding of environmental policy, I hope, and now we're going to demonstrate it. [[17:14:20]] For 214 Colleagues, please take up jobs! What might be the discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no! You'd better invite the deputies into the hall, call someone who's not here. Colleagues, this is a question that has general support in the room. I'm asking you to mobilize. Colleagues, I don't understand either. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm asking you to mobilize as much as possible. The question of the ecology and security of our children is the obligation of each of the deputies, not of coalitions or opposition, otherwise everything in our heads is turned upside down if it's different, if we're going to share who's going to be responsible for our children's future. We all answer, we're all in power. Let us make responsible decisions. Colleagues, I'm once again putting in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes on the Improvement of the Financing Mechanism for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes (6435), only the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, so that the committee can consider, colleagues. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Each voice has a weight, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Keep it up, fellows. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[17:16:07]] For 239. Thank you for the responsible policy. Now we have a whole block of those environmental issues, and I'll get right to the next one. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to improve the financial management mechanism for radioactive waste. It's actually on the same subject, but it's already on the budget committee, it's about financing radioactive waste management (6436). I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleagues. Please vote, and also reject any political contradictions, take jobs and vote. Colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of session 6436. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[17:17:21]] For 237 237-yes. Decision taken. Next: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2017 to increase the amount of expenditure on salaries for employees of state-owned enterprises in the space sector. This is also a question proposed by the Committee on Budget Affairs. Please vote. Please be supportive. 5693. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. We'll support the space sector. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:18:09]] For 210 201 — yes. Let me put it again, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm putting 5693 again: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 to increase the amount of expenditure on salaries for employees of state-owned enterprises in the space sector -- inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:18:59]] For 211 211. None. And, colleagues, the last. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of State guarantees for mountain and high-rise population sites (6439). This is the Committee of Master Sergei. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We're going to support mountain and high-rise settlements. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:19:39]] For 243 243. Decision taken. So we finished this block, colleagues. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. An important issue that we have discussed many times. This is the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (new edition) with proposals from the President of Ukraine (2489). Let me remind you, this is a very fundamental and important law that we passed. Sadly, though, during the discussion, he was rebalanced. The president introduced this bill with his amendments. Now I'm just going to figure out what the procedure is. We're putting a shortcut, aren't we? No, we don't. That's how he sees it. He has a special procedure to consider. Let me remind you what a special procedure looks like: the President's report -- answers to questions, the committee's report -- answers to questions and then votes. This is a special procedure for this bill. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Mrs. Irina, please proceed to the Ukrainian Law of 2489. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u71	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on February 9, 2017, the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (registration number 2489) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the following. In particular, the law proposes to determine the salaries of local self - government officials, depending on the size of the minimum wage. At the same time, it should be noted that on January 1, 2017, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (No. 1774), which provides, inter alia, that a minimum wage on that date is not applied as a calculated value for the determination of salaries and salaries for employees and other benefits. Furthermore, according to current legislation to determine the size of civil servants’ salaries, judges, prosecutors, employees of the NAC, members of the NAC is the calculated minimum wage set for employed persons on January 1st of the calendar year, not the minimum wage. In view of the above, and in view of the fact that, on defined salaries, the salaries of those in the public service should be applied only, the President of Ukraine proposes that the law that has been signed should be aligned with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law of 1774 and that the size of the official salaries of local government officials should be determined as a calculated amount to apply the subsistence minimum set for employed persons on 1 January of the calendar year. The other one. The law also proposes that its position, particularly in part of the order for Ukrainian citizens to enter the service of local self - government as a result of the competition, will not be extended to rural, rural, and city heads. In this regard, it should be noted that such an approach will not ensure that the professional competence of those claiming to take up positions is properly verified. Then, with a view to resolving the issue, the head of State proposes to extend the order of entry of Ukrainian citizens into the service of local self - government authorities as a result of the competition also for the position of rural, rural, urban head. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. This discussion is going through a special procedure. And so now you have the right to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please sign up. Please, Kuprienko National MP, your question, from the Radical Party of Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u73	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. We go to the Supreme Council website, we open Bill 2489, the President's date of registration. Attention! 30.03.2015. On the street, if I'm not mistaken, 2017. This is about the efficiency of the government and, in particular, about the implementation of reforms. Questions. Why did no one do anything for two years, having the largest faction in the Supreme Council, in order to bring order in the service of local self - government authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u74	Please, Mrs. Irina, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, if you look at the President's website, what you're about to say is these observations date back to 2015. I have a question to ask you, why did the committee that was supposed to deal with these issues take them so long? As the President's representative in the Parliament of the month-by-a-half, I've worked with the committee, we've talked about these issues, we've got additional arguments on this point, a reference to other normative acts, on other articles, I can quote them to you, on the part of the President, we've developed further proposals. I think there's a profile committee to be taken care of. Not us, not us. The President's administration and our office worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u76	Please, Mrs. Vojtsiecki, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u77	Please pass the word to your colleague Lubomir Zubad.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u78	Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u79	Lubomir Zubac, Self Help Union. Dear Mrs. Irina, do you know that the main objective of public service reform was to separate administrative and political positions. And if we are talking, for example, about the public service, about the government, there are ministers and their deputies in the government, and when this law was passed, the President had no comments that the deputy ministers were not in competitive selection. Why, then, do double standards apply to local self - government and the question of holding a competition with rural, village heads, who are equally elected positions and who should be separated from executives. And the second question. As you can imagine, the vice-representatives contest, while in the future, substitutes have to be put to the approval of the relevant councils, the sessions of the appropriate councils are absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u80	Please, Mrs. Irina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u81	Come on, I won't be loud and I'll tell you the full vision of this in accordance with article 51 of the Law on Local Self-Government, if you listen carefully, you'll understand. According to part four of article 51 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, apart from the rural, rural, urban head, only the secretary of the appropriate council and the mayor, the mayor, please listen, please listen, I listened carefully! - who have a special status. This, in turn, means that other members of the executive committee, the deputy head of the village, the village, the city head, who runs the affairs of the secretary of the executive committee, the heads of departments, administrations and other executive authorities should have the only unified status of official of local government. The unified status of deputy village, village, city head, governing matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u82	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u83	and other executive authorities, as officials of local self-government, eliminate the risks of excessive politicization of the formation and activities of the executive board. Since most of its members will be covered by the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, that's the basic answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u84	Dear Mrs. Irina, we thank you for your clarification, and we ask you to return to your workplace. And now we invite the head of the State Building Committee, Regional Policy, and the local self-government of Alona Skrum to report. Please, Mrs. Alona. And then you can sign up for the interview.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I want to explain to people what happened to the bill on service in local self-government and explain to those officials of local self-government who have been waiting for this bill for over a year. The bill was registered in Parliament in 2015, for more than a year the committee forwarded it to the second reading, regulated a huge number of amendments, conducted a working group of more than 50 participants, invited international experts, experts from the Council of Europe, the Association of Cities worked extremely fruitfully on this bill, and all other professional associations were also attached. The bill has received very, very positive feedback from the Council of Europe, experts from the Council of Europe, experts from decentralization projects and other international experts we trust. The bill was adopted in this Council, a full procedure was followed to discuss every amendment that arose and a denial arose on February 9, 2017. After that, Mr. President returned it from the veto, with two amendments and these two amendments you have just heard from the President's representative in Parliament. With the first amendment, the President proposes replacing, in fact, the wages of local self - government officials with an appropriate rate to the minimum wage, as it should be logical, as it has always been, and linking with the minimum wage. We all understand why this was done, in fact, three thousand 200 claimed minimum wage, a beautiful one that was declared by the Prime Minister not working and the President proposes to attach up to a thousand 600 dollars of minimum living minimum. We have the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority that before this amendment, Mr. President, where the Supreme Council's Office says that this contradicts the definition of the concept of "food minimum" in the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act, "The State Social Standards and Social Guarantees" and does not support such a link from minimum wage and attachment to minimum subsistence minimum. However, the committee, after considering this proposal by the President, decided to support this proposal, number one, the President. The number two proposal raises a lot of questions for those people who do a little bit of local self-governance and always work with local self-governance. In fact, the President proposes in his second amendment to the bill that he actually creates significant problems in the appointment of local self-government authorities. As you know, in accordance with the Law on Local Self - Rule, the representatives of rural, rural, urban heads are now approved by the appropriate council at the suggestion of the head. You may also know and remember that a major novelty, one of the major novels in public administration and public service reform, was that we have political positions and political positions, as well as local self - government officials and civil servants. For example, all officials are appointed by competitive procedures and by public authorities, while political positions such as rural, village, city heads are actually appointed by law by the appropriate council at the suggestion of the head, and are not, in their essence, the positions of local self - government of officials or the public service. Here, the President proposes that the representatives of the village, village, city head be elected at the contest even though they are approved by the appropriate council at the suggestion of the head. The Chief Legal Authority does not support this proposal. And this proposal raised a lot of objections on the committee, and members of the committee were rejected. The committee voted against this second proposal by the President of Ukraine. Therefore, taking into account the conclusion of the General Legal Directorate, taking into account the position of the Association-General, which has worked very well on this bill and the experts who were present during the drafting of this bill for the second reading, the Committee decided: firstly, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part six of the Supreme Council Rules 135, to partially accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, to support the proposal number one (as regards the link to the minimum subsistence minimum) and to reject the proposal number two (as regards the competition for the positions of rural (rural) and city heads) and to adopt the Law and overcome the President's veto. In this case, I'm asking, too. In this case, I will also ask the Parliament to entrust the Committee in preparing the text of the Law for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council to do, together with the Chief Legal Authority, its technical and legal work. If this proposal is not accepted by this House, then in the absence of parliamentary support, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 135, part 8, of the Rules, amend the law on committee work. And here, colleagues, I'm going to ask you to settle down, not lose the law that we've all been working on together for more than two years. And really, if you don't support the first proposal, you have to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u86	The position is clear. If the committee's proposal is not made, the committee's second reading will be reopened. Colleagues, according to the Rules, you now have the opportunity to sign up for an interview. Please. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, your question. Colleagues, please sit down so that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin has the opportunity to ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u87	My dear colleague, I understand, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine is testing the laws in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Please tell me, what standard of the Constitution of Ukraine is violated by this law? Otherwise, we're dealing with the Constitutional Court, all the Presidents -- I stress -- all the presidents in modern history of Ukraine are engaged in standard-setting, replacing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u88	Please, Mrs. Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u89	I thank you for that appropriate question. In fact, no rules of the Constitution have been violated here. There is no mention of a violation of the Ukrainian Constitution in the analysis and responses of the President of Ukraine when he returned the draft for further work. Even more, I have to say that in my proposals, the proposals are not written, or proposa. The President returned the law to the Supreme Council with two proposals, which were conceptually presented without specific changes in the vocabulary to specific norms. So the committee, even if the House supports the President's veto now actually on this bill and accepts it with the President's proposals, we don't have a text from the President, and the committee will have to come up with what the President had in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u90	Please, Eutusek, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u91	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Ms. Olena, well, it's clear here. I think on the other hand, after the competition for a substitute for rural, rural, urban head, it's obvious that someone advised the President, because he probably didn't work in the local self-government authorities, so let's say the grassroots institution, which runs the downstream government, controls it. But I have a question for you after the first amendment. Tell me, as a percentage, how much will our employees who serve in the local self-government really lose if we really support the President and remove the minimum wage from the minimum wage to the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u92	Thank you. Thank you for the difficult question. I can't say as a percentage, because I can't count it, but I can definitely say that one of the novels in this Law on Service in Local Self-Government was to enable the Council to increase the wages of those successful officials who perform their duties, to engage, for example, good experts, to engage good professionals in the service of local self-government. And that's why we gave them the opportunity to attach it to the minimum wage, but to increase it according to the ratio and budget of the city council, for example. This is the process of decentralization, when by effective decentralization, community unification, effective management, investment participation can be obtained and paid more by the local authorities. Well, unfortunately, the President's veto is actually on this standard, and he's asking us to tie it to 1,000, 600 dollars of the minimum living minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u93	Please, one last question. Look, a national MP. Please, Mr. Dentist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u94	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u95	Please, Mr. Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u96	I have two questions like that. Well, first of all, who advised the President, actually setting him up? Well, physically, how can you have a competition, like a substitute for a village head, if there are, for example, 150 or 200 people in the village? Well, that's ridiculous. The other one. What disdain is shown by these proposals to local self - government authorities when we adopted the Law on the State Service of Ukraine, where the same rule is not proposed to the deputy ministers or to the deputy heads of district, district government, and the authorities of the local government are obliged to hold a competition for substitutes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u97	Thank you. Thank you for asking. In fact, during the discussion, the committee had argued that it was totally abnormal and was actually a nonsense to be obliged to hold competitions in the role of rural or rural substitutes. But at the same time, the whole concept of reform in general is the distribution, as I said, of political positions and positions of service. So this structure is actually being broken by the President's proposal. And that's why the committee didn't support the president's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u98	Thank you! Colleagues, discussion over. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and hire jobs. So as a result of the discussion, we agreed on the next sequence. I ask the President's representative and head of the committee to be heard. First, I'm going to set up a veto. If the veto doesn't go through, I'm going to put a proposal on the committee to work on it. Yeah? Is such a sequence accepted? So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs. In order to be able to draft the law, I understand that the committee is proposing to work on the committee. Is it accepted? The President's representative, do you accept this sequence? So, colleagues, I'm going to make the first suggestion: Ukraine’s Law on Local Self - Rule (2489). The first sentence is to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. We need 300 votes. Whoever supports the defeat of the President's veto, please vote. For overcoming the President's veto, please vote. [[17:41:16]] For-129 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, now I ask everyone to unite around the proposal that was made on behalf of the committee: to send the committee for work. Please take up jobs, let's move on to decision-making. And I'm betting on the vote. It's all right, Arthur, isn't it, committee? So I'm going to put a vote on the committee to redraft the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Governmental Authorities (2489). Please vote and please support, colleagues. We're voting in a structured, organized way. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:42:11]] For 234 Decision taken. As I understand it, it's the best decision. And we hope that the committee will quickly develop this bill. Colleagues, the following day's most important Act amending the Law on Pre-Prison in Ukraine to ensure unhindered access by representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross to persons taken into custody (number 5574). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please. Vote. [[17:43:04]] For 169 169-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u99	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment to ensure unhindered access by representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross to persons taken into custody (registration number 5574). The bill proposes to supplement article 12 of the Act on Pre-Prisonment, according to which the representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross are given a position of unhindered and unhindered prior imprisonment without restrictions on the number of such dates and their duration in cases and in accordance with the terms of the Geneva Conference of 1949 on the protection of victims to enter with the report of the investigator or the court that carries out this criminal conduct free of follow-up and court proceedings. On the basis of what has been said, given the importance of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proposed a bill for the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u100	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee, Kozemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u101	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection is preparing a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment to ensure that representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross can have free access to persons taken into custody. The project proposes to supplement article 12 of the Ukrainian Law "On Pre-Prisonment" with a new part five, according to which the representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross date with persons taken into custody are granted a place of prior imprisonment without hindrance, without limitation on the number and duration of such dates in cases and under the terms of the 1949 Geneva Convention on the Protection of Victims of War with an Investigative Report, or a court that carries out criminal conduct in a free manner from follow-up and court hearings. The authors of the project note that today the legislation of Ukraine sets out the general order of dates for persons taken into custody. Thus, part of the first article of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on previous imprisonment provides that dating such persons with their relatives or other persons may be granted by the administration of missions of previous prisoners only by written permission of the investigator or the court carrying out criminal conduct at least three times per month. Dates are set from one to four hours. That is to say, it is a very European necessary law that has clearly fulfilled the requirements of the Geneva Convention since 1949. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council during its first reading of the adoption of the law on first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u102	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Lunchenko, please. Lensky Alekseiyyyovich, speaking to Andrew Lozowicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u103	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I'd like you to think that those citizens who are behind bars are also living people. Many of them have not been proved guilty and will not be proved guilty; many are not treated humanely. In the Penitentiary Service system, an absolute mess, everyone who understands what's going on in the field knows about it. And the fact that we don't have that law yet is that it's a disgrace, it's barbarism, it's the Middle Ages. Since 1859, when the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement was established, the movement that is now in place in the world, think of 97 million volunteer volunteers who protect the right to life and health, first of all, the right of a soldier. That our institutions today do not have free, unhindered access, is a violation of human rights, is a violation of the Geneva Convention, is absolute archaism of the past, which smells like naphthalene Stalinism and Nazism. This absolute abuse of people is that today a representative of the Red Cross movement cannot approach the prisoner and protect his right to health. I and many other colleagues are approached by dozens of appeals about violations of rights in investigative detention facilities primarily, in part by the violation of the rights to health of volunteers themselves, whose guilt has in most cases not been proven and proven to be not due to lack of evidence. And these people, who are often not holy, but people like all of us, like everyone else, are entitled to decent, normal, medical care. Thank God, for the radical party's initiatives, we've achieved free medicine programs, we're now looking for a free survey program for citizens. But those in prison have the same right to medical care. I urge you to support this European, this humanistic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u104	Thank you. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please, from the rostrum. My colleagues, I'm just asking you to do that, more concisely, because I'm looking at it so that we can make a positive decision, within the limits of the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, you know, in this room we talk a lot about values, we talk about our gains, about the problems that exist, unfortunately, in our country. But democracy and the European standards that we talk so much about begin, first of all, with respect for a person, for a person. And what we are offered today is an opportunity for representatives of the Red Cross to protect the right of prisoners, arrested persons, to health, to humane treatment, not only in words, but also in matters that draw us closer to what we all want along with you. As the head of the subcommittee, working with our colleagues from European structures, with our experts, with our defenders, I have prepared more than one bill aimed at humanizing and humanizing prisoners. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone in this room to support this right bill and to allow the organization that uses authority in the world to join us and help us in reforming the penitentiary system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u106	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk, please one minute, and then Irina Sisoyenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u107	Dear Ukrainians, colleagues! The Penitentiary Service should be reformed, and indeed the Red Cross has the right and the need to have access to all those who are being punished. But we, the "will of the people" group, offer to accept that only in the first reading. The second reading is that many of our military personnel, volunteers, and Ukrainian citizens in general are in uncontrollable territories. And the Red Cross doesn't have access to those areas right now. So we only vote in the first reading and the proposals to make changes so that the Red Cross has access to those people who are trapped in separatists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u108	Please, Irina Sisoyenko, one minute. And then Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill, because there will be an opportunity for people who are under guard to receive additional assistance, namely, medical supplies that can be placed by representatives of the International Red Cross to those who are in prison and need help, and that is food, and that is clothing -- all that is needed today by those who are under guard. And the self-help faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. But I want to draw everyone's attention to what -- probably nobody is saying about it -- this year, the government of Ukraine almost cut off government funding from the Red Cross Fund. So with one hand, we're giving these people an opportunity to help our Ukrainians, who are under the watch, and, on the other hand, the Ukrainian government is stopping funding the work of those workers. Appropriately, they are now being developed all over Ukraine, because there is no cost of wages. People are freeing themselves, and in fact the Red Cross of Ukraine will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u110	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u111	And in fact, just the Red Cross of Ukraine will be deprived of this physical ability to help citizens. So I demand that the government position be changed -- and that the funding that has been in our country for many years in accordance with the international agreement between Ukraine and the Red Cross. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u112	Thank you. Please, one minute, Vladimir Ariev. Mr. Vladimir, please. Excuse me, we'll go to the vote in a minute. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies to the Hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This is one of the few cases where we really care about human rights. And I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Because we know that the penitentiary system is unreformed today. And to date, all of the provision of pre-prisoned goods, services, and medical care is actually dependent on the institution’s administration. In addition, it is possible for prisoners now, previously imprisoned, to file a press complaint and to receive an appropriate response from international law - enforcement organizations, including through the application to the Red Cross. This is fully in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, the Geneva Convention. So I think that we, each of us here, are simply obliged to vote in favour of this bill on the unlimited admission of representatives of the Red Cross before.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-16-m1.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm asking you to take all the jobs. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment to ensure that representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross can have unimpeded access to persons taken into custody (No.5574) on the basis of a committee proposal. Colleagues, please vote, please support 5574 as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:56:35]] For 227 227-yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, the reduced procedure for preparing for second reading, let's support it? Short - term preparation procedure for second reading. Please support, please vote down the deadline for submission of proposals and amendments. Please be supportive. [[17:57:07]] For 199 199. The decision is not made. Colleagues, I now have a request for you. Look, I'm asking your attention, don't split up in the hall. We have today several draft decrees on the renaming of villages, settlements. It's not decommunization, it's normal. Torture renames, the villages of Padalka Poltava district issues that have no discussion, but we carry them week after week. I'm going to go to the room with a request: let's support this, colleagues, we're running out of time, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, let's invest those few minutes in our communities, in the people waiting for those decisions. So, colleagues, I'm asking you now to support us to move to a cluster of issues on the naming of villages and cities that have been prepared by the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at least a few to consider. Colleagues, let's back up. There's no politics here. Please vote, please support us to move now to this block. We'll support it, colleagues. We'll be able to get through it very soon. Colleagues, please vote. Arthur! Arthur, please support the vote. Please vote in favour of the transition, please vote, please support, vote. [[17:58:42]] For-200 Do you want to do it again or does it make sense? Let's go over it again, maybe we can just rename them without talking. Please, colleagues, I'm going to ask you once again to move on to the committee's cluster of issues on state-owned construction regarding the name of the villages and cities that the local communities have asked us for. Please vote, please support. Please vote, vote. [[17:59:22]] For 197 There is no political will, no colleague, 197. Nevertheless, we had a very fruitful day, and we passed important laws. And I think that the law that applies to the Georgian tape is very symbolic and important to Parliament, which reminds us of the main thing, that we are a parliament of a warring country, and we should remember that every day we have to take a step towards a Ukrainian victory. Welcome to today, and tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
