ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. The company, please come in and take up jobs. Can we register? Did all the factions take up battle positions? So, dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system and ask the national MPs to register, please. [[10:03:54]] 365 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, today the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and members of the government, are also present at the meeting of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Directors of the central executive branch, heads of the judicial branch. The present officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are appointed, appointed and approved to serve, representatives of public organizations and the media, heads of foreign diplomatic representations and other officials. Let's welcome all those invited. [[Applause]] Today, according to part one, paragraph 2, of article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine refers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its internal and external status. Honourable National MPs and guests are invited to announce an annual message to the rostrum by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the highly worthy members of the Ukrainian government! Dear National Deputies! You and I have moved out of a deep and deadly gap, and this is clearly our achievement. We can clearly and clearly see far away the summit that we and you are to conquer. That's our big goal. But unfortunately, we're still close to the wreckage and we can fail and retreat. Just one wrong step and we're down again. Unfortunately, this is our main risk. There's a predatory horde behind us, it's dangerous, and unfortunately, it's a long-term threat. Our gains and calculations, opportunities and challenges, strong and weak places are the subject of the annual message on internal and external status. On its base, I've prepared a so-called "long read" -- a written reference that you should be given, it's more saturated with numbers, facts, details. And also in your view, the National Institute of Strategic Research's analytical report, it reflects the point of view of its experts and complements the general picture. Dear friends, the Association Agreement has taken effect for days. Since the European Union has already agreed to a temporary application in the past year, we can look forward to its previous findings, such as the increase in our exports to the European Union, in particular in the first half of 2017, this exports increased by 23 percent, and the share of the European Union in the external trade of Ukraine finally reached 40 percent. I want to remind you that in 2012, this portion was 30 percent, and in 2009, it was 25 percent. And this shows the beginning of the process of integrating the Ukrainian economy into the European Union market. Along with the zero of the fundamental change in our geopolitical and civilizational coordinates. The introduction of visa-free travel is now the main summary of our three - year joint reform work, the work of all branches of government and society. [[Applause]] In fact, I am very grateful to both the Supreme Council and the government and the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Why is this so important? We all need to understand that it has become possible as a result of the execution of almost 150 points of the visa liberalisation plan. Anyone interested can get to know each one of them. And I emphasize that the Supreme Council was a direct participant in the implementation of this plan. Even when it came to adopting openly uncomfortably for MPs, as for other decision makers, such as the public electronic declaration of goods and income, where you are honourable national deputies, have demonstrated the ability to offer their own interests to the victim nationally. Once again, I would like to thank you, distinguished national MPs, for the joint struggle for the visalessness, for the high level of patriotism, the high level of responsibility. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]] Although, just in case, I would like to warn the individual people of their intention to review the laws that have been the basis for our partners' decision to give us a visa-free regime. Whether it's trying to cancel or make the electronic declaration unpublished, or trying to clear up the anti-discrimination amendments to the Labour Code, or it's reducing, narrowing down the powers of anti-corruption bodies, or anything else that threatens the zeros as one of our achievements. I would like to point out that I will promise such initiatives without hesitation. The letter or little attention is given to positive movements. Not to boast, though there is nothing wrong with the report. We would like every person watching us or listening to us to have the opportunity to make sure that the country that our enemies had been expecting three years ago to wipe out from the political map of the world not only protected itself, not just stood up for itself, but found the strength to change and move forward, a nation that has demonstrated such an amazing power of will to the world has the right to be proud of itself. But problems need more attention than achievement and the fact remains that society is not satisfied with life and power. And in the face of external aggression and economic crisis, severe losses and massive material losses, the sense of justice is now more acute than ever, people seem to respond with a naked nerve to the slightest lie. As a result of their entry into Ukraine three years ago, the standard of living has fallen sharply, people believe that by their endurance, they have endured such hardships, they have understood, that the people are conscientiously carrying out their part of the social contract, which is not to say about the peaks that, according to popular belief on the altar of mutual victory, they have put too little and did not provide for obvious changes. The lack of confidence in new and old government institutions, politicians of power and opposition, has turned into deep disappointment, apathy, and depression. And in order to remove this danger right now, you and I need to act immediately, quickly, give a second breath and fight corruption, and economic transformation, and remove at least the basis for talking about the seeming rejection of reforms, as if the coming of a counter revolution. There have been times in history when the absence or slowness of reforms has simply preserved the backlog of countries, leaving them on the brink of world progress. There are even worse prospects: without the completion of reforms, we have a risk of losing statehood and we will not be. But it's a pessimistic scenario, and I don't believe in it, and I won't let it. Our scenario with you is optimistic and the name of this scenario is: "Successful country is a successful Ukrainian." Victory depends, among other things, on whether you and I can properly diagnose the voice calls and give them the right answers now. What challenges do I have in mind? First. In about a year, the country will be immersed in the electoral campaign, in the spring of 2019 -- presidential elections, in the autumn of that year -- parliamentary elections. This means that we have only one year left to work actively on reforms. The other one. The further the country moves along the path of change, the more active the opposition from different groups of influence, the resource-provided minority in the form of corrupt bureaucracy and weakened but still quite strong oligarchy, with very large numbers dependent on this system of people. Increasingly, there are rematching initiatives under the heading "It Has Not Worked", proposing that reforms and innovations be abolished in order to strain or control the newly created institutions. Three years ago, I personally and most of you thought that reform wanted everyone, in fact it wasn't, the opponents of change were everywhere. There's a lot of them scattered in different branches of government, and in fancy business offices, but not just in every system: law enforcement, education, medical, etc. There are large and influential groups on the top and bottom, which are currently being set up by the status quo, when it comes to systems, emphasis, and opposition, they also have a system. Third. One of the greatest dangers is the challenge of populism. Populists like real cooks bring down peaks of objective dissatisfaction. The decommunization did not destroy the demand for the communist ideology of class hatred. Moreover, this demand has increased objectively as a result of the socio-economic crisis and the widening spread between the rich and the poor. The electoral niche released by the Communists was released for a short time, and it was quickly absorbed by several parties from the circle of recent members of the pro-European coalition. Above their headquarters are flags of blue and yellow, and from the social slogans borrowed from the archives of communists and the progressive and socialist party, and as defenders of the people, they look pretty convincing until you look at their electronic declarations. [[Applause]] Four. In the latest Freedom House report, populists are described as a double threat to global democracy by autocrats. Our specificity is the challenge of anarchy and chastity, the attempt of individual marginal groups to deny the monopoly right of the state to use force, especially the dangerous dimensions of the problem, has been achieved in the past and early this year. Now we've taken it off the hook, but we haven't completely removed it from the agenda yet, so much so that that's where the aggressor country felt the opportunity to stir up the situation in the middle of Ukraine. But before the outside world positions us now, their attempts, like Failed State, are a country that hasn't happened. Authoritarian Russia has learned to use the mechanisms of democracy effectively in its interests since it was relatively small in Moscow. The information war is the spread of fairy-tale news, the sowing of panic, the despondency of stimulation and the simulation of protest movements, the manipulation of manipulation in their interests by some right-wing groups, the sending to Ukraine of diversified groups, the preparation of terrorist acts, is far from complete with the Kremlin's tools and we have to fight them effectively. A few weeks ago, in one of the district centers of eastern Ukraine, the U.S.S.S.A. discovered a whole box — a resident of 18 Russian intelligence, coordinated by a curator from Belgrade. But the main threat from Russia is still military. There are no signs yet that Moscow would be ready to withdraw from Donbas or leave Crimea. And here is evidence of its preparation for the onset of a continental war, unfortunately, more and more than, for example, Russian-Belarusian West-2017 studies, although I think it would be more appropriate to call them "Anti-West." Naturally, this is why, not for any other reason, we have increased control in all parts of the state border. And strategic command and command training does not preclude the creation of new attack groups of Russian troops to invade Ukraine. Seven thousand platforms with soldiers and technology are approaching or approaching our borders. And unfortunately, there's no guarantee that once the maneuvers are completed that this will all come back from Belarus to their home in Russia, we don't. In 2014, under the cover of the alleged security of the Sochi Olympics, Russia set up a group to conduct a Crimea capture operation. In the second half of July 2008, the Caucasus 2008 was taught, and then the Russian troops involved in the manoeuvres, instead of returning from the polygons to the points of permanent deployment, attacked Georgia. By the way, September 2nd was nine years old, when your predecessors in this very room showed absolute political shortsightedness, irresponsibility, failed the Russian Recognition Order by a country that committed military aggression against sovereign, independent Georgia. The current trainings, which will last for up to two months, are much larger, and just imagine, the control of the rail movement now in the direction of the transfer of troops from the Russian Railways company is being transferred to the military liaison department of the Russian Ministry of Defence Transport. Apparently, the Kremlin tests how ready the Russian military forces are for the great war against the West, but the whole Russian state. Not to quote the words of a great friend of mine, a great friend of the United States Senator John McCain's: Russia is a greater threat than the Islamic State terrorist group. They don't have military capabilities, technology and a desire to rule the world, and Russia does. And she's not a friend to the free world." The political diplomatic support of Ukraine from the West is combined with the Minsk Accords, which I will continue to analyse. An important factor, this political diplomatic aid that allows us to repel Russian aggression. But the main merit is that the colliding line runs down the River of the River of the Silver Don, not on Dniper. Now this merit belongs to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the real guarantor of our independence. [[Applause]] Thank you. These applause of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Government, the Ukrainian President are also fully related to the National Guard of Ukraine, other forces. I also want to thank the security sector structures. Today, September 7th marks its 25th heroic military exploration of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And let your applause consider our common greeting of our spies to this festival. I want to say that what Major General Maxime Chapoval has done for Ukraine, the commander of the Special Intelligence Directorate, unfortunately, will not be able to be told soon. I can only say about his involvement directly in planning reconnaissance raids in the back of the enemy, where he documented evidence of the presence of Russian troops, where he warned of the danger in specific directions for specific units. And he's done a lot of useful things to protect Ukraine. Today, he signed the Order to assign Maxim Sapavall the name Hero of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And this is the attitude of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament, towards our heroes. By the way, right after I speak at the Supreme Council, I'm going to the Central Intelligence Agency to announce the assignment of Maxime Shapowal, the name of Maxime Shapovala, the Special Reserve of the General Intelligence Directorate. [[Applause]] It's very good that now the whole country and the whole world knows about his death as a result of a terrorist act. Dear friends! I would ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of all those who gave their lives for Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you very much. Please sit down. Friends, in three years, the Armed Forces of Ukraine have not simply restored their creativity; they have been re-created. They've increased operational skills and improved technical equipment, they've grown quantitatively and qualitatively. And this is the case, once again, that they say, "They're reborn." Please remember that in the summer of 2014, most of Donbas was able to regain the sovereignty of Ukraine. And only the direct intervention of the Russian military using modern technology and weapons, unfortunately, stopped the process of liberation and destroyed the rapid completion of the ATO, which seemed to be quite real before. Now the Warsaw Institute of Eastern Studies has published a report on the changes in our Armed Forces, published it under the title: "The best army Ukraine has ever had," "The best army Ukraine has ever had." We hear similar expert evaluations from foreign military analysts all the time. And the Western instructors from the NATO member countries who are training our military right now not only teach us, they're already learning our combat experience. In 2014-2015, we did six waves of mobilization, through which more than 200,000 citizens went through. Last year, I made a very difficult, dangerous decision, but the right decision to move away from the mobilization and the full transition to the contractual army. Our army is now based on military personnel who volunteered to join the army on a contract. And during 2016, 70,000 people were accepted to serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. This year, last night, it's an extra 25 grand. The following year, you and I will raise money payments for them depending on the degree of risk and the complexity of the tasks. The cost of purchasing weapons compared to the 13th year, we've increased by 10 times. In three years, the defense handed over more than 16,000 weapons and military equipment to the Ukrainian army. At first, we repaired what was already in use, which was damaged. Although new but technically obsolete species were brought down from the conveyors in Soviet times. They had to meet their basic needs quickly. We are now launching a program of military engineering. We're going to put Ukrainian weapons at the age of the 21st century, because now we're fighting with weapons of the 20th century. Russia, in modernizing military technology and weapons, unfortunately, is far ahead of us. We have important tasks ahead of us in developing and managing new rocket weapons, winged rocket complexes, modern high-precision artillery systems, high-precision ammunition, drones, spacecraft. We didn't have all this. Although we had the opportunity to do that, and I can confirm that in two or three years we've been able to make them. Just like the serial production of Oplet tanks, BTR-4 and BTR-3, the tactical battle machine "Watch-B", the drones "Spectator". We hope to successfully conclude negotiations with our Western partners on the supply of defence weapons. Dear Ukrainians! The achievement of intermediate goals, such as the acquisition of visa and the entry into force of the Association Agreement, raised questions in society about how we are going to move further towards the end goal of joining the European Union, NATO. First of all, what do you and I do now? Complete implementation of the Association Agreement. But I'm underlining that you can't limit yourself right now. And new steps should be planned now. In July, at the summit of Ukraine-EU, the Ukrainian side introduced new initiatives on our vision of strategic long-term cooperation into the leadership of the European Union. This is also an association with the Schengen area, joining the EU Customs Union, joining the EU Energy Union, joining the Common Aviation Area and the Single Digital Market. The implementation of these initiatives will in fact turn the eastern borders of Ukraine into the eastern borders of the European Union before we de jure join the European Union. As a result of such a strategy, we need to get as close as possible to the criteria for membership in the European Union. Ukraine will be sectorally integrated with the EU almost like any other European Union country. And then the question of membership becomes just a formal matter of time. No less important than membership in the European Union for all of us is participation in NATO. Russian aggression has demonstrated the complete bankruptcy of the myth of non-blocking. Tell me, where are his apologists now who, sitting in this room, assured us that the extra-block status is the guarantee of Ukraine's security? [[Applause]] We were convinced that we were safe so as not to irritate Russia. What price was paid for this? Russia attacked Ukraine outside the bloc, occupied our territories, and most importantly, Russia killed more than 10,000 Ukrainian citizens. And those who assured us that fig leaves are the best protection, where are they now? They found refuge in Moscow and under Moscow and other cities. To judge them is, unfortunately, inadvertent. But I'm sure the truth will be proved. Together with North Atlantic partners, we are jointly building the Ukrainian army in line with NATO standards, which it is mainly expected to achieve by the end of 2020. I'm sure the army will be the first state institution to meet the criteria for membership in the Alliance. Without formal approval of the membership plan, we are doing it in a one-sided manner. Opinion polls show that most Ukrainians support both joining the EU and joining NATO. And I'm not ruling out that at the right time I'm initiating a proper referendum to demonstrate the will of the Ukrainian people to all: both our friends, and our aggressive neighbours, and, by the way, to all Ukrainian politicians. So on any political agenda, none of them will be able to re-examine this course and turn on the scoundrel. Before Russia started fighting Ukraine, its main weapon was energy. By 2014, Moscow had kept us in its orbit of gas dependence. It would seem that the unbeatable force of gravity will never be overcome. And in November, my friends, I want to say hello, it's two years old when we don't buy gas in Russia. [[Applause]] This indicates only one thing: The era of gas blackmail has never been reversed in the past. And it's not easy to buy, and it's given us the opportunity to submit and win Stockholm arbitration. We're looking forward to a decision on this arbitration called Naftogazu to Gazprom and transit. And in view of the conclusion of the contract in 2019, our tasks through the European Union will bring about a revolutionary change in the organization of transit. What's that? It is the Russian gas that the Europeans buy in the west, not in the eastern border of Ukraine, together with us. Ukraine provided quality transit services, not to Russia, but to the European Union. And in atomic energy, we're also gradually reducing Russia's share, but up to 40 percent is already growing in the Westin House company, and this company is already providing fuel to six reactors out of 15. And during my visit to the United States, there was also cooperation in nuclear energy and coal, and in the whole energy field, you can see that the first batch of American transit that will replace Russian is expected for days, all in all, so far more than 700,000 tons have been contracted in the United States. And none of the panic predictions that occurred, remember, after last year’s presidential elections in the United States, that the United States would immediately cancel the sanctions. Do You Remember How We Were Frightened? Not only have sanctions not only been lifted, but they have been strengthened, deepened, and we welcome this position of our partners in the United States. [[Applause]] Secondly, theoretical discussions about hypothetical dependence or the possibility of giving Ukraine defence weapons in the United States have finally turned into a practical plane of negotiations. Thirdly, Kiev and Washington intensified the dialogue at the highest level and increased the level of the Ukrainian-American partnership – this is despite the fact that, after last year's elections, dozens of Ukrainian deputies visited the banks of Potomac, some of the visitors tried to achieve a completely reverse result, namely, the cooling down of Ukraine and the United States. The creation of an international coalition to support Ukraine in the fight against Russian aggression, the maintenance of this coalition in an active state is the daily work of all Ukrainian diplomacy. Of course, the sanctions regime that's been going on for the fourth year is not lethal for Russia, but this is, I stress, a very effective tool to restrain it, to get it to sit down at the negotiating table, which is why we will continue to fight any attempt to take them down or even weaken them. On the contrary, you will seek their extension, intensification, and intensification. Dear National Deputies! The most painful and difficult issue is the fight against corruption. If you speak the language of the Internet and social networks, it's hard to put a hashtag on "win," but it's also hard to put a hashtag on the question now with a hashtag on the word "deed," and it's also wrong, we have to demonstrate a decisive follow-up. Now, on a competitive basis under public scrutiny, with its involvement, we have created the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Major changes are taking place in the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the National Police, and there are also competitions and certification procedures involving personnel from outside the system, creating new internal control offices such as the General Inspectorate of the Civil Service. Recognizing the criteria for assessing the work of law enforcement agencies, he basically refused division: new and old. Everyone has their own pluses, everyone has their own minuses, they have growth sicknesses, but they're all doing an important joint thing. In general, a fairly dense network has been rebuilt so that today no high - ranking worker has the guarantee of impunity. No one, no one, can ever guarantee a political roof or cover. Yes, I feel the question in the air, it's to a full extent, and the emphasis is on the so-called friends of the President. No one on my team, in case of objective claims by law enforcement lawyers, is going to work as a lawyer, nor is there any place on my team. Friends until the end of the current cadence for more than two years, and the Supreme Council has already established an absolute record of the results of the vote, depriving the MPs of their immunity. For the first time, the submission comes not only to opponents or so-called non-fractional ones, but also to MPs who are members of the ruling parties and the ruling coalition, I urge, as you have expected, to make and agree, at last, changes to the Constitution, which cancel the parliamentary integrity. [[Applause]] To make it easier for you to make this decision so that you don't feel that it's somehow directed against you, I have a very simple proposal, let's adopt this decision by putting it into effect on 1 January 2020 for the deputies of the already new Supreme Council. Maybe it'll be more effective. So, the list of crime figures, thank you very much for your support. [[Applause]] The list of crime figures shines out loud names and positions whose scale in recent, literally, times were like indulgences from any persecution and what in this anti-corruption history is missing is unfortunately a happy end. The happy end in this case is just one that ends with the indictment and the imprisonment of corrupters. Only under such conditions will society believe in the seriousness of our intentions to curb corruption. And during 2016-2017, the GPA, the NAB, the BAF, the IMF handed over over more than 5,000 anti-corruption criminal conducts to the courts, and they all complain that the courts are putting in that long box, or even putting cases against high-ranking corrupters under the dress. The correct principles in the fight for the cleansing of the judiciary have proved to be a serious side effect, several thousand judges have been released for various reasons, and the personnel deficit in the courts has become a new threat to citizens’ rights to just justice. For example, the entire wall of cases against high-ranking officials going to the Pecher Court has only a few judges to deal with, we have about a dozen courts where there are no judges at all. The pressure on the judge may be more than a thousand cases a year, but as confidence is restored, it is clear that only appeals to the courts will increase and we need to be prepared to increase the number of courts and employees of the apparatus. In the summer, an interest-free competition for the formation of a new Supreme Court was concluded, and the composition of a higher judicial institution was formed with the active participation of society. In 80 percent of the cases, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges agreed with the Public Council of Virtue. And the candidates with whom the board had claims were not on the final list. Ninety percent of the winners of the competition have not worked before the Supreme Court, and about 30 percent are lawyers and scientists. This is the fresh blood that the system needs for its renewal. It is urgent that a special anticorruption court be established. This body is to be formed on a competitive basis from judges with an irreprehensible reputation. It must be dependent only on the law, but free from any foreign influence, my, your, honourable national MPs, political parties, law enforcement, progressive society. It has to meet the standards of the Council of Europe, the standards of the Venice Commission, and the main thing is to be effective, not designed for a branch. It needs to be formed quickly, the model is being developed increasingly, and taking into account the mistakes of other countries where specially organized anticorruption courts have proved to be very low in value. And he's been through the record of the State Bureau of Investigation several times. We are once again faced with the need to make changes to the law and move Deadline on 20 November. By this date, at least select the DBR manager who will be able to quickly form and run the office within an additional transitional period. The question is mature and mature: the Financial Investigation Service. This principle should not entitle the new body to prosecute individual entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized individuals, even large businesses, unless they are organizers and participants in systems of systematic fiscal dissipation or tax evasion. Analytical work aimed at identifying crime patterns, their expert study, should be a key part of the ministry’s activities. Of course, the new service should have a full range of powers to counter economic crime. As a law enforcement body of a democratic society, the Financial Investigation Service will be fully independent of its activities, but will remain under full parliamentary control. [[Applause]] Friends, law enforcement should forget about controlling small businesses at all, except in cases where suspicion is alleged, and not competitors have whispered that an entrepreneur is involved in a particular fraud scheme. By the way, at least in the preparation of the 2018 budget, I would suggest that I refrain from making further proposals to cancel or cool the only tax. [[Applause]] I have a request to give at least a few people called the middle class to work on a few years of planning. It has become a tradition that the fate of small business in the new year is known only a few months or weeks before the President’s birthday. And what I want to point out is that the middle class is the one with the most stress on its shoulders over the last three years. He pays full energy tariffs without the right to subsidies. Over the past three years, he's been deprived of his rights, properly deprived of tax optimisation. He felt a reduction in the payable demand and endured it, and today he needs our support with you. It is this middle class from computer to farmer in the field that needs time to rehabilitate. The middle class, without subsidies, once again, experienced devaluation, experienced inflation, increased tariffs, credit problems, and many other problems. I'm underlining! He paid his own price. He carried the burden himself without any support or assistance from the State. Restoring and expanding the middle class is not only about people who belong to this social group. The more powerful it is, the richer it is, the society, the more successful and the more proactive people, the more stable democracy, the stronger the country. I would ask all of us and the Supreme Council, and the government, it's politics, it's a social task, to take exactly into account in planning and tax innovation, and in budgetary money, and in legislative activity, to take priority. Now I want to go back to the topic of anti-corruption strategy. And I'd like to stress again, it's not just punishmental technology. By 90 percent, the successful fight against corruption consists of removing sources of corruption, such as excessive regulation, opaque cost management, the ability of officials, or politicians to intervene in the work of enterprises, and vaguely formulated legislation that gives rise to abuse of it, and so forth. Modern technology, the benefits of electronic governance, and the diversity of software provide, unfortunately, unique opportunities. The Prozorro system has increased the competition in public procurement, it has provided a multibillion-dollar economy for the budget and optimized purchase prices. And it's no wonder that every now and then there are initiatives to limit the system and to get some tenders out of it, etc. But the system was, is, and will be under my protection. I started it, and I'll protect it. And we're nobody's Ministry of Economics, and the government, and the Supreme Council, who allowed it, is our joint achievement. I'm gonna say it again. And we have to work together to protect it. I hope that soon all stages of purchases will be controlled electronically from budgeting to contract making. And this year's system is launched, another huge achievement that was voted in this Hall, which was introduced by the government, is the VAT electronic administration system and the only public register of claims for its compensation, which is certainly destroying one of the most corrupt schemes that have existed in Ukraine for years. And business now felt the effectiveness of these changes. At customs duty, up to 30 percent of customs declarations are already made through a single window. But that's not enough. And in the shortest possible time, we need to set up a system of exchange of customs information with the countries of the European Union. I demand that joint controls be put in place as soon as possible at the crossing points with the customs and border authorities of the European Union. And I'm convinced that just a crumb of blurry data in Ukraine with our neighbours, the countries of the European Union, will be an effective anti-corruption action. The canceled hundreds of normative acts that made business more difficult have created opportunities for abuse by officials. New electronic services are regularly created to provide public services. Access to most existing electronic registers in the country has been made open, including recent data on beneficiaries of all companies. I support the idea and ask the government to do the most serious work on it. To order, please note, in an important international structure, an independent audit of Ukrainian anti-corruption policy over the last three years. To assess its impact on the decline of both corruption and corruption risks and to cover up the various schemes that have flourished for decades but have been destroyed in recent years. Fighting corruption is not just a matter of justice and the triumph of the law. Its success, or vice versa, depends on investment climate, economic situation, and social progress. Economic issues, of course, are mostly government competence. So I'm just going to focus on a few issues of strategic order. Learned by bitter experience, we will never again allow for such dependence on the Russian market that we were in during the first two decades of our independence. The negative effect of Russian economic aggression was compounded by the dilapidated decline in world prices on the key items in our exports, the balance of the financial and banking systems for 2014. And the general unreformation of our economy with a bunch of old-fashioned problems. Problems that presidents, governments and parliaments have repeatedly passed on to successors rather than to solve. Governments: two cabinets of Arsenius Yatsenyuk and the third Vladimir Groysman had no choice but to take very hard, principled and unpopular steps. [[Applause]] And although these steps were unfortunately extremely difficult for people, I would stress that without them the situation in the country would be much worse. I fully support these steps. And every penny that Ukraine gets from the IMF, I want to dissipate another myth, every penny is carefully stored in the government's gold reserves. Today, these reserves exceed $18 billion. And that's because half a billion this month we paid interest on the loan. I'll remind you that in February of 15th, the reserves went down to 5 billion. And over the past few years, we've filled the state treasury with more than $13 billion. And the course of bracelets after a faint drop in 14-15 years is relatively constant for almost two years. The painful and extensive process of clearing the system from the sick and dangerous to the entire financial and banking system of Ukraine of the sick banks has been completed. The NBA gradually removes temporary administrative restrictions. And the new concept of monetary regulation, proposed by Nazbank, comes out of a liberal principle: anything that is not explicitly forbidden is allowed. And it's market-oriented, and it's fully in line with Article 145 of the Association Agreement and the EU Directives on Free Movement of Capital. This is an example of our sectoral integration. Hard anti-crisis steps, macro-financial stability, lower tax burden on business, deregulation, opening up new markets and other measures, all opened the way to economic recovery. GDP is already growing six blocks in a row after 14 blocks of decline. And this is what I'm stressing is that the main part of the industrial potential of Ukraine, which was located in Donbasa, is occupied, excluded from economic circulation. We're predicting an increase of 1.8 percent this year. We expect economic growth to accelerate to 4 percent in 2020. Last week, Moody’s increased Ukraine’s credit rating. It's not the first or only one to come to that conclusion, because two of the other most authoritative agencies in the world have done it a little earlier. The "negative" forecast, which was solid in March 15th, is gradually moving forward now confidently "positive", which was declared in August 17th. Regular surveys by corporate managers, which are conducted quarterly by the National Bank, have shown an increase in optimistic expectations, both as regards the development of the macroeconomic situation and the financial situation of the enterprises themselves. Directors are confident that there will be an increase in the production volume of goods and services. According to a study conducted by the European Business Association, Ukraine’s Investment Attraction Index has finally left the negative plane and has become the highest in six years. By the beginning of this year, a decision had been made to increase the minimum wage to 3,200 dollars. Remember how much criticism there were. Now we can say for sure that it fully justified itself by increasing the legal wage rate and increasing the income of the Pension Fund by an additional 11 billion. The government took the first steps to raise wages for teachers and doctors. I hope that next week the Supreme Council of Ukraine will adopt our joint draft pension reform, which has been developed by the government, approved and co-financed by the National Reform Council of the President of Ukraine. You've made a very big contribution. I very much hope that this will allow the fall for a large part of pensioners to increase their pensions. This is, as I have said many times, a major and principle reform, a position that will enable and heal the pension situation, and support the increase in pensions. I emphasize once again, I'm a participant in this process, and I fully support it. This, of course, is not so great. Not so that the authorities can constantly boast about them, but people keep thanking them. But what I want to point out is, in this case, it's not about quantity, it's about what's changing trends. It's not easy for us to pay an extra few pennies before the election, and we're fundamentally changing the situation at the Pension Fund, increasing the revenue and making these trends permanent. The government also needs to find the possibility that today's GDP will transform into an accelerated and confident rise into what is called a constant development. Hence, in addition to such important reforms as retirement, such as health care. By the way, I would like to thank this room for its strong support for education reform, which is a huge step that is an investment by Ukraine in the future. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]] I am confident that both medical and pension and educational reforms will contribute to investment and economic growth at a pace that will allow us to reduce backlogs from more developed countries. But as a prerequisite, we need macroeconomic stability. To implement an IMF programme without which Ukraine has shown itself to be extremely vulnerable, especially given that in the 19th year there is a peak payment on external liabilities. And the law that I hope you will vote right after my speech, and the judicial reform that I also hope will be supported by you will demonstrate a very qualitative change in the situation of reforms in Ukraine. A qualitative change in the investment climate as well. Because the number of unemployed in the International Labour Organization methodology is less than 10 percent of the economically active working population. Reducing unemployment, creating new jobs, I stress once again, increasing people's income is what people expect from the government, from the government as a whole, not using the nuances of the constitutional distribution of authority. Legalization of employment and employment income is one of the main tasks not only of authority, but of society as a whole, the state has taken a major step towards meeting workers in terms of reducing the only social contribution to 22 percent, and then has the legal and moral right to rely on the removal of wages from the shadows. It is surprising, however, that the legislative proposals to reduce significantly, and in fact to abolish, the responsibility for non-forming workers. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! Not long ago, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development assessed the success of reforms in Central Europe and Asia. Unfortunately, there's nothing to rejoice about, from the 30 countries we've studied, that we've taken the 20th place next to Georgia and Bosnia, the result would obviously look better if most of what we've done over the last three years would have been implemented in the previous 23 years. The first ten are those who started and left the reforms did in the 1990s, leading Estonia, Poland, Slovakia. And that's why I'm listening to the thoughts of Lesek Baltzerovich my advisor, and the Prime Minister is counseled by John Miklos, the former Slovak government official, and these are real reformers who, not social demagogies and whispers in Ukraine, were actually helping us with their experience. [[Applause]] So if you take this experience: in Estonia, they put everything into private hands: the port, telecommunications, aviation and even the railway, in Poland, with eight and a half thousand state-owned enterprises in the hands of the state, there are now 41-no, by the way, no foreign land. Despite the fact that the inhabitants of these countries can easily buy or sell agricultural land. Ukrainians are now deprived of this right and millions of people are formally owned by the land, but they have decided that they are unable to manage it and have put in place a completely unconstitutional moratorium. Why, then, do we allow people to sell apartments? Also, someone can buy them all. And as a public figure in the decision-making process, I have to consider public opinion. And at the moment, unfortunately, it was formed by the populists. And I'm not going to print from the Supreme Council land reform, I'm not going to do that. But please approve orally, in the mind, at least in the heart of a political decision on her behalf. Adopt laws that will at least remove phobias that are available on this subject in society and among national MPs that take into account all the warnings: exhibit all the fuses, set the minimum price, protect the peasant, make a transparent position in the register for registration, but give freedom to the Ukrainian peasant. And I'd like you to say, more specifically, you define yourself, call it a clear start date, let it not even be today: land market and privatization, my dears, it's not what the President asks, or pressures, it's not going to be. The land market is two of the fastest and most reliable ways to quickly invest in Ukraine. And it's not. Friends, it's not investors who say it's a common position of the world. Such privatization has always been, I understand, my dear, always been a multilateral conflict of interest. Someone bought factories and factories, invested in modernization and development, others wanted to privatize profits without spending money on asset acquisitions, hindered the privatization of the largest enterprises, and now, by the way, they're hampering. We have the opportunity to sell assets openly, competitively under new transparent and understandable rules based on a new law that you have in your, honourable national deputies, your hands, and it would be conceptually wrong to use the message in the field. Yet, when I mentioned Estonia, it is this country that has set another worthy example of imitation in electronic governance and the IT sector that we also have the opportunity to grab the tail of its heat-bird. IT is one of the key to Ukraine's economy. 13 Ukrainian IT companies have joined the world's top 100 best outsourcing companies, and imagine that, in 2016, IT services exports have already made up three percent of our Ukrainian GDP, and there are over a hundred thousand IT professionals in Ukraine, and we are ready to actively cooperate with key global producers of large, venture funds, because our nation is a place where new ideas are born. [[Congrats]] I would like to draw Parliament’s attention and to speeding up the adoption of laws on electronic communications relating to the prospect of connecting the fourth and fifth generations, on providing electronic services, on improving the protection of intellectual law, on cloud technology, and on transforming the country’s innovation potential into a state’s competitive struggle in the world market. And in this context, especially important is, once again, educational reform I don't just welcome it, I just thank you for the vote that took place on September 5th, this is an important step towards a new Ukrainian school, which is a prerequisite for our innovative development of the systematic preparation of Ukrainians for success in a competitive world. And you can't separate information technology from other areas of life. Because the best projects for society are those that arise in collisions: IT and agriculture, medicine. Last week, I gave an assignment to take into account in the preparation of the Rural Medical Development Act, the introduction of telemedicine, so that we can today ensure access to medicine for all 14 million people who are currently living in the Ukrainian village. This will also be an important component of medical reform. In this year's budget, I wanted to thank you for providing 4 billion dollars to resuscitate the country's health system. And I am often in the regions, and this year the schedules of such trips were filled with pleasant events. I was lucky to be able to participate in the opening of the renovated bridges and roads that became possible, thanks to the priority that was set by the Supreme Council, the government and the President on road construction. As a result of an experiment that was able to demonstrate and anti-corruption steps, detinction that ensured that customs revenue was exceeded, which remained in the regions and was directed towards road construction, the construction of modern hospitals, modern schools, theaters, sports facilities, the main factory, factories that had been opened over 80 years. In 2014, I want to remind you, in Ukraine, 102 kilometers of roads were repaired throughout Ukraine. This year, the road repair plan is three thousand miles [3,300 km], compared with the two figures. But at the same time, I want all of our law enforcement agencies to coordinate their efforts with the very strict control of every bracelet spent on road construction. The unprecedented increase in allocations may also threaten the same repeated, repeated increase in the extent of looting. Change in places could hardly be possible without one of our key reforms, an important part of my yet pre-election campaign: decentralization. Local budgets are growing two and a half times, from 69 billion in 2014 to 170 billion planned for the current year, which is already under way. My friends, I'd like to draw your weight to one very important figure. Some of the local budgets in the country’s budget are rapidly approaching 50 percent and are likely to overcome the gap. Imagine, the local budgets now have more money left than the state budget, it's not just money, it's both responsibility and the principle of political position. According to local budgets, other than transfers, there are now and stable sources of income that never existed. Parts of public taxes and congregations, local taxes and congregations, and reform have provided new opportunities for urban and rural development. And if the local budgets used to be wages, local budgets now have the opportunity to build roads, schools, kindergartens, administrative services centers, and lighting to dramatically change where the leader is on the ground, especially where the united communities are able to actually carry out their policies. Not all, of course, were oriented toward giving advice to money. And on September 1st, thirteen and a half billion dollars lie on deposits in commercial banks, instead of working for people, to ensure the development of territorial communities. At present, the transfer of the right of communities to manage land within and outside populated areas is particularly important. [[Applause]] It is very important to ensure and transfer of authority in the area of architectural and building control, the provision of administrative services. There's nothing to go to the central authority. So this decentralization works, is an effective injection from the federalization, a strong guarantee of the unitaryness of our congregational Ukraine. At the same time, the actions of individual political forces are astounded and indignant. For example, last year they inspired the decision of a number of district councils to establish so - called contractual relations between the state and the respective regions. What are you doing?Oh, my How should the President, the government, and the Supreme Council appreciate such an initiative? Indiscretion, shortsightedness, error? Whose mill are you trying to pour water on? And I'm going to the MP's corps of local councils asking very carefully to look at what you're voting for, what adventures you're sometimes involved in by central party bodies, blinded by the struggle for power. They're going to lead you to federalism. During these years, friends, we have adopted and implemented a series of extremely important decisions in the field of humanitarian policy and national memory. And I wanted to thank you for that. We create our own identity by protecting our cultural and humanitarian space. In three years, we had decommunization. Finally, 26 years of independence. A total of 32 cities, 25 districts, have been renamed, and nearly a thousand have been inhabited. Friends, Lenin’s monuments alone, have been cleaned up over 1,300 years ago. Imagine. [[Applause]] Another important position. The state officially recognized and respected the Ukrainian National Liberation Movement, including the Ukrainian rebel army. Finally, 26 years old. [[Applause]] And I wanted to point out that we no longer celebrate the Day of Fatherland's Protector on February 23. Our October 14th festival, Ukrainian Armed Forces Day. [[Applause]] As a result of the sanctions imposed this year against companies that administer Russian search and social networks. There was also tremendous criticism of his day. But now it's the result. Russian propaganda sites came out of dozens of the largest websites visited in Ukraine. Unfortunately, Russian networks have been and remain instruments for Russian intelligence operations in the undeclared war against Ukraine. Therefore, we will continue to monitor and shorten their presence. Imports of books from the Russian Federation were arranged, since along with the certainly worthy examples of artistic and scientific literature, a very powerful stream of Ukrainian writing and propaganda was being poured into Ukraine. This decision has been a good incentive for the country's bookkeeping, which now has every chance to meet the demand of Ukrainians for quality literature. And I would ask the government next year to support the National Bookkeeping by increasing the cost of purchasing literature for libraries. And also, to find an effective mechanism so that the smuggling of books does not undermine efforts, the effect of strategically correct decisions. It's too early to talk about the renaissance of Ukrainian cinema. But it's that his process of rebirth is beginning, as it seems to me. Last year 30 Ukrainian films were screened. I emphasize, it's also a record for all years of independence and it's also happening during the war. Thirty - nine films, 19 of which were produced for state support, were or are expected. First of all, I would also like to emphasize this, we need to support the movies of patriotic orientation, not horror movies. [[Applause]] And I'm sure this is how organized work is going to be. As a result, we fill the national status of the Ukrainian language with concrete meaning. The first results of the Ukrainian radio quota, too, thank you very much for your support, we're already hearing these results. As this works on television, we will soon see. In turn, a project that guarantees a full presence in the field of services in the Ukrainian language. It has to strike a balance between the language of the state and the principle: "The client is always right." As we care about the Ukrainian empire that has been trying to be destroyed for centuries, we as a European state are constantly leaving a wide space for the cultural and informational product of Crimean Tatar, Russian, and other languages. And in the area of private language communication, the state should not intervene at all, and it will never intervene. The Supreme Council approved a historic appeal to the Space Patriarch asking for an autocafalia by the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you so much for this decision. I would also like to inform you that I, in turn, wrote a letter to Bartholomew I. And this passage, my dears, addressed not only to the Ukrainian Parliament, is this project, and not only to the Ukrainian people. Let us also be heard by the leadership of the Universal Patriarchate. Once again, I would like to draw his Holiness’s attention to the very seriousness of our intentions, to the presence in the Ukrainian leadership of the firm political will to solve this problem, which unfortunately has been in the order of the day since 1991. Ukraine has the right to the Municipal Church. And we have the right to protect it. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. This is more than a convincing position and a vote. And our expectation of the recognition of the Ukrainian autocephaly by the Ecumenical Patriarch, I stress, will not mean in any way the emergence of the State Church or the prohibition of other Orthodox denominations in Ukraine. But no one has the right to deprive the Ukrainians of their right to their own church. Each citizen of Ukraine alone has chosen, chosen, and selected the faith and the church. And the Ukrainian state is far from the church, but it can't passively observe how other states and other government agencies use their church institutions to achieve their geopolitical goals. [[Applause]] Although I would like to stress separately that I will not sign a bill proposing to accept the nomination of bishops and priests with the authorities. This is not a matter of state. As for other legislative initiatives, I am willing to discuss, consider with understanding. With the understanding that it's still too sensitive. My dears! Despite Russian aggression, we did not go to the limits of democratic rights and freedoms, nor did we establish a state of war when there were good reasons. There was a much better functioning of the parliamentary-presidential model of cooperation between parliament, government and the President than there was in 2006-2010. On no occasion did I exercise the right to terminate the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a joint indictment before the Constitutional Court and the veto was not used very often. But then, unfortunately, the various branches of government were only engaged in mutual struggle and failed to carry out any or any kind of principled reform. Of course, the model is not perfect, so from time to time, I have suggestions to make a difference: to give the President the amount of authority from the 96th Constitution, or to turn the President into a ceremonymeister. Someone suggests a tune: More clearly, write articles that are treated ambiguously. In a democratic society, there are no topics that are closed to discussion. As I took office, in my inaugural speech, I emphasized my commitment to the idea of the parliamentary-presidential republic. In time, he gave himself some authority to vote in favour of amendments to justice and decentralization. But I wanted to make it clear that I never agree with the proposals to take away from people the right to elect a President and to pass that right on to Parliament. I stress that the extent of the powers of the Head of State should also be sufficient to effectively carry out the functions of the Commander-in-Chief. [[Applause]] Obviously, making fundamental changes to the Constitution is not likely to be welcomed by society in the electoral cycle. And coming closer to the presidential and Supreme Council vote makes the idea of temporary elections even more irrational. My position is unalterable -- everything must take place within the term defined by the Constitution. [[Applause]] This is absolutely necessary to ensure a free, transparent, competitive and honest campaign. And that's exactly how I'm set up, and we need to get ready for it today. And please, ladies and gentlemen, over the next few weeks, perhaps even days, to conclude the consultations, and offer me proposals on candidates for the new members of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! The Russian military threat, the position war at Donbassa, are key factors of uncertainty both about the political situation and about economic and social prospects. So finally, it's about the main thing. About the peace and prospects of Donbas' return. The prospects for the return of Crimea. During the last year, from various political forces, including the walls of Parliament, there has been devastating criticism at the address of the Minsk Accords. Yes, they are imperfect. They praised themselves in very difficult military and political conditions for Ukraine. They have not brought lasting peace, but they remain undeniable facts. Which is precisely what the Minsk Accords have helped us to significantly reduce the level of fighting and accordingly the human loss on Donbassa. Guys, I want to get your attention! Since August 25th, when the "bread truce" came in, Ukraine has no, at present, loss of war. And these, including the outcome of the implementation of the Minsk Accords. Thanks to the Minsk Accords, we have been able to form a strong international coalition to support Ukraine. Thanks to the Minsk Accords, we have managed to preserve an effective mechanism of international sanctions against the Russian aggressor. Finally, Russia began to be called an aggressor. Remember, in the 14th year, everyone was trying to escape, calling this conflict in eastern Ukraine. What is important is that we have had valuable time to build a quality new Ukrainian army and to launch a reform engine. Any new agreements, if they weren't called, would essentially reproduce the current ones and start with a major, complete and comprehensive ceasefire. The main reason for the lack of progress in resolving the situation in Donbas is the complete lack of the Kremlin's political will to carry out its own commitments. The inefficiency of mine agreements is the lack of the Kremlin's will to do them as if someone didn't want to translate it into someone else. Nevertheless, we and the world must continue to pressure the aggressor with a view to forcing him to peace through the pursuit of the mine and in proportion to the price of failure. Russia continues to provoke, hinder effective monitoring of the OSCE monitoring mission, provide arms to Ukrainian territory and mercenaries and, under such conditions, deploying the "blue helmets" of Donbas throughout the occupied territory of the United Nations would be a real breakthrough in the process of peaceful settlement, a powerful factor of de-escalation. This would certainly create an enabling environment for progress on the political track of the peace settlement on Donbassa, which is where I see the positive side of the debate on this issue. I would like to stress that Ukraine started this discussion in 2015, which I sent to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and to the Head of the UN Security Council in March 2015, a call for the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping operation in the territory of our State, which was based on the support of the Supreme Council and the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian side passed on to our partners at the UN Radbeg, a draft resolution, but so far Russia has been completely rejecting this possibility for two years, and all of our partners, frankly, have not been very active in supporting it. Today we've achieved a very important result, we have a common voice of partners who support the Ukrainian initiative, we've finally heard a certain reaction on the other side of the front, although we clearly understand that "the devil is in detail." Of course, the RF's proposal to launch the UN mission exclusively for the purpose of protecting the OSCE's special monitoring mission is at least surprising. Moreover, it is the Russian militants who pose a major threat to the security of international observers. The Ukrainian side is ready for a substantive discussion with the members of the Security Council and the United Nations, and I believe that this discussion should include such principles. And, first of all, we stand for the deployment of a full-fledged United Nations peacekeeping mission across the United Nations. It should aim not to preserve the Russian occupation, not to legalize Russian military presence, but to ensure lasting peace in individual areas of Donetsk, Lugansk region of Ukraine and to restore the territorial integrity of our state. Secondly, the future UN mission should be deployed throughout the temporarily occupied territory, including the uncontrolled area of the Ukrainian-Russian border. Thirdly, the mission should be in line with the guiding principles of the conduct of UN international operations, which excludes the participation of representatives of the aggressor country or the parties to the conflict. [[Applause]] And fourthly, no alignment with Russian fighters parameters, participation, a future UN mission can go. [[Applause]] Fifthly, working on this initiative is in no way the basis for lifting existing international sanctions against the Russian Federation. They must remain valid for the full restoration of sovereignty, territorial integrity, and independence of our State through the implementation of the Minsk Accords. And it's clear that it's going to be extremely difficult to agree on the parameters of a peacekeeping mission, and in a week and a half, I'm going to New York to the UN General Assembly, and I'm confident that by working together, through international partners, first of all: Germany, France, and the United States, we will certainly find peace, we will return the occupied territories, we will restore the sovereignty of Ukraine. And why is politics, the diplomatic path, our priority? First, the enemy is entrenched in an urbanized area with megapolises with large ones. To the population, there are Ukrainian citizens, we cannot and will not destroy our communities as cold-blooded as Russian leadership has done in Chechnya, and other cases of such a harsh Pacification I can't even remember. Secondly, the military potential must be compared not only to what is in occupied areas, but to what is at the disposal of Russia. Her second army in the world, the military budget, I emphasize that since 2000, the military budget of Ukraine has exceeded five times the military budget of Ukraine. More comparisons can be found in the written text: the number of tanks, airplanes, drones, electronic warfare, and so forth. Thirdly, the return of the conflict to the hot stage will put the cross on all reforms and the restoration of the standard of living of Ukrainians, while society is tired of war. And the sign of such fatigue is that 11 percent of the Ukrainians, some of them are in this room, are actually offering to give up any attempt to return the occupied territories to Donbas, cut them off and give them to the enemy, waiting for it to return to itself. 14 percent of people advocate for the conflict to freeze, and the areas to isolate these projects are even in the Supreme Council. I'm quoting figures from a survey that was conducted early in the summer, 13 percent save for a military attack, but I'm underlining, almost 60 percent support the return of occupied areas exclusively by political diplomatic means. And the bill on the characteristics of state policy on the restoration of state sovereignty over the occupied territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine will soon be published and put out for discussion in Ukraine and among our partners, the Ukrainian public will have the opportunity to discuss it fully and thoroughly. The decisive word will follow you, honourable national deputies, and you will have the opportunity to have a full discussion. Now it's about Crimea. Can we reflect Crimea in Russia by force? Realistic? No, it's not. Will she go from there alone? Sadly, no. But we can create conditions with you when Crimea becomes an unliftable burden for Moscow, so the thief sometimes throws away what is stolen when it begins to bake, and we have to create all the conditions to make it hard for him. We use instruments of international law, sanctions, international courts, arbitration, various international platforms, monitoring mechanisms, starting with the United Nations and ending with UNESCO. And attracting the Russian Federation to international legal responsibility for a long time. Unfortunately, it's long-term, but I believe it's an effective process. Yes, we will force Russia to answer in the language of rights for its actions in Ukraine. And the first hearings before the United Nations International Court of Justice demonstrated that the cases were extremely difficult, complex. Ukraine is a pioneer, and there has never been such a practice before, but we have started it, Russia will answer. We are on the right track, the court has already ordered Russia to stop violating human rights in Crimea and racial discrimination policies on the peninsula, and to record this fact. Dear National Deputies, you and I have been deprived of the pain of choice that our predecessors suffered for two decades. If the authorities had not known where to go before, how could they lead the people? If the elite strayed in three pines, or two vectors, how could it show the way to the Ukrainian people? The people took the initiative and set up their own European course during the Dignity Revolution. And this choice was confirmed by the vote in the presidential and parliamentary elections for the political forces that Ukraine sees in the single family of European peoples. The EU course on NATO is obvious and irreversible. What we need is to choose the shortest route, the means of moving and the optimum speed. I am prepared for any discussion with politicians, experts, international partners and all society, and the message is just the beginning of this conversation. NATO accession, we don't need to join the European Union for membership in prestigious clubs. It's a question of civility, a guarantee of Ukraine's independence. NATO is after Russian aggression, when the postwar world security system was destroyed, is the only body that has demonstrated its effectiveness, a reliable system of collective security. The European Union is a political culture of rights and freedoms, standards, the standard of living that is worthy and worthy of what the Ukrainians desire. And most importantly, Ukraine is not the only one going to Europe, our task with you is to bring Europe to Ukraine. And everything in Ukraine must be brought into line with European standards, including, separately, the level of material well-being of citizens. The Ukrainian must feel Europe even if he does not leave his country. There is an incredible amount of work to be done to achieve this goal. And it's hard to change the situation in the country, but it's hard to change. And we can't figure out who's supposed to be saying, "Let's live in the era of change." Someone credits him with Confucius, someone says it's just some ancient Eastern warning. But for many of us, this fate is a happy chance not only to exist in times of change, but also to create them. And those who want and want change, and those who are willing to take part in it themselves, still more than those who fear change or just see the benefit of keeping the status quo, leave everything as it is. They are our position to change. And the driving force, the Ukrainian people, is the real political support for reforms. In Ukraine it's already formed, we've demonstrated it, a creative post-industrial class of European values: freedom, responsibility, activity. The Ukrainian Parliament has demonstrated that it has a reforming majority, and its contours do not always match the boundary between power and opposition. But this is not a negative, but when reforms are able to unite poles, especially the Ukrainian political system, which conveniently distinguishes us from our neighbours in post - Soviet space, it is the difference and presence of a strong civil society, it is an active and proactive ally of power in carrying out reforms. And in July, I brought to the Supreme Council, as an emergency, a bill to repeal the electronic declaration for public activists. I'd ask him not to make it look like the President is good, but the MPs aren't very good. I am willing to admit that the introduction of a declaration for this group was our common mistake, and mistakes need to be corrected. [[B in m in s a l in]] This year we celebrate the century of the Ukrainian National Revolution. Don't you like it? It's conscious. This is evidence of opposition. My friends! This year we celebrate the century of the Ukrainian National Revolution 1917-21. Ukraine was then unable to obtain sufficient international support and was left alone with the aggressor. That's why we're now giving so much attention to partnership with the outside world. A short-sighted, short-sighted pacifism has prevented the timely creation of a real Ukrainian army, to prepare for external aggression by the whites on the Red side. And that's why we pay so much attention to the armies. But the main thing that didn't make it possible for an independent state to become one is a lack of internal unity, of political strife. During those four years, the authorities in Kiev changed at least 14 times until finally they reached the Kremlin. What our own opposition desires. We Ukrainians have this prayer: "In unity the power of the people. God, give us unity." I often repeat her words. But there's also this saying, "Hope in God and help yourself." So I will continue to oppose all those who try to plant disorder and anarchy in Ukraine. Resist both beliefs and words and deeds. And once again, I call upon all the parties represented in the Supreme Council, the non-parliamentary parties, in the tough internal political struggle of any democracy, to consider the extremely difficult external circumstances in which you and I are building a European Ukraine together. Do you want to fight the President or the government or the majority? That's what you're up against. Please, but please don't shake Ukraine. You and I are taking care of her together. For her sake, all of us need to be united. And that's how we're going to win this together! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Let us thank the President of Ukraine and the government in charge of the Prime Minister and all those invited to participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! We continue our work. I'm asking you to stay out of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u5	Colleagues! We're moving on to the agenda. I'm asking my colleagues to stay put and we're now moving on to the first issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! We are now moving on to the first issue of the agenda, this is the Bill of Government 7052, the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Investors' Incomes in Securities. And I ask you to vote in favour of this bill for a reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. Dear colleagues, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back us up so we can make it through the day. [[11:43:01]] For-123 Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to return to their jobs. And in order for us to be able to look at the entire agenda, I'm once again voting on Bill 7052 on a reduced procedure. I ask you to vote. The Minister of Finance also asks for a simplified procedure for this fairly technical law. Please vote in favour. Dear colleagues, please support me. We're voting on the short-term procedure. Please. [[11:43:44]] For-153 Thank you so much for the constructive position. Yes, and I'm handing it over to the Head. I am requesting a report from the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Alexander Daniluk. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u7	Honorable national MPs, a significant increase in government debt and payments are a challenge for Ukraine’s financial system. As a result of socio-economic and financial instability, compounded by the occupation of Crimea and armed aggression against Ukraine, Ukraine's government debt increased more than threefold in 14-16 years and reached 69.3 percent of GDP at the end of 16. Despite the restructuring of the state and the state-guaranteed external debt in recent years, a considerable debt burden accumulated in previous years continues to exert pressure on the state budget. The heavy burden on debt payments falls to 2018 and 2021 years, including the need to pay off a large proportion of domestic borrowings made in connection with the need to capitalise NAC Naftogaz as well as state banks. In line with world practice, active government debt management operations are being used to avoid high-priced public budget charges. Such operations are completely voluntary and greatly improve investor interest and have a positive impact on the market. This, in turn, increases the liquidity of government securities. A recent example is Greece's exit to the external markets with active operations. The bill amends the Tax Code to clarify the taxation of non-residents' incomes that may result from active government debt management.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u8	30 seconds, please. Put it in 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u9	in full compliance with international practice. The adoption of this law will improve the investment attractiveness of Ukraine’s state securities to foreign investors, encourage the involvement of State budget funding at the expense of foreign investors. During his address, the President stressed the importance of adopting this law. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u10	Thank you, Your Honor. The word for the report is given to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of Nina Southanini. Mrs. Nina, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u11	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on September 5th, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Investors in Securities (Registration No. 7052), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The essence of the bill has just been presented to you by the Minister of Finance. The bill is important for involving foreign investors in government securities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of the comments made. The remark refers to a income tax that is not available in this case, or, more faithfully, non-residents are not paying income tax in this case. The review committee therefore decided: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Taxation of Non-resident Investors' Income to Securities (Registration No. 7052), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u12	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, we have to sign up for the bill now (7052). I'm asking you to sign up for factions. Please, Paul Rizanenko from the Peter Dust Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u13	Good afternoon. Congratulations, dear colleagues. The bill expands the income of nonresidents from investments that are not taxed on investment in government and municipal securities. Active legislation provides that interest and discount are not taxed, but the world of securities is changing. There are situations where there are other incomes that are unmarked directly in the law. Therefore, the bill expands the possibility of non-taxation on other types of income from investing in nonresidents in the issuance of securities. The Peter Dusty Block will support it. I understand that the Ministry of Finance, such a tool, is needed to operate on capital markets to refinance existing debt. A lot of pressure, of course, we need to stretch it in time. So I propose, and I propose that everyone else also support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u14	Thank you for your position. And now the word is given to Mr. George of Self-Help. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u15	Andrew George, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, today in Ukraine, have a model according to which income paid for government securities is tax-free. I mean, as my colleague said, percentages, discounts are now tax-free. We can talk for a long time about whether it's the right model or whether it needs to be adjusted, I think we can have a discussion here within the committee, but now there's a model like this, and the standards proposed by the Ministry of Finance, they're actually clarifying the active model, and they're talking about that along with discount tax exemptions and interest rates, other incomes will be released. As we understand from the discussion with the Ministry of Finance, this is in fact necessary to obtain positive legal conclusions and to negotiate quality with international investors, with which it is planned to exchange old government securities bonds, which, by the way, will be repaid for 2019 for the securities of the new release. So, colleagues, it's technical, it's a request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u16	Thank you for your position. Please, Alexy Rybchin of the Fatherland faction gives the word to Mrs. Alexander Kugel, from the rostrum she will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! The reference to this law applies primarily to paragraph 141, which sets out the characteristics of non-resident taxation. It is proposed that taxes be exempt from all income taxes, that there be an extension of the benefits for non-residents who receive state-owned securities transactions not only in the form of discount rates, but also from other transactions after them is that of reselling government securities into a secondary market, exchange and much more, and all speculative transactions. The proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers is contrary to the requirements of the EU Council's Rules of Procedure (No 2365), which de jure prohibits the conduct of any speculative with sovereign debts by the State of operations with private debts guaranteed by the State. We remind you that since September 1, 2017, a countdown has begun between the deadlines for adapting Ukraine's legislation to the European Union. As will be seen, the adoption of such a bill will not adapt or be able to integrate Ukraine's law into EU legislation. In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to exempt from taxation the speculative income of nonresidents with whom Ukraine has not contracted. I remind you that any income that comes from a Ukrainian origin received by non-resident legal persons is subject to taxation under the country's rules. The Fatherland faction will not vote on a bill that is corrupt and submitted by incest bankers around the Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u18	Next on the Opposition Block, Mr. Doubenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to dispel some myths about government debt. If in 2013 the amount of government debt and guaranteed government debt was 500-600 billion dollars, now 1.8 billion dollars, and it's not due to conflict, it's due to the poor and short-sighted policies of the National Bank and the real power -- that's the first. Secondly, I would like to point out, dear Ukrainians, that according to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2017, the income part is 770 billion dollars. At the same time, the money allocated this year for public debt service amounts to 242 billion dollars, that's 31 percent, you can imagine what the burden on the state of Ukraine. What's this bill about? And this bill I can tell you in a much simpler way, to make it more clear, it's confined to government derivatives. In 2015, some legislative changes were adopted by valid authorities that allow payment of certain specific securities according to gross domestic product. Accordingly, these payments are not subject to tax exemptions and this legislative initiative they propose to release foreign investors who are already holders, government derivatives of $3 billion, those are the three billion that Yatzenuk spoke of, supposedly, that they write them off so they don't pay taxes to the budget. Where's the economy? Where is the increase in investment attractiveness? I think that, at the expense of Ukrainian citizens and Ukraine, that's actually over 3.5 billion dollars of vice if the payment to the government derivative is by 2040 that's about 66 billion dollars that won't come into the budget and that's going to stay with foreign investors. Therefore, we propose and call on you not to support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! I would like to ask everyone to return to the session room because the break is official in Parliament in just five minutes. We're about to have a few more factions that haven't been able to speak in the debate, do we have a desire to join the People's Front in the Radical Party? Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Colleagues, please return to the session room, in a moment's time to vote on an important bill that was applied to both the government and the President. Please, Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The protection of foreign investors is certainly an important issue, but the main task of the Ukrainian authorities should be to create a favourable investment in the interior of the country and protect their investors when grandparents carry their savings to banks and receive income, they pay income taxes, they pay interest, foreign investors are offered to release. I don't think it's entirely fair, because it turns out that we don't protect our own, we protect our own. In front of me was the President, telling us what a great achievement a thousand 300 Lenin monuments had made, certainly an important achievement. But I would like to hear from the President how many jobs have been created for the Ukrainians, and how many people have received new jobs and decent wages to live in their own country? I would like to hear how many Ukrainians have gone abroad looking for a job there instead of working here in their home country, which is what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u22	Thank you, colleagues. I ask everyone to enter the hall, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council and all the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of deputies in the Hall to prepare for the vote. My colleagues, I'd like to inform you that I'm going to propose my long-standing idea of working without interruption. We have a day-to-day issue of codes that we have, I would like to emphasise, more than three thousand amendments, we have managed on Tuesday a thousand 700 amendments to education reform, today we have a document that has more amendments, so I will call for a vote after this bill to end the break today, and I hope that all MPs will come to this proposal with understanding. So right now, one minute, Lewchenko, and in a minute, we're going to the vote, and everyone, please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u23	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. The Minister of Finance and Government are now proposing in the Supreme Council to enact a law that will prevent certain incomes from the State's securities from being taxed, in fact, and will reduce the government budget accordingly, and allow someone to receive additional profits. It motivates the government because without it, it seems they don't want to buy our securities, so-called foreign investors. In order for such a potentially corrupt bill to be voted on, a normal national MP would first have to see evidence of what certain investors are real, real foreign investors who are willing to buy Ukrainian securities after the day after tomorrow, and the only thing that prevents them is that there is no appropriate norm in legislation. Then it would be hypothetical to vote for it, and without any such evidence to believe in an oligarchic government that may want to pay its own income.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u24	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Once again, I ask all members of the people to come into the hall. I ask you to invite all the national deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. I want to make it clear that the law that continues the judicial reform has four thousand and 383 amendments that have been rejected are more than three thousand, three thousand and 579. So today we have a hard, strained job ahead of us, so I urge everyone after this law to support the proposal to vote without. work without interruptions. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please. [[Noise Nodes]] I am now voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Investors' Income to Securities (No. 7052). I'm the first to make a proposal to the committee: to take it as a whole. If it doesn't work, I'll lay the groundwork. Please vote, please support. Please support, we vote. [[12:01:02]] For 180. The committee's proposal did not get a vote. I would like to propose the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Investors' Income to Securities, No. 7052, on a basis. Please vote, please support. Please vote on the basis. [[12:01:35]] For 208 I heard the card didn't work. I'll be back in a minute. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. I'll make a return offer. I continue for 15 minutes the right granted me by the Rules. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 7052. In a number of deputies, the card didn't work, it was obvious that it was visible. And I ask you to support the return to the vote for Bill 7052. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:02:52]] For 209 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll put it back together. Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Once again, I propose to go back to the draft Law (7052). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:03:42]] For 218. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. Colleagues, I've laid down the laws three times, all of which are, I've put three times on my way back. Colleagues, pay attention! Please take your emotions off. The issue of financial responsibility is of great importance. I'm asking you to be patient right now. That people come into the hall in front of us. Chubarov just walked in. Well, it's got to be respect for each other. It's just supposed to be understanding each other. It's a fine law. I beg you, fellow Prime Minister, one minute. Turn on the microphone. Explain, Vladimir Borisovich, the importance of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u25	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u26	Turn on the Groysman microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. This is a question that actually has an extremely serious state weight, so that we can make a re-borrow and save the state budget. These are public budget funds that work for the entire real economy, education, health care, and so on. Without voting for it, we're just starting to talk about what's worse, the better. It's totally systemic, it's the right law, it's essentially technical. So I very much ask the Ukrainian National Deputies and you, Mr. Head, to come back today and vote on it as a basis and as a whole so that, in September months, we can make a re-borrow and the main thing so that we can save the public budget for the service of government debt. Friends, it's not a matter of government or parliament, it's our common question, it's a matter of state. I very much ask for self-help, non-fractional national MPs, Fatherland, Opposition Block, distinguished colleagues, Rebirth Group, People's Will, please vote with coalition factions. Please, dear fellows! I'm counting on your support, please. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u28	Thank you! So, colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote. The prime minister of Ukraine asked Parliament to support it. As far as I know, most factions support this bill. Not everyone was in the hall, not everyone was ready to vote. And now I'm going to make an offer to come back. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Investors' Income to Securities (No. 7052). Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please vote carefully for the return, first for the return. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:07:14]] For 240 We're back. And I'm putting the committee to a vote. I'm voting on Bill 7052 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues! Every voice, we vote, fellows! Can I have your back, please? [[12:07:44]] For 236 The law is passed. Colleagues, pay attention! I now put my proposals to the vote. Don't leave the hall. Don't leave the hall, please. We've got five more minutes to go. I'm putting forward a proposal, taking into account the importance and scope of the issues before us today, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules, I propose to work today without interruptions of 12-12:30 and without interruption of 2 to 4 hours. People's deputies would like to support this proposal. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. No breaks. Let's show you the ability to work, colleagues. [[12:08:36]] For-182 All right, guys, let's do it again. I'll make another offer to work without interruption. Colleagues, back up. Please vote. Please support, let's show that the Ukrainian Parliament is set to work. Please vote for the job without interruption. Please. [[12:09:08]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Well, colleagues, we'll work all the time. With the breaks, I'm sorry, with the breaks provided for in the Rules. And I would like to point out to you that it will now be announced in accordance with the 30-minute recess rules, and after the break, we will proceed immediately to the consideration of the draft Law amending the Codes. And I ask the committee head to prepare for a long and exhausting job. And now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And I ask everyone, at 12:40 a.m. in the hall, in half an hour we will continue our not easy but necessary work for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u29	Please come into the hall. Time spent for a break is over. And, colleagues, I want you to listen to me right now. In front of us, as I was saying at the beginning of the session, a series of reforms, among them an education that we were able to accept on Tuesday, among them a pension, and a medical reform. I would like us to treat each other honestly in all these reforms. On Tuesday, when we were looking at the amendments to education, we were barely able to make it to 18:15. The vote actually took place at the time of the border. So I suggested, in my opinion, a good constructive offer to work without interruption. I'd like the national deputies to support this proposal. I want to inform you that there will be an examination of the rights when someone really needs to get out of the hall, and if he's not the author of the amendment, he'll be able to get out of the hall and come back. When you look at the right-hand side, the atmosphere in the room will be working, but the right-hand man will see that the next 10 to 15 minutes are not correcting him, he will be able to get out of the room. In order to be able to work systematically, I ask everyone to support the offer of work without interruption, colleague. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now. I'm asking everyone to prepare now to consider the matter. The committee head is ready for hard work. The committee head is ready to work without interruption in the hall, setting an example of productivity and responsibility, without sleep. And he's going to vote in favour of canceling the break. I'm asking everyone to take this responsibility so that we don't get into a situation where a small number of rights remain and the work day ends. I am therefore very much asking everyone to support this proposal, not politically, but as a proposal for a more efficient organisation of Parliament's work. And that's why I'm asking the Supreme Council apparatus to invite the deputies to the Hall. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. I'm going to make this proposal again, and I hope that all the factions of Parliament will understandably come to this vote. I promise you, from me, as the Head of the Supreme Council, it will be a full contribution to all the reforms: both medical and retirement, as you have seen, has been a full contribution to education reform. When we were able to clear up the main controversial points, find a compromise position and vote in the hall. But let's be honest with each other so that each of those reforms can give them a chance in that room to discuss and make decisions. I would like to stress to you that I have insisted that each of the reforms be considered in full procedure. It's an unprecedented time when this number of amendments is under consideration. It's unprecedented for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But we need to learn to endure such trials. Learn together by demonstrating a high political culture. Please prepare for the vote and enter the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, I'm going to ask you again how the deputies are going to go into the hall, the offer to work without interruption, and then we're going to go into the debate. Let me remind you that the draft Law on Amendments to Codes is a second reading, this decision does not require a separate procedure, it will be the head of the committee, and it will be the authors of the rights, and accordingly it will be considered. But I hope that all the national MPs will take responsibility, and everyone is now supporting the group, the entire hall, the proposal to work without interruption, and to show an example of a working parliament. Please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? There are no people, please invite people, please help someone who is not with you, dial the phone, please invite everyone into the hall, please. So, colleagues, I want to rephrase the proposal that I'm going to read. I'm going to put to the vote an offer to work without interruption from 2 to 4 o'clock. Once again, I would like to emphasize that during today's session, we will consider the amendments, and that is why it will be possible for each of the national MPs to leave the hall when necessary, to enter the hall, the work will continue. So I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, and I want to remind you that the right to this draft law is 4 thousand 383, of which 3 thousand 579 are rejected, and we have a very systematic and responsible job ahead of us. And that's why I'm going to vote on the motion to vote again and again. Please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. So the honourable national deputies, taking into account the importance and great scope of the issues before us today, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, offer to work today without interruption from 14 to 16 hours, that is to say continue our meeting until 18 hours. People's deputies would like to support this proposal. I ask all factions, regardless of political preferences, to help organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please support everyone! Please vote, vote! Please be supportive. [[12:49:43]] For-183 I'll do it again, colleagues. Once again, I put a motion to the vote as soon as I hear it, to work uninterruptedly from two to four hours. I'm asking who didn't make it into the hall, into the hall and vote. Please vote, please support the work without interruption from 2 to 4 p.m. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please support all factions. [[12:50:23]] For-188. Sadly, you do not make the decision. And we are going to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts (No. 6232). And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Allow me, first of all, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, to report to you the situation that took place at the time of the adoption of the draft law in the first reading, until this moment when we have the opportunity to consider it in the second reading. If you recall, in its decision on adoption on the basis of the bill, the Supreme Council made an unprecedented decision and first paragraph entrusted the committee, taking into account that this is essentially a bill that contains a number of other global codes and laws to prepare for the second reading all the codes and corresponding laws that emerge from the codes, as well as a separate Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. Since you know that article 4 of the Judicial Act and the Status of Judges says that any changes to it may be made only by a separate law, write separate chapters of the bill with its transitional and final positions. And now we have the right one. had a certain task for me, not a regular one that we've been working with for a few months, and I really hope that we've handled it as well as I have. What do we have as a result of this work? First, as agreed, during the first reading, a working group led by the committee was set up, without exception, by the members of the committee, representatives of the law-enforcement body, representatives of the judiciary, representatives of the Council for Judicial Reform, representatives of the government, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, directly interested in certain positions of the procedural codes, representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, representatives of the public, representatives of the expert community, representatives of the legal scientific community and a whole range of other known experts. In particular, a representative of the International Court of Arbitration and other judicial institutions, the State Judicial Administration. I'm just afraid of the entire list, maybe we shouldn't announce that someone should not miss it, but believe me, it was an extremely representative meeting, which, for almost a month, worked fairly actively in the daily regime on the very text of the bill, which was adopted in the first reading, and directly on the unprecedented number of rights that have been introduced by the subjects of the legislative initiative, namely, 4,000,384 rights, is a unique record for Ukrainian Parliamentarianism throughout the history of Ukrainian independence. And as far as I'm concerned, we did it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u31	I think, regardless of the importance of the draft law, there's a need to add two minutes to the committee's head so that he can read both the committee's decision and the committee's proposal. Please, Mr. Ruslan, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u32	I want to focus on those fundamental positions that were decided in the text of the bill and that were most, let's say, debated during the first reading of the bill. Well, first of all, we've removed the principle of legality and the principles of justice. Remember how many discussions were around this? We removed the Institute of Automatic Arrests, which also destroyed the community here, and the session hall. And we convinced everyone who was involved in the drafting of the law at least at this historic stage of this institution, because it is not perceived and it takes extra time for both society and the legal community to understand and work on the appropriate algorithm. Further, there was an extremely controversial question about the relevance of an increase in court rates. Everyone, without exception, insisted that, at this stage in these circumstances, in the context of the socio-economic crisis, it must have been inappropriate to increase the rates and the committee would have listened to that position and we decided to leave everything as it was, not to increase the rates of the court. The next issue, which was also extremely controversial, is the improvement of electronic litigation, the regulation of disqualification of judges, the question of the abuse of procedural rights. Moreover, we decided to introduce an electronic court only after a year. A year after that. The bill will become effective in order to give time and prepare appropriate programs, to ensure them, taking into account the challenges that we have, including, in the realm of viruses that prevail, and so on, to allow the community to prepare properly for the institution. Other things that I don't want to stop at all, but this is the adaptation of the Civil Service Act, which was insisted upon, for example, by a faction or a representative of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u33	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u34	And I want to tell you that some things need to be clarified, considering the following things. After his first reading, this bill was adopted. Remember, we've changed the Procurement Act, and instead of the words "state" we have to put the words "public" in the text of the bill. The same is true of the 1168 approval, the application to be sent to the complainant and the parties to the case, which is accompanied by a copy of the constitutional complaint and the documents added to it. This phrase must be taken into account. Another important moment. After the first reading of this law, we passed the Constitutional Court Act as a whole, and in the first reading, we referred to the old law. And we have an article on the subject that contained changes to the old law of 96. We propose, on behalf of the committee, that we restore it now and refer to the new law. In particular, in the following article, article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, dated 13.07.2017, issue 2136. – further the text that was, but I have to reexamine it. First, the second sentence of part three reads as follows: "The candidate for the post of Head of the Secretariat must have a higher legal education and meet the qualifications required by the Public Service Act." For those who claim to serve in the public service of category A." And paragraph 2 in part seven of the word "secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers" is replaced by the words "option of the Supreme Court." It's the right thing to do, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u35	Thank you. So, fellow right-wing authors, let's get to the bottom of this. I will, as always, declare in sequence those changes that have been rejected. Whoever insists, who insists, according to the way I raise my hand, I will give him my word. And we're going to look at the licenses. So 1 line. Sidorovich. Don't insist. 2nd Sidorovich. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 19th. 19th, right? 19th Amendment. Timoshenko and Odarchenko. Odarchenko will have the word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, a new edition of the Constitutional Court Act has recently been adopted, where, under the terms of constitutional reform, people's access to constitutional justice, there has actually been such an usurpation of power, the usurpation of the President's influence on the Constitutional Court. An appropriate competitive system was put in place, where the President had a dominant influence on the appointment of judges. A procedure has been made to deal with cases where the President also has a 100 percent impact on everything. Today's bill, which is proposed, concludes what is called the constitutional reform, where the President's 100% influence, including the Supreme Court, will be formed. Now all the judges of the Constitutional Court will be released. The President will appoint judges who are comfortable with him. In addition, he organizes a separate chamber to deal with electoral disputes. I am convinced that any election dispute will now take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u38	Any matter that will be dealt with in the electoral dispute will now be dealt with solely in the interests of the President. And that's a big danger. And I ask all deputies to be careful not to vote in favour of this law. My amendment number 19 is technical, she's in front of everyone, please vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u39	Thank you. And I want to make a message right away. Taking advantage of my right and considering the unprecedented number of rights, I ask everyone in their speeches not to go out for one minute. In exceptional cases where there is a need to conclude that I or the chairman of the meeting will add up to a maximum of 10 seconds. I'm asking you to consider this and the camera. And I ask you to take this into account for all the national MPs. Not more than 10 seconds in exceptional cases. And the next request, to speak essentially of the rights, essentially of the proposed amendment and only for that purpose can you take the word. So I'm putting to the vote Amendment 19, National Deputy Timoshenko and Odarchenka, please vote. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:02:01]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 20th, not necessarily. Twenty-one, no insistence. Twenty-two, no insistence. Twenty-four, no insistence. 26th, not necessarily. 33rd, no insistence. 34th, not necessarily. 35th, not necessarily. 36, not necessarily. He insists. 36th, Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u40	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I just want to remind all of us that just two years ago, we had Dusty behind us, and this is where Lyosha Filatov sat, and they told us that we would all be happy if we passed the law on fair trial. Two years have passed, nothing has happened, except for the increased control of Dusty over the judicial system. Sadly, this bill has the same destiny and purpose. Only an increase in the President's control over the judicial branch of power. Sadly, though, this law has raised a whole host of such issues. In particular, what does this amendment involve? It turns out that it is written that the proceedings in domestic courts are carried out in accordance with the law applicable at the time of the individual procedure. That is, imagine, a year goes by, the law will change three or four times, five times, and that will mean that the matter will be obeyed by various procedural laws! So this is completely absurd and it needs to be corrected. There can be no procedural law in place in one case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u41	Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on amendment 36 of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Voting, colleagues, determining. [[13:04:00]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 38th, not necessarily. 39th, not necessarily. 40th, insists. Please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is another example of an attempt to increase the impact of Dust on the judicial system. What are they offering us? We're offered, you know, we have a general tendency here: we're the Supreme Court, we're eliminating the Administrative Court, we're eliminating it, well, because the powder is partially there, but we're creating a Supreme Court of Intellectual Property. I mean, it's absurd. We have a general strategy for eliminating high-level specialized courts, and here, when we need to, we propose to create a higher-specialized intellectual property court. Why is this being done? In order to conduct the same competition again and again as the Supreme Court, the fully controlled Presidential Administration, Filatov will once again call the candidates to himself, they will again create a hand court to run, but now on intellectual property issues. Well, I guess Peter Alexiovich needs to be protected by the Roschen brand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u43	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 40 of the national MP Vlasenka. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. Please vote, determine. [[13:05:34]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 41st, not necessarily. 42rd, no insistence. Colleagues, I'm not going to call all the last names. 44th, not necessarily. 45th, not necessarily. What's that? 45th, this is Kiwalov. I'm afraid to say it out loud, it's Kiwalov. And 44th, Schrum. Scram – author. Well, that's what I'm saying: 44th, Scrum. My colleagues, indeed, have written Shkrum. Maybe you had a group of authors, me. Excuse me? There's a group of authors. All right, please, Eutuszek, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u44	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would now like to address the head of the committee. You know, it's just that, you know, it's kind of like, you know, you know, you know, it's like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you're like, you know, you know, you know, you're like, you know, you know, you're like, you know, you're like, you know, you're like, you're like, you know, you're like, you know, you're like, you're I'm sure you're there in principle in power, in opposition. Yeah, you're opposition MPs, but you've been denied corrections. I want to say that we heard a speech today that was being delivered, as the President said, to other leaders, including the spiritual ones, where the justice system is fixed. In fact, however, this system is being installed, and it is being installed under a certain subject of authority. It seems to me that by voting today without change all that was done in the first reading, which is what it looks like, because the major changes to the second reading are completely unprepared, you're just going to mount a system of things under your control. And the paper says that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u45	I put to the vote the amendment of 44 groups of national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, keep your hands where I can see them, head of the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:08:03]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next 45th. Don't insist. 46th. Don't insist. 47th. Don't insist. 48th. He insists. Please, Vlasenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, on the one hand, it would seem that a fairly correct rule has been laid out that if the law or contract does not determine an effective way of protecting a violated right or interest, then the court must determine how to defend such a right. It's a perfectly correct concept, but, colleagues, it's right, but it's not exactly in our Ukrainian reality. So let me tell you how this rule is going to be used. It's very simple: the court will decide everything as it wants, it won't pay attention to the law, because even if there's a legal way of protecting a violated right, the court will write: and this is an ineffective way, I'm applying another, and so on. So, unfortunately, in our unreformed system today, the system that is now completely under the political influence of Dusty is, unfortunately, such a proper, microsurgery tool must be given so far prematurely. So speaking of that it's the right idea, but now it's impossible to apply it, now, under the present conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u47	Let's put to the vote the amendment of 48 deputies of Vlasenka. Please make up your mind. [[13:09:43]] For-63 63. Let's move on. Amendment number 52, Leuchenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u48	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, one of the basic logics of this so-called reform is essentially bringing our judicial system, well, into a very similar mechanism of work like the Anglo-Saxon judicial system in Britain and the United States. It's like there's a precedent law and so on. Although we don't have it all. This is also true when the court is given the right to determine the form of protection that is not provided for by law or contract. This means that the court will make decisions outside the legislative framework that regulates the protection of civil rights and the interests of the individual. This means, in fact, that the court is empowered by a regulatory body that does not comply with the legal nature of the court, which the law enforcement body exercises justice in accordance with the first part of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Accordingly, this rule violates the Constitution of Ukraine. This rule allows the courts to essentially write laws on their knees. It's totally unacceptable. This is a further strengthening of the judicial system, which is controlled by the full executive branch of power in Ukraine. It's gotta be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u49	We vote in favour of amendment 56 Lechchenka. [[13:11:17]] Z-62 Colleagues, I talked about it, it was 52 amendments. Excuse me, please. That was the 52th Amendment. Next, 53rd, Scrum. Don't insist. 56th, Lechchenka. Now 56th. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The proposal for a bill on the creation of the so-called electronic court is pointless. Since much of Ukraine’s citizens are deprived of the possibility of using new information technology, unfortunately not having access to the Internet, most citizens will have to go to court in paper form and thus simplify the full court rate for such an appeal. Moreover, this inequality with a significant increase in the rates of the court, although it is generally said that they will not increase them, let's see now, is virtually impossible to access the justice of a large number of citizens, which is a violation of the individual's constitutional right to judicial protection guaranteed by article 55 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. It should also be noted that the Court of Electronic Justice does not correspond to the publicity and openness of the trial as the main principles of judicial action. Please take my amendment into account and remove the relevant standards from the bill in force, from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u51	Now we're voting for 56 amendments to Lechchenka, please. [[13:12:41]] For-61 Next 57th, Timoshenko. Please, the microphone. A card, please, a card in the remote, once again, just insert the card again, there could just be a little bit of a malfunction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u52	Fatherland Party, Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! As society is looking forward to a truly unfaithful reform of justice, perhaps they do not expect even a higher salary because the injustice of the courts, the corruption of the courts, the political dependence of the courts in Ukraine has simply reached such limits as is noticeable to the whole world. And I can say that, unfortunately, this reform not only does not solve the issue of creating a just system of justice, it really confuses all procedures, it makes people even more unjust than they have been before, it gives political leaders the full possibility to manage the system manually, it robs people of equality, it shuts down access to justice for poor people. Therefore, it is a chaos to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u53	You insist on the vote, 57th, the vote, the amendment, you just didn't hear it. [[13:14:34]] For-66 66. Next, 59th, Timoshenko. Please, the microphone. 59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u54	I'd like to continue. The fact is that even now the poorest are separated from the judicial system by the contributions, the payments to be made. This bill further strengthens the isolation of people from the justice system, whether they are rich or not. I'm talking about the low qualification of these bills because even today more than one and a half thousand rights have been introduced. Because the various parts of this bill are balanced, they don't come together and they bring chaos, which will first limit human rights, the possibility of access to justice, the justice of the court itself. And as a result, this will mean that people will not get the desired justice from the Ukrainian judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u55	59 amendment, we vote. No, it's your amendment, we're voting it, it's not a confirmation, it's a vote. [[13:15:59]] For-55 55 votes, not supported. Moving on: 64 amendments, Timoshenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u56	I would like to continue the analysis of this bill, and I would like to refer to the draft law that we are currently considering, which has been done by the appropriate authorities of the Supreme Council. So I can say that the observation from just one government that I have now in my hands on 54 pages and every page is dedicated to the fact that these laws narrow down the constitutional rights of people, that this law that we are currently considering is essentially contrary to the basic principles of the Constitution, violates human freedom, human rights. And I think, if you ignored these conclusions of professional people who lead and work in the administrations of the Supreme Council, it says that they want to contradict this bill in any way, and thus, in fact, permanently restrict the justice system from human beings.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u57	Vote 64 of the amendment. [[13:17:31]] For-66 Let's move on. Amendment 74, Timoshenko. Please. I already announced 74th, then we'll come back. 74th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u58	Tymoshenko, Vlasenko repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u59	Oh, yours. Please, I didn't hear Hairy's microphone. Please. The owner will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Well, in fact, this group of amendments has to do with narrowing the rights of citizens. What are they offering us? We're offered in electronic court mode, if a person has once registered in a single system then all documents are sent by e-mail only, without duplicating them in paper form, even if a participant insists that he wants these documents in paper form. This will lead to very simple things, we're talking today about what the biggest abuse in the judicial system is interference with electronic systems. They're just about to start sending court documents, sorry for the slang expression "to the village of grandpa" to an electronic unknown address, please submit documents that they're supposed to have informed everyone and listen to cases even when a participant in the process requires getting documents first in paper form. I agree with previous colleagues who also mentioned our Ukrainian situation with Internet access that works today, tomorrow doesn't work, today I can open an email, tomorrow I can't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u61	74 amendment, please specify. [[13:19:13]] For-69 69 votes. Next, 87, Timoshenko, Odarchenko. MP Odarchenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u62	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, some time ago, the president of this rostrum told us fervently that the constitutional reform, which will ensure people's access to justice, has been initiated and is about to be implemented. In this law we see his sincere desire to realize. We see that access to justice is severely restricted. I don’t want to raise questions about the material costs of people who have to go to court, which is worth one court meeting worth a thousand 600 dollars. Now, under this law of extermination of any paper, consideration of any material, it's going to need human compensation for these expenses. The process of handling matters is so organized that it does not give a person the opportunity to consider his or her case if it is not of interest to the authorities. I ask you to put my amendment to the vote, it concerns these issues and to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u63	87 amendment, we vote. [[13:20:49]] For-64 64 votes. Next, 93rd, Timoshenko, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u64	89th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u65	I've already announced 93, then we'll come back. 93rd, please, Timoshenko, Vlasenko. 80. Excuse me, yes, 89th, I'm sorry, 89th. National MP Vlasenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u66	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. The next situation, once again, is the minor inaccuracies that simply overcrowded this law, the possibility of people either getting a fair, fair, just, legitimate solution, or getting any access to the materials of the case. The article is completely formal about paper being kept. The only thing that's not clear is where they're stored, how they're stored, what period they're stored for, and what with them, and whether it's permanent storage. Or one day after the announcement of the decision, more faithfully, after the decision has passed the final agency, these documents may be destroyed, if they are destroyed after the average term of the charge has ended, or if they are never destroyed. This is not solved by this article, and this will lead to some problems in getting copies for some of the possibilities of getting acquainted with the material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u67	89 amendments shall be voted on. [[13:22:29]] For-60 Next 93rd, National Deputy Vlasenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u68	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Well, once again, we're offered a single court information telecommunications system, a position to approve it by the High Council of Justice. I want to remind you that today, perhaps this would be the right norm in a democratically normal civilised society. But to this day the Higher Council of Justice is fully privatized by Peter Prashenko. There are boys who not only carry the portfolio behind Peter Alexiyovich but who carry the portfolio behind those who carry the portfolio behind Peter Alexiovich, but who do well to follow all the instructions they receive. There was a complete scandal over the election of delegates from those subjects who today represent someone on the Supreme Council of Justice and actually represent Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Therefore, under the appearance of depoliticization of the judicial system, we are offered full control by Dusty and his environment over the Supreme Council of Justice, and through it, by the entire judicial system. Therefore, the Supreme Council should approve such strategic matters as those concerning the One Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u69	93 amendment, we vote. [[13:23:58]] For-61 The next 99 amendments. Hairpiece, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, once again, we're going back to the deep strategic question that will definitely touch every Ukrainian or theoretically can touch every Ukrainian. This is about the possibility of arresting funds. Regrettably, the mechanisms that are proposed in this law, although they have been slightly changed in preparation for the second reading, but they do not provide security for Ukrainian citizens in that their funds cannot suddenly be arrested by a court decision even without reporting them. Because we'd be looking at previous revisions where we're all going to be electronic, where we don't have to send people paper calls and so on, and so on and so forth. And all these restrictions will lead people to fall into a series of traps that will simply arrest their property without their knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u71	The 99th amendment shall be voted on. [[13:25:18]] For-56 Next, 108th, Eutusek, Yvchenko. Which one of you? Eutushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u72	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to address Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch as chairman of the committee. Please tell me, why don't you comment on our changes first? Well, the normal process that you try to narrow down and not let go of individual categories, we have specifically prescribed in our work. In the 108th right, in the first part of article 8, we write that after the words "equality of all natural persons" were added by the words "including natural persons entrepreneurs." What was the point of the committee rejecting the amendment? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u73	Vote, please, 108th Amendment, Your Honor. And of course we want to thank our colleagues that they are absolutely giving information about their amendments, that the room is clear. Please, the 108th Amendment. It is his right, but it is not his duty. We got it. [[13:26:32]] For-48 Next amendment, please 110 Mr. Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u74	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. The only thing I don't want is for the adoption of such an important law for Ukrainian society to become a proponent. I understand that most of the powdery majority on the committee did what they wanted. The committee heads are now unable to comment. It is wrong to discuss such important laws. I realize that we are currently discussing the Master’s Procedural Code, but a whole group of further amendments will have to do with limiting the presence of citizens and limiting the transparency of the trial. But, in particular, this article suggests that those who wish to be present in court are allowed into the courtroom only for the availability of seats! So now the courts are going to start hearing cases in three square meters and they're going to say, look, there are no seats available, so no one can be allowed into the courtroom. I understand that when we, the opposition MPs, did not let Timoshenko on the case, motivated by the same thing, Dustyenko was sitting in the Yanukovich government and he didn't really care about it, he doesn't really understand it. And the boys who prepared this project were doing the same thing. But it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u75	110 revisions. Vote, please. We follow the rules and discuss each amendment carefully. Each author has the right to announce it. [[13:28:01]] For-58 Please, next 111, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u76	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Now, Mrs. Irina, you're the presiding officer, I'm addressing you personally. Please tell me, we were in Russia in the courts where some of the activists there were making aunts, filling the courtroom, and we weren't able to go to that famous court, and I'm not going to call that. Both in Basmann and Rostov and Don. But please tell me. Now, we're prescribing an amendment. Part three of the paper reads: "Those who wish to be present at a court hearing shall be allowed without hindrance by the court order to the courtroom for the availability of vacant seats before the commencement of a court hearing or during a recess. In the event that those wishing to be present at a court hearing are far more than the court court hearing is possible, the Registrar shall report it to the presiding officer. The court, in order to ensure the transparency of the process, accepts the approval of broadcasting." Could there be such a precedent in our country when we see a completely usurped system from both the committee and the other subjects?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u77	Thank you. We are now voting in favour of amendment 111, and we are determined by voting after such an important explanation. Please, please, 111 revisions. I am determined by my vote on my attitude toward the amendment. [[13:29:31]] For-54 112 amendment, Mrs. Schrum. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u78	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. First, I want to go back to the question of why it's important for the committee head to comment on the amendments. Because, as you remember, in the first reading of the amendments that we have now made regarding the automatic arrest of funds in the person's accounts, they were presented in the first reading by the President's Administration and the President himself, and they anticipated the possibility of automatic arrest of funds in debt accounts, for example for non-payment of electricity, for debts for non-payment of gas tariffs that are totally corruptible. And during the tough debates, we made these changes, and on the committee, we made them. So it's very important for the committee head to confirm in his comments that anywhere within 2,000 pages and 1,500 rights of the next one, there will be no automatic cost in the accounts. Why we ask these comments to be heard in the transcripts of the meetings. And as for my work in 112, it's really said that only in the presence of vacant seats will people be allowed to attend open court. I think it's absolutely not a democratic thing, because we know cases where in resonance cases, both political and not just political, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u79	We vote for the 112 amendment that the committee rejected. We have a lot of changes, I want us all to make it. Please, 112 revisions. Vote. [[13:31:08]] For-50
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u80	This is the right but not the responsibility of the committee head. The committee rejected that decision. Please. Well, there's no such thing in the Rules. There is no such thing in the Rules. Please, next amendment to 113, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is only possible to restore confidence in the judicial system by honest, legal, just judicial decisions, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by maximum transparency and control on the part of society and the public. Otherwise, unfortunately, nothing will happen. But we do have a series of articles that limit the possibility. Here we have discussed an article that allows us only to enter freely. I said how it's going to be, they're going to listen in cells three meters and they're going to say there's no place. But there is another point when a judge removes a person from the courtroom, so that person receives no document, and this is practically never reflected in the records, and the person does not know how to charge it, how to fight it. My colleagues from Fatherland can tell you a lot about this to Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko, who doesn't know these nuances, who was sitting in the warm chair of the economy minister and increasing his own wealth when we were thrown into prison. We know what it is to engage in politically motivated processes. We know how they kicked us out of there, how they wouldn't give us protocol. That's why we don't want every citizen to be able to do that right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u82	113 revisions. Vote. [[13:32:38]] For-64 115th, Scrum. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u83	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I'll go back to what I said before. Friends, when we forbid those who want to take part in the case and those who want to be really present at the open court, and we forbid being there and saying that only in the presence of free seats can this happen, it reminds me, unfortunately, of my very unpleasant experience of being and visiting the courts in the Russian Federation, when absolutely fine persons were filling the courtroom specifically to prevent interested persons from attending this meeting. And we certainly don't need to set an example and have nothing to do with the Russian Federation, so I'm proposing "for free seats" to remove from this bill altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u84	We're voting for the 115th amendment. [[13:33:47]] For-73 118 amendment, national deputy Shkrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u85	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u86	118th, no insistence. Thank you. 120th, Vlasenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u87	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I insist on all my amendments. Well, you know, once again, this amendment block is linked to both transparency and transparency and openness. Once again, it is impossible to restore confidence in the judicial system in the situation in which it is currently in existence without an open, public trial. So any attempt to harm, narrow down the possibility of the trial being public and transparent is totally unacceptable. In some of his oral comments, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Here you are, Irina Volodymyrna, saying that she does not want to comment on the head of the committee. The committee head comments, but for those MPs who sit in the front row and hear that. So that's the situation. He says that similar standards are in the law in force. But, sir, the committee head, well, we're even doing reform here, not conserving what's in the law. So I have a huge request to support 120 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u88	We're voting for 120 amendments. Please, Your Honor. We're putting all of Mr. Vlasenko's amendments in place, and without even focusing on the author's attention. [[13:35:22]] For-67 The committee head is communicating, not commenting. Let's move on. 121st, Eutusek. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u89	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mrs. Irina, well, please, it seems to me that the head of the committee, well, he just wants to comment on those changes, and you've usurped the presidency now, and you're not letting him do it. Well, excuse me, please. Let him comment on the papers, the more Vlasenko is a very professional lawyer. Do you really think he worked there for hours and weeks so that you wouldn't even let the committee head comment? I request your permission to put to the vote number 121.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u90	Under the Rules, we put amendment 121 to the vote. Please. I don't look like a usurper, believe me. [[13:36:17]] Z-62 The chairman of the committee shall keep a voice for the closing word. 123 amendment, national deputy Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u91	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u92	Don't insist. Vlasenko, 124th. He insists on his amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u93	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I say again, I'm so impressed that we know in this way, in this kind of artificial way, we're looking at this bill. You know, there was this resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on "To combine political and criminal responsibility," where European Council of Europe's rapporteur Peter Omzig noted that Ukrainian authorities are using processes that are externally democratic but not democratic -- this was the case with the trial of Timoshenko. But what I'm trying to say right now is that that's what's happening to me right now. As for the 124th amendment, it turns out that we have a court that can determine where people are meeting, who are taking pictures and videos. I emphasize once again, you know, we, on our skin in politically motivated processes, not only the politically motivated Tymoshenko process, but also in the politically motivated Jura Lucenka process, which has already forgotten about it, have certainly fought for us to be able to fix from all places of the courtroom the course of this abuse of justice. And now you're going down Yanukovic's path and you're limiting the ability to fix the trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u94	We're voting for the 124th amendment. Please, colleagues, vote for an explanation that has just been made. Please. [[13:37:59]] For-75 125th, Yvchenko. Please, microphone to the national deputy Eutushka. Yes, Eutusek, Yvchenko and Krulko. Eutushka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u95	Now I realize that you won't be able to comment again, actually the right is so tiny and one that didn't make a big one, let's say a big one to write it. Just in part seven before the word "translation," we added the word "direct broadcast," but the committee even rejected this amendment, that we're just asking to add the word "direct broadcast." Well, what was the committee's direction? I don't understand. I just want the whole Ukrainian people to understand what's going on in this room right now. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u96	Vote for Amendment 125, please. The chairman, by the way, cannot force a court-martialed committee head to stand. And this is his duty, this is his right, not his duty, the committee has decided he's against it. [[13:39:00]] For-64 126 amendment, Timoshenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u97	I would now like to address the citizens of Ukraine, so look at the bill that we are currently discussing on a key, life-important subject, reforming the courts. Look, please, the "Fatherland" Party has worked out this bill and made all the amendments that this piece of legislation actually protects people's rights, justice courts, open courts and courts that will give people justice and justice. So the amendments that remove the total inadmissibility of this law of human rights violations now vote in Parliament 60-70 deputies for these amendments, the empty hall, the MPs don't care at all. Because there's a contractor, when all the amendments go through, there's going to be a "sir mass" again, and the buttons are going to go through this law, which is actually making the courts that they are today even worse. That's what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u98	126 amendment, please vote. [[13:40:30.]] For-67 128th, Vlasenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u99	Thank you. Colleagues, look what they're offering us, if the court finds that the photo, film, television or video, as well as the broadcast of the trial on radio and television, on the Internet, hinders the course of the trial, the court may prohibit or restrict the execution of the trial, which is determined by the reasoned approval. People, what are we voting for? What is it? This is a complete restriction on the publicity of the trial, such judges. judges like Chaus, who are working for Peter Dustenk today, breaking the law, closing their eyes on human rights, you give them the right at any time to accept conditionally motivated approval, of course, I emphasize, motivated approval and allowing them to stop or prohibit video fixation of the trial by the parties to the trial. So we go back to the 37th year or I'm sorry, to fascist Germany in 33rd year, what is that? What is it? And there will be no discussion again, the committee head will say nothing again, Irina Volodymyrically, will vote and will say, I am not a usurper.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u100	128th Amendment, after clarification, please. [[13:42:00]] For-82 130 revisions, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u101	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Chairman, give some chair or something to the committee head, his legs are already aching. I now want to say that, in his speech and address today, the President of Ukraine has in no way said that in this judicial reform of the system, there are some judges who have been working since that time who have usurped power for Yanukovich's benefit when they have been renamed. We've seen the Attorney General's application on. There are other subjects when there were ministers of Lavrinovich and others, but we do not see, again, those judges who work to this day. We realize that it is most likely that the same judges will continue to work in these courts and will continue to serve President Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u102	We're voting for 130 revisions. [[13:43:14]] For-74. Ah, 131 repairs, Schrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u103	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, look what happens if you don't support my amendment that I didn't support, unfortunately, the committee. We're going to have part eight, part nine, as follows: "If the court finds that a photo, film, television, video borrowed from a court hearing on radio or television or on the Internet violates the rights and legitimate interests of the parties and impedes the proceedings, the court may prohibit and restrict the conduct of the proceedings." What is a hindrance to the trial? Colleagues, this is a very appreciable concept for today we have confidence in the judicial system at zero. According to statistics, 9 percent more citizens of Ukraine believe in life on Mars than in an honest Ukrainian court. Well, what are we doing with you? How can we say that those judges who are still working since Yanukovich's time, who have electronic declarations for millions of assets, will think that something is hampering the course of the trial and limiting video transmissions, photocasts, webcasts, well, colleagues, after Maidan you can't really talk about it without shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u104	131 amendment, please. [[13:44:40]] For-82 Ichchenka’s 132th Amendment Yes, do you take the floor? No, it's not. Thank you. Let's move on. Schrum, 134th. No, it's not. Vlasenko, 135th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u105	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. What are they offering us? In fact, there has never been a so - called written conduct in the business process. What Is the Writing of Conduct? Written conduct is when without people, without the participation of the judge, without listening to anyone, only, on the condition that the available documents make a decision is not known when, in a closed mode, it is, of course, closed, because it is written conduct. He's not talking about hearing the case, he's doing something to himself. And now they're telling us what.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u106	Vote. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u107	No, I'm not done yet. And now we're told that this is the norm that needs to be applied in the agricultural process. We see the consequences of written conduct in the constitutional process, when now 90 percent of cases are being heard without sides in thousands of offices. And then there's just some people in the mantles who somehow think that they're judges, that they're announcing some kind of Bellyberd, like what's next, another session is every next session, and they think it's a judicial decision and that it's a rule of law in the state. The same mechanism is offered to us at Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u108	135 amendment, we vote. [[13:46:19]] For-65 Let's move on. 136th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Scram, 137th. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 138th. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u109	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrna, for not even raising your head, you know I'm going to announce my amendment. I want to point out that actually 138 amendments apply. She's so clever on one hand, because, in this final edition, the committee suggests to us the following, that the court, in the course of the court's trial, is making full determination of his course. It's supposed to be true, but it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. They're once again, when the judge thinks it's not necessary to do that, like it could be done. So this is once again a decrease in the volume of the trial or the possibility of such a decrease. It's a reduction in the ability to establish a trial, it's an opportunity to reduce the publicity of the trial. I would feel that this is unacceptable in Ukraine after 2014. But today the President told us about possible rematches. What a hell of a rematch of regionals! We have the President, the Minister of Economics of the government of Yanukovic, the Minister of Finance, is former chief financier of Ahmetova. What are we talking about? Rematch has already taken place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u110	138 amendments, please. [[13:47:54]] For-57 The next 140 is the amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u111	Thank you, thank you, colleagues. Once again we are restricted, as Ukrainian citizens, as possible consumers of these judicial services, these judicial money. Once again, we are confined to receiving, receiving protection, and receiving materials of criminal conduct. They don't even allow it, they don't even allow the participants to claim the issue of technical protection. I mean the additional problems associated with the technical record.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u112	It's a criminal process, it is. [[do not hear]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u113	I say trouble. How criminal? Nobody's talking about a criminal trial, Mr. Ruslan. You must have heard something. But I say again, we're being deprived of the ability to fix the trial, sorry if I said criminal. The trial, of course. It's a master's process. The economic process, of course. We're being prosecuted for written conduct, we're being restricted to citizen participation in court proceedings, we're not allowed to issue paper documents, we're not allowed to require additional technical fixations, which is a direct restriction on freedom of speech, it's a trend towards freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u114	Vote Amendment 146. [[13:49:26]] For-60 The next 147th National Deputy Vlasenko. A microphone, please. We just voted 146th. And now we're voting 147th. Yeah! I'm sorry. Colleagues, we've just voted, we've rejected the 140th amendment more faithfully. And now 146th and 147th, National Deputy Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, there is a restriction on the rights of persons whose rights have been dealt with in a court decision, either in a court decision or in another court decision. If the court has decided the issue of the rights and obligations of a person or has touched on the rights and obligations of a person who has not taken part in the proceedings, this person should have the full range of rights of the party to the trial, not just a limited list of them, unknown to whom and unknown as being established. If the court has decided on my colleague Ruslan Knazević's question without having him brought to trial, he must have all the rights indicated for the relevant party. Then the standard proposed by the committee for second reading needs to be laid out in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u116	146th Amendment. Vote. [[13:51:04]] For-57 147th Amendment. Please. The owner announces it, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u117	Thank you. Once again, colleagues, I reiterate, unfortunately, this whole bill is aimed at restricting, narrowing down the rights of the parties to the process to create procedures that are not clearly stated, not clearly established, with limited lists that will not allow people to defend their rights, (people and legal persons, as I can now be corrected by the head of the committee, because it is an economic process), and legal persons to defend their rights in appropriate, appropriate judicial procedures. Once again, I point out that this law is aimed at one thing, certainly not at creating a real effective system of judicial protection of violated rights. It's directed at something else, to create some kind of closed caste that will allow any decision to be made, including the agreement of the current President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u118	147 revisions. Vote. [[13:52:17]] Z-62 I'm continuing my morning session for 15 minutes, considering that we have a lot of amendments to the National Deputy Vlasenko. And 151 amendments, Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u119	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues! In general, it is not clear why this law excludes information about registration numbers from court decisions made publicly available. Why would you do that? Now, that's the number of accidents that have resulted in a large number of deaths. On the contrary, this information needs to be disclosed in order to prevent, prevent, and prevent people who violate traffic rules from doing so. The authors have somehow closed this information down. That doesn't even make sense. Because if people are present at an open trial, they can get that information there. Why are you doing this? Our edit makes this information open. We insist that it be voted in, and information on transport numbers has been made available. This is also necessary when buying and selling cars. This will help people to know whether or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u120	151 revisions. Vote. [[13:53:55]] For-58 Next, 153rd, Vlasenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u121	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. In fact, this amendment is technical in nature, but it absolutely does not cancel the general trend that is inherent in this law, which, once again, I emphasize, is directed and adopted for the sole purpose. By the way, I'd like to propose to everyone exactly one year after the adoption of this law to hold parliamentary hearings and see how this law is done. Because I have this impression, I know exactly what the voting arrangements are for this law, and this law will be adopted in the same way as the committee proposes. But let's meet in a year and talk about whether confidence in the judicial system has been restored, whether there have been some fundamental qualitative changes, or whether we have done the same thing with the Fair Court Act, when Prašenko just formed the High Council of Justice, and nothing more for the common people in our country in terms of the judicial system has changed. And I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u122	153 revisions. Vote. [[13:55:12]] For-63 Next up is 158th, Lehchenko. Please, your microphone. Helen, you don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u123	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. You know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now, well, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and about a third of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now considering this terrible bill for an hour and a half. And while we're still looking at it all day, we can figure out some of these things that have now been highlighted. It was emphasized that judges were given the opportunity to write laws on their knees. The emphasis was on allowing video and audio to be banned in the courts and essentially closed down the courts from the public. They stressed the introduction of the so - called electronic judiciary, through which all documents could be sent, as they say, to outer space is unknown, and they would not receive them properly, and would then say that the decision had already been made. Yeah? Such interesting things, in fact, have already been emphasized by the Supreme Council. And that's just the beginning. This is just the beginning. This was just considered by 150 amendments with a few thousand. That's why I'm addressing conscious national MPs. Think, though, before voting in general for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u124	158 amendments shall be voted on. Please. A total of 158 amendments are being voted on. [[13:56:42]] For-56 164th Vlasenka. Microphone, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already announced, then I'll be back, Helen, after this. 164th Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u125	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. But see what we're offered, colleagues? We are invited by the committee if the court concludes that the law or other legal act is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the court does not apply such law or other legal act, but applies the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine as a direct act. This means that tomorrow there will be 9,000 constitutional courts in Ukraine that will determine what laws are constitutional, which laws are unconstitutional, and so on. So essentially, ships are given absolutely, not that it's inherent, but a function that doesn't belong to them at all. To this end, the Constitutional Court is the sole court of constitutional jurisdiction, which is the only one authorized under the Ukrainian Constitution to formally declare acts of any kind unconstitutional. So they're offering us a very anti-constitutional norm, and now we're going to be in charge of it. You'll vote for her. So this is complete absurdity and ignorance, passed on to the courts absolutely incompetent functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u126	164 revisions. Vote. [[13:58:07]] Z-62 Mrs. Olena, what was that about?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u127	Confirm. 160 amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u128	Now, just a minute. Wait a minute, now. 160 revisions. The microphone is Captain. It's for confirmation. This is Janick's amendment, which the committee took into account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u129	Self-help faction, Olena Sotnik. Unfortunately, I agree with all the previous colleagues: to vote in favour of the amendments in this room, when he listens to about 30 people, and he votes at the top of 50, it's totally pointless, and it's actually the abuse of the legislative process and, in principle, of the essence of parliamentaryism. So I'm going to focus more on the amendments that at least somehow can be reversed, because they are finally bringing down all the good that even today is in progress. I want to tell you that you're closing the volume of judges, that's the worst thing you could have done. In fact, Prašenko sold all court reform, primarily on the basis of the transparency and openness of trials. You destroyed it by these laws. You've ruined it with this bill. In this case, I ask for confirmation of the amendment because it abolishes, as a source of law, the Convention on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u130	We vote in favour of 160 amendments supported by the committee. Please make up your mind. The committee's asking her to support it. Please. [[13:59:49]] For-47 I've already gone on for 15 minutes. 166 amendment, national deputy Eutuszek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u131	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, I've got this idea that I probably should be looking at these kinds of bills? It's supposed to be a festival, a full hall of people, everyone should be working. Where are the national deputies? We are hungry, and there is no longer such fundamental reform as to which to work. I want to say that whatever it is, but shutting down the courts from the public, putting in a lawsuit for people who are just out of proportion with their assets, it's just unrealistic. Please put the order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u132	Vote 166 of the amendment. [[14:00:52]] For-59 168th People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u133	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, I don't know if Janukovich's house is now being broadcast directly by the Supreme Council, where he lives there, Moscow or Rostov, but I think if he's looking at it, he's wondering why I didn't come up with this. Well, actually, there's nothing strange about it, but his people, Portnov and all the others, are involved in writing these documents, so-called documents. Here, think about what they're up to. They came up with the idea that any court could, on the basis that they decided that some law did not fit the Constitution, without a decision by the Constitutional Court, without a decision by the Constitutional Court, the court decided that the law did not correspond to the Constitution and made the relevant decision, so it just came up with uninteresting laws. Moreover, these rules stipulate that only if the Constitutional Court found the law unconstitutional and not constitutional, it would not be possible to review the decision accordingly. Well, they're just giving the courts such crazy powers that I'm saying Janukovic is probably crying right now in Rostov or Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u134	Thank you for your emotional performance. 168 amendments, please. [[14:02:24]] For-60 169 amendment, national deputy Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u135	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, what my colleagues and Mr. Levchenko have just talked about, and Mr. Vlasenko, and Mr. Eutuszek are really a very, very important story. And it's very important, I want to explain again to the audience and to those who listen and watch. Now, if the court, any court, the Master's, another court, finds that he thinks that this law violates the Constitution of Ukraine, he may not use this law in making decisions. At the same time, it is totally in line with the rule of law, when only the Constitutional Court can decide whether this law is constitutional, whether it violates the Constitution or not, how this is going to happen, it is absolutely legal nihilism. And so I propose and demand that this rule be excluded from this law. And before that, we have to remember how the Constitutional Court Act has been adopted in a completely unconstitutional way, unfortunately, and how usurpatory authorizations are now given to Dustenk to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court. And as the law was signed, unfortunately, by Mr. Speaker the second day after the vote, although my decision to declare the vote invalid was registered and it is also a violation, and unfortunately it is also a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u136	169 amendments shall be voted on, please. [[14:03:54]] For-57 177 amendment, People's Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u137	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, the role of the Supreme Court after judicial reform, is to ensure the unity of judicial practice and it is very important that we often refer to the American judicial system that is being held up, which is why it works well that there is a uniformity of judicial practice. This law destroys such approaches, allowing different courts to make diametrically opposite decisions. Perhaps this is done deliberately in order that if a decision is to be made, it will be made irrespective of the time taken to make the opposite decision. Honorary colleagues, by law, propose that article 12 of the Code be supplemented by the provisions under which the courts are obliged to apply, namely, to apply rather than to take into account the position of the Great Court of Justice as well as the court of appeal in the Supreme Court. This will allow us to form a single court practice that will gradually do ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u138	177 amendments, please. Vote 177. [[14:05:26]] Z-62 174 amendments, Sidorovich, we're coming back, we just don't see the first rows of Self-Help from the rostrum, please, Sidorovich, 174th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u139	Thank you for your word. I will immediately make three amendments: 174th, 175th and 176th, because they're completely interconnected. Unfortunately, in this bill, due to the speed of its preparation, there are a number of correct concepts that are completely wrong in order, which may lead to an entirely incorrect application in the future. What is the point in this case? The court should apply the analogy only after it is not possible to apply the analogy of the law. In addition, the question relates to formulations, since the legal purity of the formulation of appropriate definitions is equally important in order to be able to obtain a just decision after the finish line. In this case, therefore, part nine, part ten, and part eleven of article 12, as proposed by the representatives of our faction, are required.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u140	I'm just putting 174 amendments in line, we're voting, please. I thank you for the constructive position that you've all sounded together. Vote 174. Vote. Please. We vote and thank you that Mr. Sidorovich explained immediately three amendments we vote in turn. [[14:07:10]] For-67 Next 175. Please vote. She was rejected by a committee. [[14:07:27]] For-69 And the next 176. Please. If anyone wants to explain a few amendments in one minute, do not be shy, please. We're not waiting for anything under the Rules, we're going under the Rules. [[14:07:43]] For-66 Next amendment to the Rules is the 179th People's Deputy Vlasenka. Please. Julia Volodymyr, please. In July, Volodymyrno microphone 179th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u141	I would now like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian society, as the pro-European Democrats, who came to the higher positions of the State after the Dignity Revolution as they destroyed total parliamentaryism, I have not seen in Parliament for the first year before, when a completely unsettled discussion of drafts stands on the stand of the committee's head, who is obliged to give every right to explain it to him turned off the microphone and he stands and smiles, not taking part in the process, but behind the scenes completely negotiated, where individual factions have spent money on the budget for the fact that they will come and press the button behind this mess, which today will become the Law on Justice Reform. As for correction, punishment, I would like to draw your attention to part two of article 13. It's about a simplified case procedure where there's no concre.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u142	Vote 179, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u143	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u144	We don't have it. Ten seconds. Ten seconds, please, ten seconds. Well, I'm going to the Rules, and we've got a minute to talk about the amendment, and I can't break the Rules. Please vote 179. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u145	I ask you to note that this is fundamental corruption for the judicial system in this law. Because it is said that orderly conduct can take place with regard to the collection of minor sums of the game.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u146	Thank you. I want to say that one minute was given to explain the correction. You've dedicated it to political statements, too. I'm sorry, of course. We are voting for 179 amendments now. If you make an amendment yourself, that's enough time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u147	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u148	According to the Rules, the amendments, the amendments, not the regime, and so forth, are political statements. [[14:10:16]] For-54 180th. Please, Eutusek. Ivchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u149	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Chairman, I would like to remind you of the rule that you do not have the right to comment on the statements of the deputies, that is the first. The other one. I still remind you of the rule of law, article 120, which speaks of the following. The initiator’s insistence on the subject’s right to legislative initiative is to discuss the proposals rejected by the main committee. I want to know if we have an expert committee today, which of my 329 personal rights have only accepted 8, the others have rejected. If there's any expertise, please enter into a discussion with those deputies, especially the Fatherland, the Self-Help faction and the non-fractional people's MPs from Freedom who were preparing these changes today, they've prepared thousands of proposals. Please prove that you didn't just work on the committee or this, this bill, these papers came from a different street. So please comment on each issue and give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u150	We're voting for 180 amendments. Please. This is a right, not a duty. Please vote 180. We're having a discussion, we're going according to the Rules. It's a sin, it's a sin to complain now that we vote for every correction. [[14:11:47]] For-53 Next amendment to 183. Mrs. Timoshenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u151	Sadly, I was interrupted in half. This still speaks of respect for MPs. But at the same time, I want to continue that article 13 provides for a simplified trial. This is an orderly conduct and a simplified invitation. So I just want to point out that this is the fundamental basis for corruption, because it's not defined in this law, what small sums are, there's no specifics. And each judge will determine that for a billionaire a small amount is one sum and for a simple person a different amount. And to his judgment, the judge will be without a party's invitation, without a trial, even without a court's decision to make its own decisions. And that's why there has to be a specific definition of what these small amounts are, small amounts. I ask you to put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u152	Thank you for your clarification. 183 amendment, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[14:13:14]] For-54 184 revisions. Eutusek or Yvchenko? And please, Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u153	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would now like to address all fellow members of the national MPs. I remember Tuesday when we were working with educational reform. You remember that when Fatherland just raised questions and deductions, we were able to stand up for what we were asked to do by trade unions, educators and educators, that's 600,000 people, including low-income people. And in the end, we rejected the bill and we insisted with you that the teachers' salaries be 9,600. I'm asking everyone who's been preparing today, please, these are fundamental changes in the country's judiciary, these are fundamental laws, let's make sure that we don't make the judicial system worse, but actually make us proud of our legal process and the immediate judicial system in Ukraine. So I'm putting this right here to confirm, it's about orderly conduct and determining how a judge should act on what subsistence minimum he should determine whether or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u154	Let's vote on the 190th amendment, please. Ouch! I'm sorry. 184th Amendment, yeah. 184th. Please. [[14:14:49]] For-54 184th, it was a fixation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-07-m0.u155	Thank you, colleagues. It's about the end of time that we can continue. I'll say a few words, colleagues. At the beginning of the plenary session, I specifically named the number of amendments to each of the proposed reforms. This number of amendments is unprecedented. That's true. One edition was written, summed up, together 10,000 amendments. And I want to tell you something important. Various factions support various reforms, why it is important that we treat one another honestly. I'm in favor of having a discussion in the hall. But let us also acknowledge that sometimes amendments are made, not to improve the law, but only to delay time to bring about a collapse so that no decision is taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] This right is neither taken nor denied. I'm talking about what might be a desire to improve reform, or maybe it might just be a matter of taking time. And this is also unfair. And this is also unfair in relation to one another in the hall. We're going for an unprecedented number of amendments to each amendment. Anyone who wishes to speak raises his hand and speaks. The head of the subcommittee may or may not comment, that is his right. And it's his right to comment or not to comment. So let us take down emotional stress during discussions, and let us prepare the law professionally and honestly. And so I encourage everyone to continue their professional conversation, without political slogans, and I call for a discussion on this legislation. And we're going to continue to review the rights at 4:00. I call you to political culture, to lack of manipulation and to work constructively. So, 14:15, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4:00, we'll continue our work, and I'll invite everyone into the room to continue the work on the amendments. Thank you.
