ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Guys, sit down, make yourself at home. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. [[10:05:40]] There are 375 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and members of the government. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] The leaders of the central executive branch, the leaders of the judicial branch, the officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who are elected, appointed and assigned. Representatives of public organizations and media. Heads of diplomatic representation of foreign states and other officials. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine to the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the eighth call is made public.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u3	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian People, Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the government, distinguished guests! "Do not touch what divides and divides the individual parts of the Ukrainian land, but guard what lights and unites them into piles, and we must strengthen and develop them. To unite, to concentrate, not to share, not to run, should be our slogan." These words Michael Gruszewski wrote to the Ukrainians back in 1907. In 10 years he will lead the Ukrainian Central Council and will speak these words to the members of the first Ukrainian Parliament. 100 years later, Gruszewski's slogan "To unite, to concentrate, not to share" is relevant to all of us. Unity is a guarantee of success. The unity of all the national MPs around the idea of asserting Ukrainian statehood is the guarantee of our victory. I warmly welcome all colleagues to the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine VIII. [[Applause]] Very often, speaking out of this rostrum, I encourage you to study Ukrainian history, especially the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, which we celebrated this year in this room. If you ask what were the main decisions taken by the Central Council of Ukraine, which began its work a hundred years ago, many will name the four universals first. But few know that the Central Council has adopted important, fundamental reforms, at a time when Russian aggression has also continued. It was both administrative reform and military reform when the Ukrainian army was actually created. It's a money reform. Everyone remembers and knows about the bracelets that Narbit created. It's the Eight - Hour Workday Act. The Law on State Symbolism and many others. Hundreds of issues of state - built construction were resolved. In particular, on December 10th, 17th, a draft of the Constitution of the Ukrainian People's Republic had already been completed, in the months that followed, the Central Council had done what other nations had done for decades or even centuries. And this is because Ukraine has been deprived of statehood for hundreds of years. But unfortunately, all these decisions of the Central Council have remained declarations, because on December 21st, 17th, Russian invaders crossed the Ukrainian border and launched an attack on the capital of the young Ukrainian People's Republic of Kiev. Sadly, many of the leaders of that time viewed their narrow party interests as superior to that of an independent Ukrainian state. Internal strife, riots, Bolshevik populism propaganda, constant appeals to rebellion, have made a great deal of effort on the part of the Ukrainians, and the state has been lost. No reform is worth anything, no law is worth anything if we don't protect the Ukrainian state with you. Therefore, the number one priority for the Ukrainian Parliament for this session should remain national security and defence is our top priority. This is the preservation of our statehood, this is the preservation of Ukraine, because independence and our own state is the only guarantee of the security of the entire nation. The loss of our statehood in the 20th century has led to the worst tragedy, terrible famine, and millions of victims of famine. Today, when Ukrainian soldiers broke Putin's plans and sacrificed themselves to stop the aggressor within several areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, we have every opportunity to protect and establish Ukraine's independence. It's been two and a half years since we've been working, and during this time, very many decisions have been made that matter, and sometimes even historical decisions, but this fall, to my opinion, will be special to us, we will have a historic chance to complete a whole series of reforms that we have started in previous sessions that have been worked on in committees that have had a social discussion with the public expert environment. I would like to call those major priority reforms that I believe we should consider this fall. First of all, education reform. The Education Act introduces the concept of a new school in Ukraine, where children will not forget the dates and facts, but develop the necessary competences for further professional development, learn critical and systematic thinking. The bill introduces new requirements and incentives for a teacher who will allow him to master modern teaching techniques and implement the teaching of partnerships. The changes provide for the financial motivation of educators to develop themselves and to improve their skills, which will eventually earn a higher degree in the profession of a school teacher. The reform introduces a new management system, schools have greater autonomy and will be able to decide for themselves what curriculum to offer to students, inclusive education will develop, and children with special needs will receive quality, full education. And it's very symbolic that today we're starting our work, actually, from the Education Act, I'm sure we can talk about it properly and responsibly and make a decision about it. Next, judicial reform. There is probably no person in Ukraine who would not face injustice in Ukrainian courts. We're doing anti-corruption reforms, we're creating anti-corruption bodies, but very often their efforts are being broken down like waves of stone in modern Ukrainian courts, so we have to complete the judicial reform -- it's a guarantee that the rest of the reforms will also be completed. Retirement reform has become necessary in society to review pensions that have not changed for five years. According to the Budget Act 2017, the minimum pension will be increased to one thousand 373 bracelets. These two steps will allow almost 9 million Ukrainians to increase their pension payments this year. The reform provides for an annual recalculation of pensions, depending on the increase in wages and inflation. This will allow pensions to be increased when this is an economically sound step, reform establishes just and equal conditions for all pensions. The reform will eliminate the deficit of the Pension Fund, which means that the Fund will be able to invest in higher pensions and thus in the quality of life of Ukrainian pensioners. And finally, it's a medical reform, unfortunately, we all realize that today's health system is not working properly, it's physically and morally obsolete, it needs to be reloaded immediately. The medical reform bill will help optimize costs for the medical sector in Ukraine, and the citizen will now be able to choose where he will be treated and where his expenses will go. Doctors are paid a decent salary, depending on the result of the number of patients who have received medical care. A government-provided package of services and medicines is being set up, which is fully covered by the budget. These services and medicines are truly free of charge to citizens. Budgets allocated annually for medicine will be used more effectively and citizens will receive quality medical care. And I also want to point out that this fall, we have a task that deals with personnel assignments. In particular, in this session, I hope, and I'm sure, we can solve the question: The accounting office, the ombudsman, the Central Electoral Commission. These are questions that we owe and that we have no right to postpone. And of course, among the priorities of this session, as always in the fall, is the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget for the following year, and I am convinced that, together with the government, as in the last year, we will be able to go through all the stages in the full committee discussion system, through factions, in order to be able to go to the considered document that will be supported in this room. I want to think separately about Ukrainian soldiers, on the front line, we should always remember them: those in trenches, blinds, sniper positions, zeros, on the first line in tents, barracks, garrisons in the second and third lines. In the ATO, tens of thousands of Ukrainians carry military service, allowing them to live and work peacefully, young, often just young boys and girls and mature, realized in life, men and women, and their parents and mothers. Borons of them all, God, let the bullets pass. They work and live there too, because their work is special, it's war work -- our fighters are holding the front, they're repelling enemy attacks, they're neutralizing enemy GDRs. Such a mission was entrusted to them by Ukraine and they carried out it loyally and qualitatively, with high responsibility for the assignment, courageously, with full self - sacrifice, and without any paphos. And that day this work is near as thin as the edge of eternity. Surely no one doubts that our officers and soldiers are responding to the importance, complexity, and scope of the tasks assigned to them by Ukraine. And we need to ask each of us a question: are we responding to the tasks ahead of us, or do we always have the same responsibilities and unreserved commitment on the inside as our boys on the front line? Today, when you entered the Ukrainian Parliament, you immediately saw the main flag of the country, the Flag of Independence. Twenty-six years ago, this flag was introduced into the Supreme Council Hall right from a rally that was near the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now the Flag of Independence – our national shrine takes its place in the honour portal of the central hall of the Ukrainian Parliament, forever. The Society, rephrasing the call made by the Head of the first in the recent history of the Ukrainian Parliament, Michael Gruszewski, to say that in the case of the construction of the European Ukraine, where citizens will live freely and in dignity, we are united, we are concentrated in strength, not by a party sign, we are not running away from the complex national challenges and problems, the Ukrainians are counting on the honest work of each of us, we are working with responsibility and dignity, and we will be worthy of the heights of the tasks that Ukraine has set before us. With God to work! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u6	The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u7	The Honourable Lord of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Honourable Presidium, the Honourable Colleagues of the People’s Deputies! I have the honour to address you today from this high rostrum on the occasion of the start of the new session. A new session is an opportunity. Especially when we realize that in many years of our independence Ukrainian citizens have often felt disappointed by the empty and empty promises of politicians when they went out to Ukrainian citizens and said that tomorrow you will finally live better. And then the election went on, and life got worse and worse. Today, it is up to you, the President of the country, the Parliament and the government, to live with the Ukrainian citizen today and tomorrow. Three years after the Dignity Revolution, we were able to stabilize the situation. And we have little growth today, but this is not enough to give the Ukrainians the right quality of life, the right wages, the ability to receive quality education and health care. It is our responsibility, our responsibility, to make the changes that Ukraine has been awaiting for decades. Of course, there are those who say no, everything is gone, Ukraine is hopeless, and nothing will change. But I think these people should stay on the verge of our country's development. We must honor and respect every Ukrainian citizen who makes our country a better country every day with his conscience and patience. Today, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to encourage all of us to unite, unite, and make concrete decisions. And maybe today we're closest to making the right decisions that will allow people to get a quality pension, quality education, quality health care, eventually access to quality and fair justice. This Parliament has worked for three years. I had the honor of working with you. And I work today as Prime Minister and I know a lot of people in this room. I know you came here not to destroy, but to create. I know you want to stay in the history of this country as those who touch on our common success. But there are those who want to destroy, those who want to continue throwing the country into the chasm of trials and disappointments. And I want to say one thing from this high rostrum today, I'm going to fight for this success. And I would like us to fight together, coalition and opposition, non-fractional national MPs and all those who have heartache for Ukraine and understand that it is on our part in this historic period that depends on what Ukrainian tomorrow will be. But I am deeply convinced that our decisions, which are equal to 226, will bring about the success that every Ukrainian citizen will experience. I ask you today, and I urge all of us to unite, to make these changes together. Stop worrying about constant differences. We have a chance with you to make Ukraine a success. And I want to call on each of you, let's unite and let's finally make all the necessary decisions that will make it possible for Ukraine to become a country of successful people. Glory to Ukraine! And I hope for our victory and I believe in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you to the government and to all who participated in the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to report that today is our colleague's birthday, Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. Let's welcome Mr. Sergei on his birthday. [[Applause]] And I remind you that in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. And I'm asking all the factions to record the performance. Thank you again for opening our session. Thanks again to the government. I hope that ministers, especially ministers, will work with us during the day. Please hold the recording. So Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich from the "Will of the People" group is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Jaroslav. I ask everyone to take up jobs and more attention and respect for each other. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, we, the Ukrainian Parliament, will define the way of the country's development decades ahead. It is our joint vote that will determine whether we restore the Ukrainian nation or leave everything as it is in the ruins. I want to pay attention to the most powerful and at the same time the most undervalued army in Ukraine is the army of educated people. The ruins we have today are not in neglected school facilities or in the absence of textbooks. The ruins are in relation to the foundation, to the teacher. And although it is now accepted to speak negatively about the period of independence, motivation for teachers existed at that time. And the bones of the teachers who work today are brought up in the same times. The State’s attitude toward the teacher is a state policy that testifies to either the power of the State or its weakness. Who knows if we'd let that vicious war happen if 25 years ago, we'd have reacted differently to school. The state rejected the teacher at the bottom of the social ladder, making him a beggar. We know exactly what our school is like. And not only are there teachers among us, but there are MPs who graduated in independence. Or should I tell you that all the material and technical supplies on your parents today are textbooks, parties, repairs, window replacements, roofs, school equipment. That a teacher today as a Ukrainian volunteer in the 14th century is without a vest and in his very pockets. That all of our preschool education is based on the same parents, coaches, and the good will of the patrons. The state moved itself, using the laurels of the winners without delaying a penny. Look at our vocational and technical education, which is being raped for a year at a time, cutting off any funding. And our seniors only dream of getting out of the country. They do not appreciate their Fatherland because the State never valued them. And it's not just technical, it's also manufacturing. Poland, at the expense of the Ukrainians, has completely thwarted the negative effects of the outflow of its citizens, workers, to Western European countries. The authorities must return to education with their faces. Our decision depends on the question of the historical survival of the nation. So we need to draw the attention of the State to the work of a teacher by changing its attitude toward the whole field. This applies not only to the new Education Act but also to the setting up of real funds in the state budget for the following year. We need to encourage young people to come to work in the educational sector and show a real perspective. Dear colleagues, let us not lose sight of the historic opportunity we have today. We will support reform, support our educators, support the future of Ukraine. And forget the truth that's yet to be said.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u10	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u11	Don't forget the truth told by Winston Churchill: "Teachers have power that prime ministers can only dream of." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u12	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to Yuri Boykov, co-head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Parliament did not gather for a month and a half, during this time, crises in all directions have only intensified: the poverty of the people persists, the military hysteria is on the rise of prices, tariffs and the fall of the population. Since the beginning of the year, the external trade balance has dropped by $2.2 billion, and this is a sign that the national currency exchange rate has been artificially maintained. Parliament's working week is empty again. The government simulates violent activity and announces some redundancies. We require the government to present to Parliament a work programme and insist on the adoption of a package of laws on how to get out of a crisis situation in all directions. The reforms declared by the government -- land, pension, education -- are not essentially reforms and will finally get people. Medically, in general, is in conflict with article 49 of the Constitution. Reforms need to be carefully prepared, and they need to be able to calculate the consequences. The ferocious results of previous reforms have already been fully felt by Ukraine. A daily shooting on the streets, killings, robbery and violence is the result of police reform. The rise in tariffs and the full balance of the entire energy system is the questionable success of energy reformers. The record decline in GDP, the collapse of the real sector and the collapse of the financial system are the achievements of economic reformers and their supervisors from the IMF. We demand that we stop lying to the population and call reforms the fight for financial flows. Each of these reforms will result in poverty, deprivation of education, and health care, and the processing of foreign land in their own state will be necessary. With regard to regulation in the eastern part of the country, we demand that the political part of the Minsk Treaties be voted on to postpone the entry into force if the obligation is fulfilled by the other party. In this way, Ukraine will strengthen its negotiating position by fulfilling its part of the deal. No one has seen the text of the Law on Reintegration, but predominant factions are already aspiring for its adoption. We uphold the law only if it contributes to the restoration of peace, not to the exacerbation of the conflict in the east. And the last. We believe that daily beatings of Ukrainians with foreheads and animosity can lead to a split of the country. Only the enemies of the State promote hatred, division of people according to language, religion, and territory. We believe that all forces must now be cast into the unity of the country and the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u14	From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u15	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. The Supreme Council of the VIII Assembly begins one of the most responsible stages of its work. During this call, we have come a long way of changing. The Ukrainian army is reborn, and now it is not only the pride of the nation but also one of the world’s most powerful armies. Despite the war, there was a substantial increase in the minimum wage, increased financial security for military personnel, teachers, and doctors. Despite the annexation of much of the territory and armed aggression, thanks to the efforts of the President of Ukraine, the Parliament, our diplomats, we have succeeded in achieving a visa-free regime and the full operation of the Association Agreement with the European Union. These facts, together with powerful sanctions against Russia as an aggressor, prove Ukraine’s undeniable support to virtually all the democratic countries of the world. And today Parliament must strengthen this path with further reforms. Because stopping or slowing down reforms is a minor threat than military aggression. I'd like to speak to the national MPs here again. No faction, no national MP, has the right to stand in opposition to Ukraine, for we all have a great responsibility to the Ukrainian people. First of all, it is about reforming the judicial system and creating honest, transparent judges who will defend the law, have respect and trust in the Ukrainian society. Without a transparent judicial system, most EU standards cannot be implemented in Ukraine. There is no barrier to foreign investment, economics, and industry. Today, too, Ukraine can receive a modernized education system that will provide new principles of learning, enabling it to gain quality education for the growing generation. A pension reform aimed at creating a fair pension system is extremely important for Ukrainian society. The reform of health care, which should be considered one of the most important to the state, with special attention to rural medicine. Members should keep in mind that the Kremlin’s armed aggression in the country must be considered and taken under the dome without delay. And another very important question. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenka called on the government to establish a veteran ministry that would lead a veteran and which would greatly improve the quality of care for the fate of veterans in our country. We ask all our colleagues to support our initiative. There have been irreversible changes in the country, but we have no right to slow down the pace of reforms, and Parliament has been given enormous responsibility for the future of our country, so the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko calls for effective work during the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u16	Thank you. We invite you to join us from the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team supports Prime Minister Groysman's call to unite. But, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, around which to unite, let's define. Protecting the state, strengthening the defence and strengthening the army, supporting our defenders? Of course, here's our hand, we vote for all the bills that will allow you to feed your army, because someone who doesn't feed his army will feed someone else. Let's talk about domestic politics, socio-economic politics. If you're offering a union around rising retirement age, raising prices, raising tariffs, selling land, selling raw materials, here we're not your allies, we're your opponents and stronger opponents than we are, you're not going to find because we're proposing radically different policies, trading not raw materials, but products, raising not retirement age, but rising pensions, raising wages. We offer a union around an idea — a job worth living, a decent job, and a decent life. And all our efforts, both in Parliament and in the government and in the President, must be directed to this. Enough trade in national interests, trade in national interests leads to poverty and poverty, deprives Ukraine of the future. We offer -- perspective, we offer -- the future. To prevent Ukrainians from going abroad but to work here inside the country so that the budgets are filled to be opened, the kindergartens are opened, not closed under the economics of the budget. The Ukrainian nation will have a future when people are educated and healthy, so we suggest that we direct our efforts. The Radical Party team is fully operational, and we haven't stopped it in the summer. I want to assure the Ukrainians that everything that depends on us will be done in order for each and every one of you to be able to realize themselves in your own country. Many of you ask, but why do you speak but fail? Because it takes 226 votes to make decisions in Parliament, a team of the Radical Party of 20 deputies in parliament. So, honourable Ukrainians, if you want to live decently in your country, support our team so that we can implement a plan that will allow each of you to work, earn, feed your children, live decently on pension, get medical, education and any other services in your country. Thank you, the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the leader of the Oleg Barresuk faction, please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen! Your Majesty, the presiding lady! Unquestionably, only in unity is force. But we need to define what unity is. The unity of the eastern despot when fear — fear of persecution, intimidation, destruction, beatings — is driven into unity for the sake of the income of one or more people in the country. This is not the unity that builds up in a democratic state. Power in the unity of people who have a common goal of statehood and the quality of human life. Power in unity, where there are weights and opposites in government of the state, not the despot of one or more people. The Self-Help faction and party for democratic unity, including in parliament. Let us unite around the laws that preserve the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, a simple law written by many MPs in the Supreme Council, on occupied territories that give people rights in the occupied territory, which protects prisoners of war, who protect the Ukrainian soldier who protects the Ukrainian in 50 and 100 years. Let us unite around the National Security Bill, which determines the responsibility of the country’s security officer. Who's in charge of the de jure today? ATO leader. Do you know his last name? Let us unite for civilian control of the defence budget. Why are there no ambulances on the front line today that take out our wounded soldiers? Because there's a budget, where it's disappearing, no one knows. And why doesn't Ucroborprom help the Ukrainian army with its activities? Let us unite around the pension reform process, and let us give people the minimum pensions that we deserve. We will pay the people due off the 15 - percent pension tax and make a pension reform that will develop the Ukrainian person and be confident of his future. If we talk about medicine, if we don't adopt the Medical Reform Act in this session, it won't, because it's gone. Therefore, unity involves serving people, not serving despots who care exclusively for their own budgetary interests, not people’s. And I'll finish my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u20	Let me finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u21	In the words of the genius of the Ukrainian John Frank. Each of us here in the country and in the hall must say that I am the son of a people who go into the mountain and are once hidden in the meadows. My call is work, happiness and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u22	Thank you. And please welcome the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u23	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, what moods and plans are we in for the new season? There are certainly those who work for the temporary elections of the first day of this Parliament’s work. Their plans remain the same for the fall. They will do their utmost to paralyse Parliament's work, stop the implementation of important reforms, block the budgetary process, and then sabotage the financing of the army. Their principle: The worse the better. They promise the manna of the heavens tomorrow and tell us how easy and simple everything is. At first, they sold air, and now they sell happiness. These critics have already led the country for many years after orange Maidan and have brought Yanukovich to power. The result is a pillaged state with colossal debts, a gas storm of the Kremlin and the total destruction of the army. But this year we will overcome these hostile plans, as they were broken last year and the year after that. On September 1st, the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU became effective. Now our next geostrategic task is to join the EU and NATO. We believe that the Supreme Council should adopt a law that clearly sets out the order for entry into the European Union and NATO. In view of this, we expect from the government a plan of entry that is intended to form the basis of such a legislative act. Today, this Parliament lays the foundation for our imminent membership in the EU and NATO. This autumn's People's Front will fight for the adoption of important reforms that this country has not undertaken in 25 years. The constant delay in life - sustaining changes resulted in the erosion of the state, the impoverishment of people, and the imaginative enrichment of individual parts. Real reforms began only in 2014, when the Yatsenuk government assumed responsibility for the looted and disarmed country that took over the offensive of the enemy forces. Everything was neglected so much that it seemed unrealistic to give in such short periods of time. But today we have something to be proud of. The pace and depth of the reforms have been recognized by our international partners. Today we have to vote with you to vote on the pro-legislative law that governs modern European educational standards, and above all, it will make our young people even more competitive in today's world, raise free-bred and confident Ukrainian citizens. This reform is aimed at raising standards of work and providing social security for our education. I am glad that this difficult but important and necessary reform has been undertaken by our colleague, Lilia Greenevich. We are looking forward to the adoption of a budget in which protected defence costs should be at least 5 percent of the gross domestic product. It's a strict demand for the People's Front. In addition, the State budget should be a guarantee of social standards, and government policies should promote private initiative and innovation. The second important question, the heating season. The main tasks are to guarantee the security of the supply of energy from outside the aggressor country, to fund housing subsidies continuously and to increase energy efficiency measures. The third challenge for this autumn is systemic reforms, medical and pension. May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u24	30 seconds, please let me continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u25	And let's do it anyway. Not to forget the equally important reform is the beginning of the reform of the Supreme Council. We have this plan of action for this autumn. Finally, I want to remind my fans of the endless demagogue of human rights and freedom of speech. Today, they are more relevant than ever, and they have gained new meaning. In today's world, the highest right is the right to protection from the "Russian dimension" and the greatest freedom is freedom from the Putin concentration camp of the peoples. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u26	Thank you, Sir Maxime. Please welcome Mrs. Timoshenko, Head of the Fatherland faction. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u27	I would like to welcome the beginning of the political season, but after listening to the cheery one, such a bold, optimistic speech by the Prime Minister, I want to change the Rules and give the Prime Minister the opportunity to ask questions. And the first question he'd like to ask is, how did it happen that the whole country with great difficulty was returning the money that Yanukovic had stolen to the budget, and in the summer, while everyone was resting, almost 7 billion dollars were given to clans around the government and the president, and in fact no money was given to people. Why would they come back if they just stole it? And so it's optimistic. And I would like us not to live with illusions but to make the right diagnosis. The correct diagnosis was made by the world, the United Nations, which in its annual report on human development, made it clear that 60 percent of Ukrainians now live outside the poverty line. This is a sentence of so-called reforms, in paws. In addition, the United Nations said that 31.9 percent of the decline in gross national product per capita. Such losses can only be borne by countries during total wars of all sorts. The Ukrainian people are at war. And any world rating you take, you see that unfortunately, the world appreciates what's going on in Ukraine, not like the Prime Minister and the President from the television channels. And the new reforms that have been put in place, the country should be carefully analyzed and analyzed. It's because 85 percent of people think the country is moving in the wrong direction that we need to immediately become the initiators of Parliament, in the parliamentary-presidential form of government, bring together the President, the Prime Minister, the government, the heads of factions, the heads of non-parliamentary parties of democratic, pro-European, and finally give all of them a fair assessment of what is going on in the country. Ukraine is on the verge of a breakthrough. Ukraine loses, drops by drop, the blood of its life. We're losing population, people aren't driving, they're already evacuating from the country. We need to talk about a new strategy together. And "Paternity" can offer a step-by-step solution to this colossal crisis, in which, in 26 years, an independent Ukraine has never been once before. And to say that it's okay, it means that this deep-seated disease is going to leave the indiagnost behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u28	Please give me 30 seconds to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u29	undiagnosed and untreated. Therefore, if there is responsibility in this Hall for the country, if there is morality, honour, I ask that you immediately gather for a joint strategic meeting in Parliament and review the strategy and absolutely stupid so-called reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u30	Thank you. And the last performance by Mr. Bondar's team leader. Please, Mr. Victor, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are certainly on the eve of the new political year, the new fiscal year today is essentially beginning to lay the foundation for the next year, which by the end of the year will take key steps in the country after the recovery of the economy and after its recovery from the crisis. We have heard many informative praises today from the fact that nearly one and a half hundred reforms have taken place in Ukraine in three years. Unfortunately, all these reforms have led to nothing in terms of increasing the income of the population, in terms of increasing social protection. And if you even look at the world ratings, Ukraine's "backseats" today. We've practically jumped in the worst positions in all directions. And by business support, and by social protection, and by population income, and so on. So the richest countries in the world don't make 150 reforms in 2-3 years. It's not reform, it's pseudo-reform. When it comes to reforms, there may be two, up to three reforms a year. But they need to be strengthened fiscally to ensure their completion. And the result is either increasing the income of the population, or facilitating the business, or raising the national economy, production, or some other key and powerful things that will be noticeable to the population of Ukraine. Unfortunately, today we see that there is no one to carry out these reforms. Most of the government has already stated several times that they are resigning, have written statements, but we have not seen the vote in the hall after their release. How can reform be carried out by people who are already sitting on suitcases and who have practically left their offices? That's why we're calling on the ruling coalition today, calling on the government to make proposals to change the quality of government, to change government members, to give people who are professionals in every field. And give us the answer that two key reforms will be made in this year, how they will be budgeted, and what it will give people at the end. We're talking about what should be increased wages, increased social assistance for the underprivileged. There's going to be a rise in national production and there's going to be a change in completely economic policy, and there's going to be conditions for running a modern professional and quality business that fits world standards. And the last. We talk a lot about how something is changing in Ukraine. Look at the National Bank of Ukraine. Almost a year and a half ago, after Gottaraeva resigned, nothing changed. Where's the resignation? Where's the new head of the National Bank? Where are the normal business loans? Where normal loans for the population are cheap to raise the economy and allow people to work and create new jobs. There's nothing and nothing changes. So we call for a decision on the National Bank and make urgent proposals on the head of the National Bank. This is a real step for creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u32	Thank you. So, colleagues, all the factions and groups have finished speaking. But there were statements from factions to announce the break. The first statement came from the MP's faction of the People's Front and the Radical Party. And they're ready to replace a 30-minute break with a tribune. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we must pay attention to the egregious failures in the work of law enforcement agencies. The U.S. Attorney General's Office has long and loud investigations into the crimes of the Yanukovic regime. But this intense work has not yet touched Sergey Ljovczyn. A man who actually ruled Ukraine on behalf of a foolish president. When we appointed Yuri Lucenka and our national deputies, we repeatedly called the name Ljocken among individuals whose activities should be tested under a microscope. It was Ljowczyn who built the corruption regime of Janukovich from scratch, using the money of his longtime investor Dmitr Firtash, which means the money of Mogilevich and Putin. Because of Ljovcken, people were hired and controlled, who raped and looted Ukraine, porters, laurines, and onions. Ljočkin is personally responsible for the admission of dozens of Russian spies to Ukraine’s general posts: Zacharychenka, Lebedev, Kalinina, Jakimenka, and below. These people have just fled to the Russian world, and they're looking for corruption, treason and murder. Why, then, are there no questions for Lewochkin, who prepared and called for their assignments? He was behind a constitutional coup that gave Yanukovic authority that he did not choose. In recent times, the public prosecutor’s office has been actively involved in the property and income of the people’s deputies, but for some reason the hands are not being tested for the billions of Ljovczyn’s assets, which have been earned over the years by anti - Ukrainian subversive activities. Journalists regularly write about “the third of Midian, ” the property of Sergey Ljowczyn, about his yachts and his estate in France. Although he has been in public office for the past 10 years, he has no right to do business. There's still no law enforcement response. This is because Ljovczyn continues active anti - Ukrainian activities, accusing Ukraine of war on Donbas. We're asking the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and all law enforcement agencies to protect common sense and finally start criminalizing Sergey Ljovczyn. Please consider this a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u34	Thank you. The next statement came from the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction. Derivyanko will be speaking. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u35	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of the New Forces of Michael Saakashvili". Ladies and gentlemen, dear Ukrainians, I am very grateful to the factions of Self-Help and Fatherland for giving us the right to do this. At a time when democracy is collapsing in the country, and this is very important. The total control of the media, the scale of business, the destruction of anti-corruption bodies, the persecution of activists, the blackmail of MPs, are all signs of the new regime of that dictatorship, which is now being created by President Poroshenko. Janukovic put his political opponents in prison, and today’s regime went further. He's driving them out of Ukraine, all of them. The President's Administration is now in full preparation by September 10th, until the day Mikhailo Saakashvili returns to Ukraine. They're all mobilized, absolutely. The whole state machine is working to prevent one person from going to Ukraine. The break-in, the shoot-out, the arrests, they're all the scarecrows that scare the Ukrainians. And they're practically making a fortress with the Cracow point right now. That's how I address Mr. Chief of Staff, Mr. President. We have an enemy on the eastern border, not the west. We have an enemy in Russia. I'm personally responsible, we don't plan on breaking the state border or breaking the law in any way. Why is the President so afraid of Saakashvili's return? Because Saakashvili is one of those leaders of political power who is truly in opposition. Since April, the process of unifying the new opposition forces has been under way, and the headquarters of joint action has been established throughout Ukraine, and in the autumn, a broad protest movement against corruption, against such a policy of active power, has been clearly announced. It is this fear that pushes Dusty to such inadequacies. And the next one is very important. There is no ban on Michael Saakashvili’s entry into Ukraine today. If such a ban were to occur in some strange way, it would mean that either the Head of the State Border Service, or Head of the Sokoluk State Migration Service, or Head of the Gritzak State Department, would commit a criminal offence. Do not obey illegal orders, even if they force you to do so. Because you're responsible for these crimes. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, ratified by Ukraine, clearly states that "no one may be deprived of the right to return to his own country." Mikhail Saakashvili has only Ukrainian citizenship and is a permanent resident in Ukraine and cannot be denied the right to return home. And the last. It's not a simple conflict between Saakashvili and Dustykenka, it's a conflict of different world views -- it's a conflict of one world view of corruption in power and another, who thinks it's time to break this circular message. Therefore, honourable deputies, it is impossible to stand outside, and each one of you must be determined. I am convinced that Ukraine will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u36	So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda of the plenary and, of course, we have the first question to discuss the draft agenda for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. So the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were discussed and proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft agenda for the seventh session, which included all the proposals made by the committees that were submitted to the Supreme Council, and we discussed this issue yesterday at the Conciliation Council, and it was given in advance to all the heads and representatives of the factions. And, colleagues, it's important for us to establish the order of the day because if we don't approve the session of the agenda, we can't look at any of the bills in the first reading. So I suggest that we now have a moment to discuss this issue and move on to making decisions. At the same time, I invite all the deputies to the hall, in a few minutes there will be a vote and I ask you to take part in the discussion. So in a minute. Arthur Gerasimov, Peter Dustenk's Block, regarding the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We are thoroughly familiar with the agenda that is now being proposed for the vote, and I want to say that the faction of the Party of Peter Dustenka will maintain this order of the day, and we urge all colleagues to also gather and maintain this order of the day. Why? Because I would like to stress once again: there is now a great deal of responsibility in Parliament for the pace of reforms. And we understand, of course, that not voting for the agenda can slow down the decision-making process in this room. So I urge everyone to regroup and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u38	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! I'm calling on everyone to finally vote for the agenda of this session so that we don't repeat the disgraceful practice of past sessions when we couldn't approve for the entire session or for a week, but we worked daily. Because we're required in places of systemic reform, once. They're demanding an extension. Ensure legislative continuation of decentralization reform. We are also required to organize the city councils, where the regional rematch has already taken place, including the City Council of Cherniewets. So please, everyone, let's focus and show that all of us, from the first vote, are set up for productive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u40	Thank you. Captain Olena, please, Olena Sotnik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! We have already stressed in our statement that the priority of the autumn session for Self-Help should be to preserve the sovereignty of this country. And the restoration of peace, the restoration of peace, is possible only after a law has been passed that has been drafted in this Parliament for a year. He has repeatedly discussed occupied territories, not on a daily basis. First of all, it's a severe violation of the Rules, and second of all, it's not one of the biggest factions in this Parliament. The second question is the Anti-Corruption Court, I don't understand that we don't want to end the anti-corruption reform that you're all bragging about abroad? The anticorruption court is the logical conclusion of this reform. And the third question is the question of the integrity of the national MPs. We've talked about this many times, simple changes to the Rules, one law, and you won't be in front of people anymore, actually playing the circus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u42	From Fatherland, Yvchenko. Yvchenka, right? Please turn on the microphone to Ichchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u43	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Head, there is a proposal from Fatherland that we vote for all the bills that are now included in the agenda. Because we don't see, for example. More specifically, we're registered in the Supreme Council because we don't see laws, for example, on the energy ombudsman of our colleagues, we don't see a bill on accessing family farms to land, a group of members of the agrarian committee. We don't see the Notaryate Bill, we don't see the State Service Bill. These are bills that were developed in the summer and submitted by our faction, including a group of national deputies. That's the first one. Second, we won't vote for the apps. Why? Because, for example, you want to remove one in the appendix, in general, from the budget code of support for young people. Is that right? No, it's not. The question of emphyteussis, which insists on "The Fatherland," that it's a shadow market, you rule it out. Instead, the question of continuing emphyteusism and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u44	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u45	Instead, the question of the shadow circle of emphytevosis, which another group of national deputies proposed, you include in the agenda. That's not a good approach. Let's vote on all the bills that have numbers and are registered in the Supreme Council today, we vote and we put them into the agenda, and minus all the supplements, because they're not perfect, they're subjective, and they're submitted by the committee, and you know how the committees initially referred to the opposition bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u46	Thank you. I'm just going to let you know, for the sake of general understanding, that the formation of the agenda takes place in accordance with a clearly defined procedure of law, namely, the committees submit to the apparatus those bills that they recommend for consideration and, in effect, form the agenda for the session, and that's how it goes into the hall. And when we talk about compliance with the Rules, that is the form provided for in the Rules of Procedure Act, and that is the procedure envisaged, so it is being discussed. I'll remind you, in the previous session, we've repeatedly completed that base list, but it's this basic proposal that's being made and formulated under the law, there's no subjectivity here, there's a clear will and a committee proposal. Please, Jaroslav Moskalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u47	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! I have an MP's "will of the people" group to maintain the agenda, but not all deputies in the hands of the agenda themselves, so I have a request to answer the following question, are all the bills of order of the sixth session included in the agenda of the seventh session.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u48	Thank you. I'll say again, let's face it, if I'm not mistaken, there are two thousand 773 bills, I can't talk about each one in particular. And once again, I'm talking about how the agenda is formed: by the committees that the committees are proposing to the session, that's how it's formed. I can't tell you about every bill, I'm talking about logic itself as it forms a daytime application. Please, from the Radical Party is Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head! The agenda of the plenary week is formed after the committees have been submitted. We are now discussing with you the order of the day of the seventh session. In the order of the day’s seventh session of the Supreme Council, all the bills registered before the opening of the session today are included. I ask you to emphasize that. [[Applause]] Because yesterday our team registered, among other things, bills of radical increase in responsibility for driving, salary increases, and pension increases. The papers you handed out don't contain these bills. But according to the Law on the Rules, we have the right to do so. So our faction is voting for the order of the day of the seventh session, taking into account all the bills registered up to the 10th branch this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u50	Thank you. Oleg Valeriyovich, I repeat this thing both weekly and the sessions are formed by committee submission. And I'm going to emphasize two thousand and 700 again. Yes, I was brought to read. Article 21 is the formation of the agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session: proposals for the draft agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session are generalized by the Supreme Council’s Supreme Council Office for the submission of committees, temporary commissions of inquiry, and temporary special committees for the inclusion of questions in a section. After their discussion and approval by the Conciliation Council, the draft Order on the Order of the Day Session of the Supreme Council is submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which I do, go and consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u51	Listen, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u52	My colleagues, listen to me now. I will now suggest that we make a decision, and ask everyone to come into the hall. We have this discussion going on almost every session. And we've found a compromise format for a period of discussion and discussion, which is to establish the order of the day per week. Wednesday, tomorrow will be a full committee day. Perhaps not all of the bill's committees have been able to consider, perhaps tomorrow on the committees, we will be able to complete new proposals by the committees. Let me put to the vote the entire order of the day session, but if it doesn't pass, let's confirm the weekly and over the week we'll work out the bills that are registered with the committees. And next week, we're going to confirm the agenda for the session if we don't get through today. Is that a compromise, colleagues? Come on, we have to move on to making decisions, and I'm going to step-by-step put those proposals that I've made. Oleg Valeriyovich, I don't have that right. We made it the next week. The previous session was as follows: factions emphasized and made their proposals, a list. It's like what the committee didn't give us, we're still asking for this list. And, colleagues, come on, please come into the hall, let's move on to making decisions. I'm going to propose a full-day session order first, then a weekly one. There's a compromise option so that we can move on today to the issues that stand in order of the day so that we can work out the agenda for the entire session during the week. We've got a lot of questions today on the order of the day. In particular, the first issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding territories with a special language regime. And we won't be able to look at it if we don't at least confirm the weekly agenda. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please take all your seats. I'll be the first to vote. Please prepare for the vote of all national deputies, take your seats. First, I put to the vote a draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Seventh Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account all plugins for adoption as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:15:39]] For 158. So we need to redesign the agenda for the day session. And I'm asking all the committees to consider tomorrow all the bills that have been registered to date and have been able to recommend for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, so that all who are registered are considered, and the committee is determined as to their recommendation for consideration. And, colleagues, it's compromiseable. I'm asking you to confirm the schedule for the week. And I ask all of you to support this proposal so that we can move on to the educational laws. I want to stress that the Education Law itself can be considered, but the related laws need to be included in the order of the day’s session. Colleagues, is there any support that we, as a compromise proposal, can establish a weekly agenda? Yes. Let's vote. So we can get into the education block and we can look at it. So, colleagues, so that we can get into the education unit. I'm asking you to support the proposal to establish a weekly schedule of plenary meetings for September 5-8. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues! Careful! I ask you all to support, vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please vote. [[11:17:25]] For-198 Not enough votes, colleagues. I am. That's what I'm talking Tell me, what is the problem? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I just read you a position that's formed by committee, I'm offering a normal proposal, there's committees tomorrow, and there's going to be committee submissions. I just read you the position of the Rules. Colleagues, come on, we have two options right now, I'm offering you the last daily proposal, the agenda, if we don't, we're just going to look at the bills of second reading those that are ready. Colleagues, there's a normal proposal for working out the agenda, there'll be committees tomorrow, there's a normal compromise offer. Now I'm going to ask you, colleagues, we have two options: one to try to get today's order approved, the other to go to the laws in the second reading and work out the agenda. Please. Come on, fellows, let's take one more minute. I'm telling you once again to announce from the rostrum everyone who registers for this moment, I don't have that kind of authority, it goes against the Rules, it goes against the common sense, it's going to be a formed committee. I stress to you, tomorrow there will be committees, we have the ability to have each of the bills filed by the committee, we have the ability to take into account additional positions, but to announce from the rostrum of the proposal everyone who is registered -- it's illegal, I can't do that. Colleagues, let's take a minute and move on to the decision: either we approve the weekly or we go on the second reading of the agenda. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I understand that there may be questions about the order of the day session, maybe there are issues that are not involved, we can discuss this, but I would sincerely ask all the national deputies to come into the hall right now and vote in favour of this week's agenda. Why? Because the excessive laws are at issue, and they apply to the first reading, including. And once again, I would like to point out that in the daytime order, for example today, there are also laws that apply to language in the territory where the military aggression of the Russian Federation is taking place today, I mean Donetsk and Lugansk. It's a wonderful law, which, in my view, we have to adopt in general. So, colleagues, once again, I ask you to assemble and maintain the weekly agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u54	Thank you, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! The history of last fall repeats, so the sessions began, and so all flames from the rostrum told us that for the unity of all of us, coalition and opposition together must do everything in order to build up the state, to protect it. But it's empty, so the words from the rostrum, the cry of crocodiles, and the assurance of the sale of happiness, here's to the Ukrainians. Instead, you need to do the work, not the words to prove that you are just defending the interests of Ukraine! Deal by pressing the buttons in favour of such necessary reforms in our country. Not just watering the rooster with tears, but doing something! So I'm addressing all the responsible deputies from different factions, so let's vote and start a constructive work to build up the European, the only state in Ukraine for all Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u56	Thank you. From Fatherland, I will give the word of Timoshenko to all. You're going to be Simeonach, aren't you? Please, one minute, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! In fact, it is surprising that, with such a deficit of money in the budget, which is today not put into the agenda, there is no vote in the laws of the Fatherland on the de-offshoring of the economy, two fundamental, systemic bills, lying in Parliament without consideration, which can add at least 67 billion dollars to the income portion of the budget in the first year. There's no "Fatherland" bill on tariff sorting, no interim commission of inquiry that can stop corruption. There are no other bills that apply to the fair strategic course of pension reform. We have all the laws of the Fatherland that give us a new strategy for the development of the state, and no law is in place. We insist that all the bills registered for this minute be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Semenha, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u59	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, the Supreme Council is not just a coalition, and the bills are not only registered by the coalition. And there's opposition, there's non-fractional opposition. And that agenda that is being proposed today actually deprives members of the legislative initiative of opposition. And that's unacceptable. I think that's the proposal that proposes to include in the agenda of the day all the bill registers, which will reflect. Including our insistence on a bill on temporarily occupied territories. The Anti-Corruption Court Bill. Bill on the considerable limitation of parliamentary immunity. So we insist on the inclusion of all the bills that are registered, and this will reflect the initiative of all the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u60	Thank you. I'm the only one explaining the important thing again. Because we can't have rules on some issues important, on others it doesn't matter. Give a proposal from the faction. We'll do what we did in the previous session. We added a clear list of bills to the basic document. This is not a legislatively predictable form. Let's register everything that's registered. Give a list, and we can, as in the previous session, add a clear list of bills to the basic proposal. That's how it forms normally. Why do I propose to use the potential of the committees tomorrow? If the committees do not propose some of the laws that are important to you, please provide them with a separate list. And here, in the hall, we'll be able to vote on them by calling them numbers and having a document. This is the only way to form a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why I propose as a compromise a week to establish the order of the day. So that we can work together in a week so that you can form these proposals. And in this order of day, I remind you, there are bills that are on the committee that are headed by a representative of your faction, a representative of the opposition. This is cybersecurity and service trust. And they're fine this week. That's why I'm proposing. Yes, we can. Yes, that's true. That's true. But nothing prevents us from voting, for there are questions that are overwhelming, which are found in the first reading. Please, who else wanted it? Last Easy, let's move on to making a decision. If we don't have a vote, we move on to second reading, to the Education Act. Please, Baby, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u61	Andrija Volodymyrovich, the Radical Party team came to Parliament to work. We consider it a great luxury in a country that reflects Russian aggression, a non-working parliament, a non-working parliament for which taxpayers have to pay from their pockets. That is why we support decisions that will allow Parliament to work. Our faction votes in favour of the agenda, where important issues of education, security, and information security of the state stand. Not voting for these decisions is a crime, it's irresponsible for our defenders, it's irresponsible for Ukraine. Because we've been pounding water in our feet for 26 years, that's how we live. We call for work, to smell 24 hours a day, to pull the country out of this chasm, into which it was brought by all the former authorities who today pretend to be wolves in sheep's clothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u62	Thank you. I support this position and ask everyone to come into the decision-making room. I want to explain: What is the purpose? I'm explaining that we have the first law today that the Committee on Freedom of Speech has prepared in the occupied territories. What is the purpose of not considering it today, not making a decision? We have the law in the first reading of the Committee on Science and Education as accompanying the Basic Law on Higher Education. What is the purpose of not voting? I don't understand. Apart from political intrigue, I can see nothing more, no more logic. So I urge everyone to vote on the compromise proposal: to approve the weekly agenda of the session, weekly, and to conclude the discussions over the whole session during the week on how to form the agenda. And I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. Colleagues, any vote can have weight, so I'm asking everyone to vote now. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal. I'm sorry, colleagues, I don't want to name names. Please take your places to vote now. Jaroslav, an important vote. If you don't mind, one minute. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to approve the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from September 5 to 8. Colleagues, please hold everyone responsible, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:28:13]] For 212 Colleagues, I'll put the last one in. All right, colleagues. Then I'll put the third time. No votes. Let us go straight to the Education Law. So, colleagues, please mobilize. Once again, I propose to maintain the weekly schedule of the session. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and I'm asking you to support me. I see the deputies are still entering the hall. Please come into the hall. Please support the proposal to approve the weekly agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from September 5 to 8. Please support and please vote. Vote. [[11:29:19]] For 222 We didn't make it. [[Noise Nodes]] Why would you say that? They're coming in. The MPs have come to the hall. We just got an MP in the hall. Mustafa Najam had just entered the hall, and Ivanchuk entered the hall, Lesjuk, and entered the hall. So just four deputies went into the hall. I called their names to support the decision. Do not show such gestures. Be responsible. So, colleagues, please prepare to take up jobs. Please come into the hall now, take up jobs, please support, and I'm putting to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 5-8. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We support education, we support security. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:30:34]] For 226 Decision taken. And, colleagues, that's us. But we still have before we go to the first question, and this is an information policy issue, and I think it's very right that we were able to confirm the weekly agenda, that we will be able to now consider information security issues. It is thanks to all who have made the responsible decision. But I now have a statement from two factions to announce the break from Peter Dustenk's Block and the People's Will Group. There hasn't been a break since Peter Prashenko's Block, there hasn't been, and I give you my word. There hasn't been a break application since Peter Dustenk's Block. () [[B in m in s a l in]] With the "will of the people" group. The group has the same authority that the faction, stop, I invite you to speak to the head of the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The faction of Peter Dustock's Party is on its way. refers to the inclusion in the agenda and to the decision today under Bill 7052, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Non-resident Investors' Income in Securities. The adoption of the draft law today will significantly improve the investment attractiveness of Ukraine's state securities, which is extremely important, just on the day of the opening of the new session of the Supreme Council, to give a positive signal to the investor about parliament's willingness to adopt laws that are important for the development of the country. By adopting Bill 7052, we will create real weights for government and local budgets, on the basis of government borrowings, the involvement of foreign investors in exchange, release, purchase, redemption and sale of government debt. At the same time, there is a need to emphasize yet another threat to the important aspect of this bill, and it sets a limit on government debt, including local debt. The project, aimed at improving the investment attractiveness of Ukraine's state securities to foreign investors, will encourage the financing of the state budget at the expense of foreign investors. Dear colleagues, I ask you now, Andrew Volodymyrovich, to put this question to the vote for inclusion in the agenda separately. And I'd like you to gather and make a positive decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u64	Thank you. I was approached by the government, Prime Minister, asking for the urgency of this bill. If there's room will, Mr. Arthur, we can put the committee in the agenda of today's session so that if there's room will, the committee can take a look. Then, Vica, one second. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal of "Peter Prashenko's Block" the inclusion in the agenda of today's Bill 7052 so that the committee can consider it more quickly so that the committee can consider it. I know that both the Ministry of Finance and the government have discussed this bill with all the factions. I know he's supported by most people in the hall. If there's political will, if there's the will of the hall, we'll support it. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to include in today's agenda a day session to decide the draft Law 7052. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Please be supportive. We won't be looking at him right now. [[11:34:28]] For-200 That's 26 votes, that's a lot. My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. Let the members of your faction come in, your offer. I was told by the government that most factions would support this initiative, that work was done and that everyone understood the importance, the necessity. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'm once again proposing the inclusion in today's agenda, not to look now, but only today to include in the agenda the bill of Law 7052. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:35:27]] For-200 Mr. Arthur, your offer didn't come up. And we're moving on to the first draft of the Law. This is a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on temporary language permits in the area of ATO and border areas of Ukraine (No. 6565). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:36:08]] For 185 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Ssumar Victoria Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. This bill was not born in our heads, it was born in the ATO zone in fact. And the first ones to talk about him were the Ukrainian military. I opened, like, literally on a radio site that speaks from Lugansk and that listens to our Ukrainian military in the zone of delimitation. I'll read you just one title: Radio Russia, Don, Radio Radio Company, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio, Radio Radio Radio Radio, Radio The incredible number of radio stations deliberately produced by the Russian Federation in the so - called ORDLO areas of Ukraine is not in vain. This is an informational weapon used by Russia there to process the brains of both the Ukrainian military and, of course, the people living in these areas. The idea of our bill is very simple. There's no media market in this area today. Big companies aren't interested in going in there because they can't collect commercials there. We propose today to promote Ukrainians to create local radio and television stations in the border area. The bill deals with the issue of both the ATO and the border regions. But for the second reading, we had some questions with the Self-Help faction. I promise that by the second reading we will be working on these things, and everything about the European Union and the border will be removed. What will be left behind will be the border with the Russian Federation, which is trying very hard on analog frequencies to penetrate Ukrainian territory as an information weapon, as an information propaganda influence. The bill is foreordained.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u66	Please let me finish, 1 minute of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u67	Well, this is our committee, Andry Volodymyrovich. Still, our report, and Danchenko wanted the faction to be simple. The bill foresees an extremely simple thing, and it does not foresee the participation of local speakers who want to speak in the district centers. This is only about the district centers that border with the zone of separation with the Russian Federation in order not to come to Kiev, not to participate in various competitive National Councils so that they do not pay for the licence assembly, but simply to do local radio stations and get permission for a period of 1 year in compliance with Ukraine’s laws. We heard a lot of people out there saying, "We're ready to buy a transmitter, plant two journalists and silence the actual signal from the so-called "LNR", "DNR" and "Russian signal." And we have to promote Ukrainian language by Ukrainian law. Ukrainian language, Ukrainian song and, in fact, Ukrainian ideology. This is the way that will allow us to increase Ukrainian presence in this extremely complex region and decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Now we're going to write two in, two in, and I'm going to give you my word, yes. It's just two committees. So as the record goes on, I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Of course, by supporting the need to resist Russian information aggression in the ATO area and not only, we want to note that this bill can only be adopted in the first reading. And what Mrs. Victoria Sumar immediately confirmed, between the first and second readings, is that it removes the inadequacy of international norms and the Agreement on the European Union. As early as 2010, Ukraine had to move to digital technology, and unfortunately we have not done so yet. We have analog transmitters in all the border areas. So we don't let the countries that introduced digital language, technology 4G and 5G work. In this draft of the bill, "a territory with a special language regime of the border regions of Ukraine", this needs to be removed from the second reading and left only "a line of delimitation with the temporary occupied territories of Ukraine" because such changes conflict with our international commitment to the International Power Union. So once again, I want to emphasize that in the first reading, but for the second reading, all border areas should be cleaned up. So in the first reading, we vote. Victoria Sumar confirmed that we were going to clean it up for the second reading. But in general, we do not vote, only in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u70	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, Block of Petra Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u71	The Peter Prashenko faction will clearly vote in favour of this decision in the first reading with a view to redrafting the clauses that have already been discussed by the speakers who have just spoken. A few weeks ago, a group of 15 Ukrainian national deputies surrounded all areas bordering the aggressor country. And we started this trip from Chernigiv region. We moved to Sumskie, Kharkivsk, Lugansk, Donetsk. And so until the end of the border that borders with the aggressor country at sea. We heard it with our own eyes and ears, talked to people, and we had one reception of citizens in each of these nine areas, and we realized that this was not just a problem in the minds of the drafters. The vast number of territories, especially in the Donetsk region, now has no signal from Ukraine, from Ukrainian broadcasters, which is cohesive, think about the territory occupied by Russian troops temporarily. This bill should remove this issue in part from the stimulation of our television companies, who in difficult times are trying to resist this Kremlin hole, essentially the propaganda channels that Victoria Sumar has already talked about. We vote yes, we get the maximum number of votes, we work quickly, and we pass the law as a whole. Now we have, when we're done for 30 seconds, we're working separately. You know, the President opened one of the towers in Lugansk, literally on Independence Day. And we had Lugansk watching the Ukrainian parade. We must do everything possible and impossible not only to have parades by the end of the year, but everything related to the realities of Ukrainian life seen our citizens in a controlled and temporarily uncontrollable territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u72	Now Semenicha Roman Sergiyovich and then Teteruk Mr. Andry. Now Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, surely, the information war is an important component of any modern hybrid war. And informational weapons are or are not the most important. The Self-Help faction will support this legislative initiative, but in the first reading and with the following observations. First, as my colleague Danchenko has just said, Ukraine has undertaken international commitments, particularly with the European Union, to exclude analogic speech in general. And today, in this way, as we continue to speak in a similar way, we are fundamentally violating all international agreements that we have signed, which can lead to the corresponding consequences. The other one. The drafters propose to extend the law to all border areas. Colleagues, when we talk about fighting the enemy, with temporarily occupied territories, and today we have border areas as many as 16, this does not mean that certain companies in a completely simplified way get permission to actually speak in national languages and are not involved in the upcoming elections. And one last question. If there really are companies today that are willing to invest and make their speech in temporarily occupied territories, call them. I am now speaking publicly to the head of Mrs. Sumar's profile committee, if there are companies that are ready to speak, I don't think there are hundreds or tens of them, then call them what kind of simplified permission if this bill is adopted will allow us to speak tomorrow in the temporarily occupied territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Teteruk Andriy Anatolyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! After starting the new season, after we started to consider important bills for Ukraine, we did not do the same moralally important thing: We did not honor the memory of those who helped our parliament and our country to live. In a previous session, Parliament failed to adopt a decree to honor the memory of our country’s dead defenders. My address from this rostrum was not heard by the president of the country either. Therefore, I offer to the entire Parliament a moment of silence to honor the memory of the dead defenders of our country and to pay due respect and honor to all who continue to work in our Parliament, our country continues to live, dream, and plan its future. Because it is disrespectful that we do not mention those who gave up their lives. On the third anniversary of the Ilowayan events, August 29, no one mentioned anyone who had given up his life. We try to avoid the sad pages of our country, but it is impossible for us to do so. We must remember everyone so that their memory can live with us in our hearts and in our ages. So I propose to honor the moment of silence of all those who have died in defense of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u76	I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u78	So in the discussion now, from the Radical Party of Mosiyczuk, and then from Sümar's lineup. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u79	Dear Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska will support this bill in the first reading. I've heard from colleagues here who are interested in who is an investor in the occupied area of Ukrainian radio broadcasting. So I don't think we should call it that, because tomorrow there's going to be another car crash or another murder and another terrorist attack. But to be honest, it's not just on the eastern front that there's an information and cultural war going on. Right in those moments, the Honourable Minister of Culture, Eugene Nischuk, from the submission of his deputy Tamara Mazur, illegally appoints the head of the Labra Reserve, our Kiev-Pecher laurel, illegally. A person who has nothing to do with science, culture, or anything. We're asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u80	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u81	We ask and demand to stop, stop and not destroy Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian language, and Ukrainian language. And one more thing, please ask colleagues who are going to travel to the border on September 10th to stop and not commit criminal acts against the border guards, because the next "Opoblok" is going to start Yanukovich and Azirov, you're creating a dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u82	So, colleagues, in two minutes we're moving on to a decision, so I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Now, a word for the replication and head of the committee is given to Victoria Sumar. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u83	There were questions from a self-help colleague, I answer. First of all, we agreed that we would leave the border with the Russian Federation until the second reading, where we don't break any deals because Russia didn't turn off the analog, and if we shut it down there, we have only Russian there and we have to be aware of it. We'll clean up the European Union. Second, you asked me specifically what radio stations and television companies. Call your head, for example, the Zolkin Station Lugansk district, if you know this person, and there's a lot of people who know him, or the Majorsk Vyselkina, or Yuri Klimenka, the first deputy of the Luhansk Civil Administration, or Igor Stokoz, who deals with this issue in Donetsk. We're in constant contact with these people and they're going to tell you exactly all the names and all the people who are ready to go today. The house of Lubinets, who is sitting in this room today, a deputy from Walnovah, and he says: "We have people and we're ready to do it today." If we don't do Ukrainian, there will be Russian, please, colleagues, come to the committee and help us with ideas, somehow this white spot, where there is no Ukrainian language in the Donetsk region, is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u84	Please. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, people's deputies, let's go into the hall. So let's move on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian Laws on Temporary Allowances for Speech in the Zone of Anti-Terrorism Operation and Border Areas of Ukraine (No. 6565), based on what we agreed on during the discussion, just on the basis. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:53:55]] For 267 267 – yes. Decision taken. I want a committee of fruitful work for the second reading, and I'm convinced that if it's worked out, we can quickly consider a bill in the second reading. Dear colleagues, we have a five-minute recess, just now there's a finance minister in the room who's stressing the urgency of us being able to put 7052 into the agenda today for the state's general economic situation. He told me that more factions would be consulted. With your permission, I would give the Minister of Finance a minute to explain the significance of the matter for the entire room. Please, one minute, Mr. Daniluk, an explanation of the significance of this question, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! I very much ask you to put in order today the daily draft of Law 7052. This is a government bill that allows us to settle the issue of taxation of government bonds for foreigners. For non-residents. As you know, we have a pretty serious load on the state budget right now, and we're looking for ways to change. reduce this burden to make it evener in order to make more efficient use of taxpayers' money. And now we're watching the market, if we're going to have attractive conditions, we'd like to do an operation that would allow us to reduce the workload for that, we only have to deal with one issue of bond taxation when some bonds are exchanged for others that have never been done in Ukraine's history. We'd like to do it in international practice, in world practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u86	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u87	It's for the benefit of citizens, taxpayers, and the budget, a request for support. Now the attractive conditions, and give us this opportunity, we'll work for the citizens, and in order to reduce the debt burden on our budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u88	Thank you. So, at the request of both the government and the government, I'm going to re-supply the Peter Dustenk Block for inclusion in the agenda of the session and the colleague, and I'm going to ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. If there's a political compromise in the hall, the government's proposal, the GDP finance ministry, will be supported. Not for consideration now, but just for inclusion in the agenda of the day session so that the committee can consider it. So, did all the consultations go well? I can put it to a vote. So, colleagues, it's just so that the committee can look at it now we won't look at it just so the committee can look at it. Ready? All right. So, colleagues, I want to explain the logic to you, we're going to enter into the Education Act at 12.30, and I want to ask the Minister of Education to be here in the hall during the consideration of the whole bill. And I'm asking the head of the Spiowakovsky Committee to prepare, at 12:30, we're immediately in the process of reviewing the Education Act. And now we're going to take two minutes to give the committee a chance to consider draft Law 7052. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. It's just an inclusion so the committee can look at it, because the Southern Committee doesn't look at it without being involved. Do you understand the position? So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting a motion to vote: to include in today's agenda a draft of Law 7052, the importance and importance of which has just been explained by the Supreme Council Minister of Finance from the rostrum. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. Let's support it, colleagues. [[11:59:09]] For 217 Colleagues, well, what's the point, well, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u89	I didn't hear, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u90	We didn't make it. I'm going to put it again, it's just getting into the agenda, so that the committee will consider a matter that needs an immediate solution. There's no politics here, there's no interest. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize and ask everyone to come into the hall. We're not, we're not talking, it's just inclusion. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. I see the deputies are here. So, colleagues, please mobilize. I am voting on the proposal to include in today's agenda a day session to review and make a decision today the draft Law 7052, the essence of which was explained by the Minister of Finance. It is essential for funding and for the work of the Ukrainian government. I ask everyone to vote. I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Can we vote for the factions, please? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Anton, please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues, just to get the session in order to make a decision. Please vote and please support. Voting, voting, colleagues. [[12:01:16]] For 215 Colleagues, the decision is not made. I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I invite everyone into the hall. And we're starting to consider the most extensive, most important law today, is the Education Act. Everyone please be present in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u91	Break time's up. Everyone, please come into the hall and prepare for the draft Education Act, which is the basic bill for today. Are All Ready for Reform? Please come into the hall. I would like to point out that this draft of the Law, 3491-d, is being considered in a second reading. Therefore, there is no need for a separate procedure before it is considered. I would also like to point out that the draft law has a large number of amendments. And I'm counting on the people's deputies not to delay consideration. It would be important for us to be able to make all the adjustments today. I emphasized the Conciliation Council, and I insisted that each of the reforms under consideration be considered in full procedure and in full discussion. It is important that we treat each other honestly and that we can effectively go through all the proposed reforms. So we're going to look at the draft Education Act, number 3491-d. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please and success for all of us in passing the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u92	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people, today is a very important day. I can honestly tell you that I never thought that I would pass such a difficult exam in my life. But today, in one way or another, we will all have to go through, accept, find suitable compromises. Because today you and I are adopting a strategic law that will define philosophy, the ideology of developing education for Ukraine's future for the next 25-30 years. Dear colleagues! Today we're kind of with you in the big stretch. One leg is still in the Soviet era, the other in the 21st century, one part of our consciousness in Soviet times, the other in the 21st century. And that's why this law will determine what generation we're going to be preparing with you today. This is a strategic law that solves the issue, creates the appropriate foundation for the development of educational space. Yes, we all understand very well that just writing a nice piece of law is not enough. Then comes the main part of the work. This is an implementation where there are three important ingredients. It's an organization that should be provided by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a legal one that should ensure synchronization with other laws. Appropriate preparation of the Cabinet’s regulations and the orders of the Ministry of Profiles, which should be applied in Minsk, as well as financially. So we have to view this law as a mediation for all of us who are ready with you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to invest in our children who will create the future. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the committee, the Committee on Science and Education, has done everything possible to ensure that the law is completely open, transparent, honest, with the involvement of all experts, all experts are able to consider it. Nine went to work on this law. So I want to say to everyone that this is a consensus law. It's not one person's law. All the political forces took part in this, working on this law. Dear colleagues, if we're adopting this law, that means we're passing the ball to the field of the Education Department, taking it away from the Ministry of Finance, and starting investing in our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I would like to report an important matter before continuing with Mr. Spiowakovsky's speech. A representative of the committee is now scheduled to read the final proposals agreed upon by the working group and the committee. And then we're going to look at every correction. And so I'm going to ask you, Mr. Spiowakovsky, I'm going to ask you to finish it now. So that he can read the compromise formulations on the key points of the bill under the transcript. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, we're still gonna go after all the amendments. Let's go anyway. Let's, let's explain the logic to the committee representative, and we'll discuss how to be. Please explain the logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, listen, if I read this, you'll just see that how many moments we've taken into account, we've counted them with the Ministry of Education, so that we don't break the spikes on these issues right now, we've taken them into account. You'll listen. Absolutely, yes, I'm going to read it under the transcript. Otherwise, if I don't read it now, you know, we're starting a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u95	Does that make sense? Colleagues, we're still going to go after all the amendments. Let's give it a chance, it's a very fundamental reform, and we'll be able to complete the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to take into account the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority and the factions of Parliament expressed during consultations with them, allow me to use the transcript to make a few suggestions to the text of the bill. Moreover, this text is clearly aligned with the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science. First. The first sentence of the third part of the first part of article 7 reads as follows: [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'll read it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u97	Alexander Volodymyrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, so first of all, I'm giving the order that the text that he was about to read from the committee should be reproduced and distributed to all the national MPs. And we're going to give each amendment a single word to the committee's representative. I think no one will deny it if we give the floor to the Minister of Education, who is present and will be present throughout the discussion. And on each of those lines, we're going to be able to have separate discussions on them as we come to them. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich one minute finishes the performance. These corrections, I think within minutes 20 will multiply and distribute to all the deputies so that everyone can see them. And we will discuss each of them as we arrive. Finish the speech and let's go to the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a big request: to make our work constructive, I have already said, we have taken all the amendments into account. 1098 amendments we've taken into account, that's 70 percent, that's another one, that's consensus. Then there are two scenarios: or we, if we don't adopt this law, we're going to continue to actually live under the Education Act, which was created in Soviet times. The Ministry of Finance will continue to be hand-in-hand, despite all respect for it, to continue to decide on the philosophy of development, which will be passed on to the local budget, how much to give money and so on, how many scholarships there should be in colleges and so forth. So, dear fellows, I invite everyone to a constructive position, and after that for myself to say, either I vote today and I'm giving you the opportunity to move on, or we're going back to Soviet times. Thank you, and I look forward to a constructive job.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you. I also want to point out that there are 1705 rights together, 607 left. And I'm counting on you to be able to discuss this in a constructive manner, and at the end of the committee head, you should keep an eye on the discussion, Mr. Spiowakovsky, so that you can point out in the end what amendments we need to agree on. I'll read it, colleagues, only the corrections that are rejected. Anyone who wants to make any other amendment for confirmation or talk about by raising their hand, I'm going to give my word. Here we go. Please be prepared by the right-wing authors. The first amendment that's been rejected is Amendment No. 6, Spiowakovsky. Do you insist on it? No, it's not. Don't insist. The next amendment, which is rejected, is the 16th National MP of Spiowakovsky. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Next. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment 21, People's Chamberlain. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 22nd, Blackwolf Tetjana. Don't insist. 24th, Cream. Don't insist. 25th, Singerkowski. Don't insist. We've got work to do, I'll tell you. 30th, Singakovsky. Don't insist. 32nd Wesselova. Don't insist. 37th, Dusty. Don't insist. 45th, Marchenko. Don't insist. 50th, Taras Kremen. Don't insist. 58th, Constantavich. Don't insist. 61st, Cream. Don't insist. 62nd, Spermackowski. Don't insist. 69th, Screepnik. Don't insist. 73rd, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 110th, Bilozer. Don't insist. 117th, Blackwolf Tetjana. Don't insist. 93rd. I heard. 93rd, Kugel. 99th, Yvchenko. First it's 93rd, Kugel. Please, 93 revisions, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u100	Mrs. Greenevich, please! Mrs. Greenevich, I'm asking you very much to hear me. 93rd Amendment. It's written, essentially. I want everyone to hear in the villages, villages, small towns, which are provided for vocational and technical education and counted, written on the basis of what the state subsidy is going to be. The first and second categories of accreditation, we know, 100 percent of the state, the most painful schools. Why did I take the floor? Mr. Secretary, Mr. Head of the Committee, do you know that now, throughout Ukraine, teachers of trade and technology pay half their salary, but the Labour Committee checks the work and fines them 40-50,000 dollars for not getting 3,200 dollars, but 1,700 dollars. Please, Mrs. Lila! Ms. Lila, I'm asking you to bring this matter to the government. And you as a head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u101	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u102	We've protected the technicians and the tradespeople that you've transferred to the district budget and we're against it, but subsidies have to cover their needs 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Singerkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u104	Thank you for asking, absolutely correct, but we have agreed so with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry, that in manual mode, they are looking at the local budget balance, and if it does not cover these expenses further through the budget committee, and because of the government's decision, these funds are being allocated, this mechanism is now working.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u105	Let's move on, shall we? I can hear you. 98th, it'll be Krulko. 99th, Ivchenko. Please, Krulko, 98th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u106	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Members of the Government! I find it absolutely unacceptable that students who receive special education in vocational schools are given secondary education in the same vocational schools as the Constitution and the State, and are transferred to local budgets, to finance vocational education. So I fully support my colleague, Alexander Kugel, who stressed that this law should provide for payment and funding of vocational schools from educational subsidies. Why? The logic in this is very clear because in these institutions students get secondary education, secondary education is financed by the state budget. That's why I'm here, especially right now, for the Ministry of Finance, there's a minister of finance. Since secondary education is financed from the government budget, the schools in this part should be financed by an educational subsidy. This is a position that must be supported by the Cabinet of Ministers and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u107	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u108	and Fatherland will support only those initiatives that will provide for the education grant of vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. Now, I want to say this common position, this cost is set up, and this component is funded for all the kids who are learning in vocational education, and this component is funded directly from the budget. I. No, all these costs are foreseen, as I recall, 1.9 billion dollars is the money that is set up to finance this component.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u110	Let's get this straight. I'll give everyone a word. Yvchenkovi, then I'll give you my word. Please, one minute Greenwich, Mrs. Lila, to explain this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! This law provides for the possibility of various subsidies. I want to say that we already have a grant for general secondary education in the sector of vocational education, and in the factories, it's completely financed for the acquisition of general secondary education on the basis of a subsidy from the state budget. Instead, another part of the professional component is financed by a regional order. The budget code may define other subsidies by law does not preclude the creation of other subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u112	Got the answer, yeah. At the end of the 99th Amendment, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Seventy-nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u113	79 Amendments. I want to remind you, the discussions that were going on in this room with regard to vocational and technical education are practically the beginning of this Parliament's work. You know that for 24 years of independence, vocational technical education was seen as an integral part of an important state education system and was always funded from the State budget. That is why 79 laws clearly state that the right to free education is also guaranteed for extra-school, vocational education from the state budget in accordance with the established law. I want to make it clear that if this situation is not rectified right now, and professional technical education will continue to destroy our faction will not be able to vote in favour of this reform. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u114	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u115	I ask this question to be discussed separately and to make the right adjustments from the voice, which will reverse the increase in the support of vocational and technical education.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u116	Please, Singerkowski. Lila Grinevich. Mrs. Lila, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u117	So there's a 79-way, and there's a government budget and a preschool grant and a non-school grant that's never been in this country. And it needs an enormous amount of money and a redistribution between. income between local budgets and the state budget. Because we can't finance the government budget by giving up so much income. Preschool and out - of - school schools were always funded by local budgets. For professional and technical reasons, today it is supported by a grant for general secondary education to pay for general secondary education from the state budget. But, indeed, there is a part that is paid from local budgets. And in this part, we can regulate and reduce the burden by additional budget subsidies or by increasing the volume of the National Programme of Support for State Value Professions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u118	And please, one minute from the Committee of Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u119	Dear Julia Volodymyrical, thank you for asking. I want to add to what the minister said, to say that there's a certain philosophy when we're dividing the specialities that are funded by the state budget, so they're needed by the country as a whole, part of the specialties that have to be worked to secure a regional order. For example, in the Herson region, we've actually started a human capital program where the district council and the local budgets are partly funding this and plus, we're funding a component of general secondary education. So today, trade is getting, it's diversified from three sources -- it's a government budget, it's a local budget, and it's a district budget -- that's how it's done. Julia Volodymyrna, there we have to understand that unfortunately, there were a lot of vocational schools that began to work just inefficiently, in fact there were specialties that no one needed, such as a computer set operator and so on. So this is how the reform is started.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u120	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u121	To make sure that the administration selects, takes away the specialties that are not necessary in the labour market today and leave only what Ukraine needs in general and in territories separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u122	So we had a discussion. And I wonder if I'm satisfied with the discussion? Is that really the answer? And then. What's the offer? Sound. Julia Volodymyr, please give me a minute. What's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I think that the question of vocational and technical education in this room needs to be decided strategically by all factions, by all deputies, together with the government. If there are any specialties in professional and technical institutions that don't use demand or that are obsolete, exclude them from the list and don't recruit people there, there are no questions. But it's practically unacceptable to exclude vocational and technical education from funding. And once again, in this room, up to 300 votes were cast for the renewal of funding from the state budget for vocational and technical education. And we have to go back and do it right, in honor and in conscience, because education in virtually every country in the world is the responsibility of the state, and the state is funding it. Please open the Constitution of Germany, one of the first articles is the State guarantees education.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u124	Colleagues, me. No, we're done here. Why do I give my word and ask you to make an offer? For the order of consideration in the second reading is foreshadowed when an amendment is made. Of, for example, 79th, partially counted. Maybe there's a "please fully consider the amendment," "please reject the amendment," and then there's a vote. So actually make the right statement, what is the weighty proposal that I, as Head, have to put to the vote in the session room. Ten seconds, take your position, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u125	Our faction suggests that vocational and technical education is financed by the state budget. All right, dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u126	Thank you. It's not 79th straight. This is about the 79th revision that has to be formulated. To take full account of the wording. Then, Mrs. Lila and Mr. Singerkowski. I'll put the next sentence to the vote. Amendment 79, National Deputy Timoshenko, was taken into account in part. Author's requirement to take it into account. Is it going to be the right thing to do? Yes. And I'm voting on the proposal of National Deputy Timoshenko that the 79 amendments she made should be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:58:24]] For 105 The decision is not made. Next, Ivchenko, what's the correction? 99th Amendment, Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u127	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to put 99 in confirmation. This amendment cancels the free provision of textbooks, and only textbooks remain. This will have a negative impact on the quality of the educational process. The textbooks are textbooks for notebooks, regulations, task books and so on. So we're going to have a situation where children whose parents can't buy it or buy it will learn without these regulations, contour maps and so on. I propose that we put this bill in place for confirmation and not back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u128	Please, who's going to comment? Siewakovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. I just want to say that textbooks are a mandatory part, which is first of all an appropriate expertise and correspondingly a college of the Ministry of Education and Science. So this manual, which is, let's say, recommended for use there. All other manuals have a status, whether they can be used or not. If we don't leave it, we're going to have a problem with what we're going to have, like, 100 textbooks of different authors, and that's how we have to finance it. There will simply be conflict. So I'm asking you how to address this question, or we're going to have problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u130	The minister won't comment. So you understand the logic of the committee's representative. And maybe we can actually, if we don't get a vote for confirmation, we can put the problem into the law. 30 seconds, please, Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u131	Thank you for explaining. But as I understand it, these textbooks are used in the educational process. So kids have these teaching aids in one way or another. If there are homework and children whose parents are unable to buy, what will happen then? So today we're making things worse for those children whose parents can't provide their teaching process with these teaching aids.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u132	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Vadim? They insist on voting. So now I'm going to put Amendment 99 to the vote for confirmation. I would like to emphasize that in order for the committee's proposal to be supported, we have to raise 226 votes. And so I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to take up their jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the 99th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Cremen. The committee requests that the amendment be supported. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:01:55]] For-152. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I think we're going to have these situations. I think we're going to consider this bill before lunch. You can consult with each other. And if you find an understanding, we can go back to her and make a separate decision about her. If you have an understanding on this point. So I'm going to keep going, I'm going to keep calling the amendments that are rejected. And whoever wants confirmation, I'm going to announce them. I finished at 117. 117th, Blackwolf Tetjana. Don't insist. 121st, Spiowakovsky. Don't insist. Wesley's. Don't insist. That was 134th. That was 134th. What's that? 126. Please, Moses, 126.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u133	Dear national deputies, good afternoon. We've actually moved on, and I'd like everyone to listen very carefully to the language articles. In fact, with the hands of the people's deputies who are part of the Self-Help faction, they are primarily trying to introduce Russian second language into the teaching process in Ukraine. And this article foresees, rather than learning the language of the national minority, rather than learning the language of the Russian national minority, read, in Ukraine. People good, during the third year of the war with Moscow's aggressor, do you want to introduce Russian into Ukraine with our hands? You have no conscience. Is this called Euro-Integration and Protection of Ukraine? So I'm asking for confirmation to put, starting from 126 revisions to 202 revisions, each set, so that I don't count 126th, 127th and so on, to 202nd. And it is appropriate to support or not to support this amendment. It's my turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u134	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u135	Where this right provides for the Ukrainianization of the educational process, not the return to the Moscow yoke. It provides that only learning the language of one subject, one subject, and not learning that language. People, don't ruin Ukrainian statehood with a good education reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I have a request, and I will comment, and the Minister of Education, we have an agreement on this. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that we have held 3, especially 3 round tables in these 10 months, January, May and June. On these round tables we have just found this sufficiently fragile compromise, which is between ensuring the rights of national minorities and that Ukrainian language should be the language of the educational process. So, dear colleagues, if we start moving these things now, we can get the right imbalance and then the other side won't vote. Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u138	Please, Lilia Greenevich. Turn on the microphone. Colleagues, I'm here before Lilia talks. Wait a second. I'm a proponent of discussing this question, so I'm going to give you a replica that you called so that we can make a decision that's going to be supported by the hall. Because it's technically now 80 amendments one by one, and I'm more of a proponent of getting us into a compromise that we're all going to agree with. Let's try to find him in the discussion. Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to listen to the arguments in the 7th article, because they cause the biggest debates with different factions in different aspects. Thus, our logic in the 7th article was that we should adhere to the Constitution while changing the roadside situation in our minority schools today. What is the situation? In fact, in minority schools only the language is studied as an object. And as a result, we have minority schools that come out of which children who don't speak Ukrainian learn in our Ukrainian community institutions. In this regard, we, without violating the rights of the national minorities that are in the Constitution, where there is a direct rule in the Constitution that they are bound by law. I quote, "it guarantees the right to learn a native language or to learn a native language." We put it in the Constitution, but then we wrote down how this should be done in terms of protecting the interests of these children so that they can speak the English language freely. That is why this amendment has not yet been read by the committee’s head, for we are now printing so that each of you will receive and see this text of a language article. Like we wrote. Now, look, there's an article in the committee, and there's an amendment. I read, colleagues: "those who belong to the indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine are guaranteed the right to learn in their own language," and then, "in addition to Ukrainian" is the decision of the Constitutional Court, "in the municipal institutions of preschool, general secondary education." And now, attention! It adds, "with a gradual increase at each of the next levels of this education, the number of subjects studied in the Ukrainian language."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u140	Let the Minister of Education finish. Please, just one more minute, Lila, so we can finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u141	Let me finish. When a child, a child who has grown up, grows up in a Hungarian or Romanian environment, comes to the 1st grade, he can't teach all classes in Ukrainian right away. And by the way, please don't be misled by minority schools. They were here at the beginning of independence. And now we're making this article a revolutionary norm that they're going to know Ukrainian. Yeah, baby, when she's growing up, she's already learned Ukrainian. In the 5th - 9th grade, we're starting to introduce other subjects in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u142	Finish it. Finish it. One more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u143	At a senior school stage, the child will teach virtually all subjects in the national language and just a few of them his own native language, his own literature as separate subjects. Therefore, I am convinced that we are making tremendous progress in this article in the interests of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens and children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u145	I would like to stress once again that the committee has conducted the whole procedure very clearly in order for us to adopt this text. We understand that this is a compromise, the minister of education stressed that this is what is starting the process of Hungary's, Romanian schools, by the way, Russian schools, including those in Herson's territory, moving gradually into Ukrainian, because I personally think that a child who doesn't start learning English from the elementary classes, this child will be a Russian language because this article is what makes it possible to start this process, that's all. And what's more, I just want to remind you of the three round tables and the 5-0 vote in the presence of the 150 experts who took part in this. Dear colleagues, you are now to vote for confirmation or not, but we must understand that we have passed appropriate procedures to bring it into the dome now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u146	Thank you. Replica, Berezuk of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u147	Brutal lying over the past 20 years is just destroying Ukraine, so I'm calling on MPs who wear embroidered shirts, and they're actually hiding brutal ignorance and inability to read in Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u148	Colleagues, let's talk about how we should be. I would advise you, colleagues, on this issue, which causes the most debate, in a minute, each faction, to be discussed. Because I'll tell you what the thing is, now you can technically put 80 amendments and go through them -- it won't solve if we don't find consensus in the final version, in the final decision. And I'm proposing, actually, on this issue, on the 7th, which was one of the biggest discussions and where the committee found a compromise decision for us to exchange our thoughts. Is such an offer accepted? In a minute, huh? From factions. It's not like we're not going to go to the general position. Please, Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a procedure. You have just heard the speech of the minister of education, who said that the national deputies have not yet seen the new version of this article. In fact, it does not yet exist in nature but is printed. How can we now consider and vote for something when we haven't read this amendment, a new one, unlike a comparative table? In fact, the people's deputies have two days under the Rules, Your Honor, do not violate the Rules, please grant me the right to study with the experts this bill, which has just been put to the vote, then this will be a follow-up procedure. And beyond the procedure of introducing this amendment, I will still insist on confirming these rights -- it's my constitutional right, asking for confirmation or not. Please grant me my rights as a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u150	Thank you. I want to remind you that in the basic report, actually, the head of the committee wanted to read these formulations that the committee had made. But by how much was the proposal from the deputies to sound it in order of arrival, I was given the commission to print these compromise proposals, distribute them in the hall, and in fact all the deputies in the hall now have these proposals. If you insist, I will place each of those verification rights as provided by the Rules. But beyond that, we have to take a general position in the final decision-making by law, and that's why I believe and believe that I have the right to ask the factions to exchange their thoughts in the debates and debates. So you have in your hands the formulation that the Joint Committee of the Ministry has proposed. And please give it to me. They're coming, they're coming. And, after a minute, who insists, Krulko, Fatherland, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u151	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u152	From Peter Dustenk's Block, who? Oksana Bilozer, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I have a question for the Minister of Education and for those deputies who applaud the Minister of Education. There's two concepts: "Study security" and "Study security." The provision of education is a guarantee to the State as a state-owned process of providing education in the form of a national language. As far as security is concerned, "learning" is the support of the state, a partner state in national minorities, which is provided by the Constitution, to which you refer, their language rights, traditions and cultures. So we mix the two concepts, we make the surrogacy and we make the assumptions, and we really wash the foundations of state-building, we can't manipulate it today, because it's because of our identity, which we've lost for 25 years, and there's a war on Donbass, and war and compromises today should not be the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u154	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u155	One minute, I've got an update, 131 revisions. I'd like to read it to you right now and vote it out, and then these two concepts in this basic law will be balanced in their positions. Can I read it? So 133 is right. 133 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u156	Everyone has, everyone sees not to read. Everyone has, that is, you insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u157	I'll read it, no, stop it's mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u158	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u159	I'm saying my paper 131 sounds like this: in article 7 of the law, the first part of the paper is: "The language of the educational process in educational institutions is the national language" is not a manipulation of Ukrainian or some other language, but a national language. Next, persons belonging to national minorities are granted the right to learn their native language in educational institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u160	Thanks, buddy, you got it. It's from the Julia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u161	Dear friends, I think today we have the consequences of a weak policy that has been pursued to strengthen the Ukrainian language in our own country. And this compromise that put Ukrainian language on the sidelines for some kind of arrangement that wasn't really for the benefit of Ukraine. And so I propose an amendment to Mrs. Bilozer's vote and support the entire Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u162	Yes, People's Front, Cream, Taras Kremen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u163	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I, indeed, as a member of the committee and head of the education subcommittee, confirm that the language discussion at our meetings took an extremely long time. And there's absolute support from not only public organizations, academic institutions, but, of course, the professional environment. But you have to look at reality, we really have places of compact residence of national minorities and they're in different parts of our Ukraine. This applies not only to Hungarians, but not only to Romanians, but also to Crimean Tatars, who are now deprived of the right to reside in their historical Fatherland, but who today must have guarantees. But I would like to pay attention to the final version of this article and not confuse political speculation with those legislative initiatives that have been spoken and supported by our committee unanimously. So please be as careful as possible and pay attention to the beginning of the 7th article, which is supported and I think it is shared by the majority. The language of the teaching process is national.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Chubarov. One minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I would like to say, really also to urge us to be very careful. I'm asking myself, what do we want? First, do we want schools to exist in Ukraine that are not familiar with national language? No, we don't want schools like that, that's the first. Second of all, do we want one of these? Do we want to ban the teaching of our native language by introducing full instruction in the Ukrainian language? No, I don't think we want that kind of school. [[Applause]] So, my dears, if you accept now, let's say, Mrs. Bilozer's amendment, we're killing Crimean Tatar language again. We were already banned in Soviet times! I'm sure, and I call you, I call you. The editorial proposed by the Minister of Education and the relevant committee is today not a compromise – it is the form of the most successful one that ensures full control of everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u166	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u167	Full knowledge of the whole territory of the national language, and respect for fundamental human rights. And so, all of them: Romanian children, Crimean Tatars, Hungarian, they, learning their language alongside the national language, they also speak the national language completely. But the editorial given by the minister of education, with a gradual increase in every level of Ukrainian language, tells us what's on the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u168	Please finish, but it's been 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u169	It's not like we've had kids in high school in the last few years of school, completely learning Ukrainian. So I'm asking you to support the editor of the education minister and the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u170	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to say that we're not going to have an endless discussion on this, we're going to be determined. I'll give the factions to everyone. Please, Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party. I'll give you the Overlord and I'll give you Illenko. All right, that'll be a complete list.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u171	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We'll support Mrs. Oksana's work. With all due respect, with all due respect to the Crimean Tatar people, I would like to make the following figures. Last year, the ministry spent 3 million dollars to ensure the passage of the UNO in Tatar. This was used by as many as 8 people. Is that a rational expense? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, I'm over Irina now. Turn on the microphone, one minute. Then Illenko, and then Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, of course, and the situation that has now arisen in Ukraine, with the use and use of national language, it is sad. On the other hand, we can't pay any attention to the citizens of Ukraine, our neighbors with you, we can't ignore the Carpathians, the Chernivecians, the Hersonians, the Harkish. And actually, the committee's editorial, which has just been handed out and reads under the transcript, Mr. Spiowakovsky is helping even in schools that are currently teaching in the languages of the national minorities to improve the situation with the Ukrainian language. And we will no longer have that situation when children leave school cannot speak English. Moreover, there is no doubt that we need to introduce and consider a bill on state language that tells us that the state is funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u174	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u175	which tells us that external independent evaluation, regardless of the language of education, should be made up exclusively in the national language, will be an additional incentive and element for all education to be Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u176	Thank you. Illenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u177	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you because believe this vote today it will work for decades to come. And now we have no right to make a mistake. We respect all national minorities, we have to guarantee all human rights, we have to guarantee national minorities the right to learn their own language, we have to do so, we can't do that. But we can't preserve the ruse of Ukrainian education. We cannot continue to pay for a situation where Ukrainian children are not able to learn English properly. The war began, including the absence of Ukrainian schools in Donbas and Crimea. That there was a total ruse. War came first, Russian tanks came. And where there's Ukrainian, Russian tanks won't pass! This is the main issue today. Let's not make a mistake. Protect Ukrainian language and the rights of all national minorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u178	Please, Vladimir Litwin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u179	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I read this final version for the year 5.09.17 and I have to say that the committee did not approve this version. Anyway, I don't know. The other one. The wording proposed is extremely blurry. You listen, "The right to learn in the native language is guaranteed next to the Ukrainian language," and then you say, "that everyone at the next level of this education and the number of subjects studied in the Ukrainian language will increase." Would you please say that means they won't study in Ukrainian? So there's a specific offer without emotion. This article is now missing, conducting consultations, not a roommate, but a consultation. And I think if we have any doubts, we're going to put this article on the third reading. Let's hurry slowly so we don't do anything stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u180	Thank you. My colleagues, I agree with Mr. Volodymyr here. We need to act very carefully and rationally. Look what we got now. We have a committee and ministry proposal on our hands. We have a proposal from Oksana Bilozer. And in fact, it's probably two positions that I should put to the vote. Or anything else. Colleagues, look. Come on, now, listen to me. I can now put both proposals to the vote, and I can do so, as Mr. Vladimir has advised. We're obviously not going to be finished by lunch. This amendment is to be postponed. At lunchtime, an additional consultation was held, feeling the mood of the hall. Or even so I'd say. Maybe take two ratings to see the mood of the room. Now I'm going to give Lily Greenwich. And after lunch, I'd like to make a formal proposal. If we just put both of us to the vote right now, I think we're both going to fail. I think the worst thing is when we don't make any decisions in this area. Ms. Lilia, please advise us on how to deal with this situation. Greenwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the proposal to postpone this amendment now and hold separate consultations. I only ask you, during your consultations, to ask yourself this question: After this vote, or after this vote, the amendment that Mrs. Oksana, Mrs. Oksano, has announced, with all due respect, I myself would like to be able to endorse this article in such an editorial. And it would be best if in the Education Act we could simply refer to language legislation that is normal in the country. But I want to ask you now, look at this amendment from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution. Because what I'm most afraid of is that then because the Constitution fails to comply with this amendment, the Education Act, which contains all the reform, will not be signed. Because if you delete words, the direct rules of the Constitution, and you delete them, we're going to have an unconstitutional norm in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u182	Thank you. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, we have felt so strongly that this position is exactly what will separate us. In fact, we have two positions. If we accept Mrs. Oksana's position, we come out of a very clear position that the border passes in the brain and in the head of every person. And if we want the border to be there, the national language should be the language of learning. If we come out of this real situation that Ukraine is in, we need to understand that we need a scenario that we need to run a Ukrainianization where people really don't speak Ukrainian, speak, for example, Russian or Hungarian, or Romanian. Dear colleagues, what we are now solving, we are solving the problem of two scenarios: either we are making a decision today and we are putting a stop to the debate about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u184	30 seconds. So, colleagues, I want to make this decision now. Without rejecting the fact that every amendment will continue to go on in order to feel the mood of the hall, I will now put two proposals on the rating vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Oksana, line up, Bilozer. Maybe there's a compromise, tell me, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u185	I'm going to say this: 26 years ago, if we were referring to standards like my law, to this day Ukraine would be the only one and we wouldn't have had a war in the east of Ukraine. That's the first one. The second thing I'd like to say. It's not just my amendment, it's the right and the requirement of all social organizations and the Ukrainian people. Third. And for this amendment, there is an explanation of the Constitutional Court, which defines these concepts. So I insist on voting on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u186	Thank you. No one's questioning the vote, Mrs. Oksana. No one will question it, it will be put to the vote. We are trying here to find a solution that will unite the hall. And that's why I'm saying we can go technically. I think it would now be right for us to put both proposals on the rating vote so we can see what the mood of the hall as a whole is. Then, my opinion will be, my position will be to defer this question and during the lunch break come together and try to find a solution. But if any of those proposals are going to get 226, maybe we'll make a decision. Colleagues, then, are there any clear positions? Now I'm going to put two positions on the rating vote so that we can feel the support in the hall and feel how the hall reacts to one or the other proposal. So the first proposal is the one that was formed on the basis of the committee and the ministry that you all have in the given materials, and I'm not going to read it, as I've talked about both Greenewicz and Spiowakovsky and Chubarov. And the other one, which one. 131st Bilozer we've even read under the transcript to make it clear to everyone. Now I'm going to put two of them on a rating vote. Ratings, just for orientation in the hall. First, I make a proposal from the committee and the Ministry. Anyone who supports the position of the committee and the ministry please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, rating vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:33:02]] For-160. And the next 131 amendments to Oksana Bilozer, which was read under the transcript, were all heard of. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Ratings, ratings. Please. [[13:33:31]] For 196 196. Colleagues, at this point, none of these positions are the majority in the room. Each of us, many of us here, we, well, have given up a lot of power to protect the Ukrainian language. And I think it would be the right thing to do, if this proposal, which we've heard, were to try to find a common solution during the break, would be the right thing to do. Do you agree with that, Minister? Do you agree, Mr. Szyowakovsky? So I'm saying, right now, I've got a vote on both of them that won't be accepted. I have an offer, 7 article try from 2 to 4 o'clock to find a solution. If we don't find it, we're going to put all the choices we have now, if we don't find them. But I am convinced that Parliament, the government, must try to find this compromise. Is there a general agreement? Because the worst part is when we don't take anything, and that's the worst part. I have an offer, from due date to lunch, and now I'm going after all the other amendments. If I have one problem to complete, and if we don't work out at lunch, we'll have a chance to make a decision. All right, guys? Let's not do this law, but do it. Let us look for those positions that will unite us. Mr. Musai, may I? Mr. Musai! Mr. Musai, can I set your positions after lunch and now follow the other orders? Yes, I promise, all proposals will be put to the vote. Yes. Yes. And now we're going after all the other amendments so that we can understand for ourselves what we're on. We agreed that this was a promise and a word. Excuse me? I'm going to read the papers all over again. Okay? 110 Edit Oksana Bilozer. Please. It's just the language changes we're having after lunch, the language. 110th, Oksana Bilozer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u187	If we're talking about creating a new education system today, a new school, we should probably set standards in the law that would determine what my 110 revisions are, that one of the main tasks of public policy in the field of education is to support modern learning technologies, to fully inform schools and the learning process, rather than to make schools run after MPs and demand computer classes, to introduce innovative technologies and, most importantly, including, online learning -- we're setting this right standards so that someone doesn't invent at the local level what suits them and what doesn't fit and what we should plan as standards already. So I urge you to reverse and vote: online education, modern technology as the standards of modern Ukrainian school.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u188	An understandable explanation. Let's put to the vote the amendment of the 110th People's Deputies of Bilozore. Please be supportive. Who's in? [[13:36:59]] For-162 Your amendment is not supported. Let's move on. 117th, Auntie Blackwall. Don't insist. 121st, Spiowakovsky. Don't insist. 134th, Wesselova. Fun doesn't insist. 151st, Bilozer. Now, I announced in 151, the head of the Supreme Council said we're up to 110, you're saying no. I'll be right back from eight to 110, I hear. So, Andrew, now I'm going to correct all of this, and I announced 151, do you insist, Mrs. Oksana? Don't insist. Then I'm going back to the eighth now, I've heard, honourable colleagues, now, one minute, now, now, dear, one minute. 16th, Singerkowski, doesn't insist. 21st, the Kremlin, doesn't insist. 22nd, Blackwall Tetian, does not insist. The 24th, the Kremlin, doesn't insist. 25th, Singerkowski, doesn't insist. 30th, Singerkowski, doesn't insist. 32nd Wesselova, don't insist. 37th, Alexi Dusty, don't insist. I'll take a walk without making any remarks. So you're me then. Now. Now, dear fellows, one minute we are now aware of how we are moving forward. Dear colleagues! I want to emphasize once again that we're postponing this entire article until 4:00. And we're starting to move along the corners starting with article eight, and we're already talking about revisions. Still, this is page 83, according to our rights, so open it, please, and we are moving on in line with the eighth article. So 207 is the amendment of the people's MP Marchenka. Don't insist. 208th, article, People's Deputy of Lithuania. Vladimir Mikhailovich, insists. Please, Mr. Litwin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u189	I will not insist on the amendments, realizing that they will not find support, but on one condition and a request, when we consider the Final Position, that you give me the opportunity to make your proposals for amendments to the Final Position, there will be two proposals. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u190	Thank you so much for the constructive. Surely, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, you do not insist. 212, you don't insist. 215th, Mrs. Blackwall Tetian. Don't insist. 217th, Mr. Spiowakovsky. Don't insist. We're just going back to the 7th article after 16th, and there's going to be 150 revisions to 210. 251, Baby, are you insisting? 251, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u191	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team supports the need for education reform in Ukraine. But not such a reform that will deprive Ukrainian children of the opportunity to learn. For example, on September 1, I was in the village of Ponora in the Talalai district of Chernigovishte, where there were rural children. Forced school closures and the possibility of schooling. Education reform is not a budget economy for education of Ukrainian children, it is a quality and accessible education. We have three principles: first, we insist on eleven years of education, not twelve years; second, we insist on raising teachers' salaries not for five years, but by 25 percent from October 1st to the minimum; and thirdly, the Radical Party requires the restoration of state funding for vocational and technical education institutions. State policy in the workforce has to be mandatory, these are our three key.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u192	However, I should point out that your amendment 251 refers to vocational secondary education. Should I put her to the vote or are you insisting? 253, Singer. Don't insist. 254, Popov. Please turn on the Igor Popov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, the support of this amendment will allow us to maintain an 11-year term in high school. Realistically, there is no basis for an increase in the number of children in high school for a year. The authors refer to Western experience, but even in European countries, children in some countries learn 12 years, in others 11 years. They're 11 years old in the Czech Republic, they're 16-17 years old in France, and these countries are quite successful at preparing their footage. I know that many of my colleagues have attended circuit, district, teacher conferences, participated in festivities, talked to both parents and teachers. Tell me, who asked you to support the increase in education to the age of 12? Let's not make a marriage agency out of school, let's let the kids continue their vocational training after 11 years at school. And I would like to point out that not even adopting this law or re-reading it again will still allow the government to increase the pay to the teachers we are asked to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u194	Let's put to the vote the amendment of the People's Deputy Popov, 254, concerning the terms of education. Please support who's in favor. [[13:44:20]] For the 110. I did not find the necessary support for the repair. 261st is next, Singer. Don't insist. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, 262nd. Don't insist on how he told us before. 263rd, Spiowakovsky. Don't insist. 269, Singerkowski. Don't insist. 272th, Spiowakovsky. Don't insist. 275, Spermackowski. Don't insist. 276, Baby. Don't insist. 277, Singerkowski. Don't insist. 279, Baby. Don't insist. 280th, Silicon. Don't insist. 281, Spermackowski. Don't insist. 282, Baby. Don't insist. 283, Odarchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u195	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this amendment is aimed at ending the government’s policy of translating the problem of secondary education into local self - government. The secondary education management function is delegated to delegated bodies. And here we have to make it clear that the State has to finance secondary education. And now you're proposing to the authorities of local self-government to pay for this education. We suggest that secondary education should be financed by state budget subsidies in full, not limited to how this is happening now. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u196	The explanation is understandable. Please vote on who supports this amendment. 283rd People's Deputies of Odarchenka. [[13:46:27]] For-89 I did not find the necessary support for your correction. 287th National MP Lazko. Don't insist. 289, Baby. Don't insist. And I'm talking to you, and you're not insisting. When you insist, that's what everyone hears, Oleg. Please, 287th. Oleg insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u197	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues from most, of all those who are voting for this amendment, the Radical Party team insists on one thing: the teacher's work should be paid with dignity. Because it's a very hard job, and we're all sitting here, including thanks to our wonderful teachers. And that's why we don't support the proposals that we have today for five years to raise the teacher's salary, because as long as the smooth, thin one dies. As long as you pay teachers for five years, there will be no teachers left in Ukraine. And teach whom? So we insist that teachers' salaries be raised by at least 20 percent from October 1st, 25. Another 25 percent since the new year. And the key is the restoration of the vocational and technical education system and the preservation of the 11th river. You want us to have 18-year-old pregnant girls out of school? Stop sitting there and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u198	Dear colleague, this is not a bit about pregnancy, it's about creating educational districts. Put her to the vote? Dear colleague, your amendment regarding the education districts to be put to the vote? Don't put it. Let's move on. 289, People's Deputies Lazko. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 290th National MP Lazko. Don't insist. 292th, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please turn on the microphone, Mrs. Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u199	Fellow Members, you know that the process of uniting communities into united territorial communities is now under way. And in unification, part of the schools that are located in remote villages are eliminated. Clearly, this process is unfair, and it is immoral. In recent years alone, more than a thousand schools have been closed and 65,000 educators have been released. So at least in this article, we would like to place a safety guard that is the primary school, that is, that is, a school of support, an education facility that has a convenient location for transportation and is placed here in parentheses (up to 15 km). Since a child needs to be taken to school for up to 30 miles [40 and 50 km] in unification of local communities, it is absolutely impossible for parents to do so. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u200	Thank you, Reverend Julia Volodymyr, for explaining. Continue? 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u201	I'm asking the people's deputies to vote for this right now because they're closing schools that are more than 40 kilometers away from the resistance school. Please, five to 15 kilometers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u202	The explanation is understandable. Who's in? I ask you to support this amendment, Mrs. Timoshenko. Amendment 292. Amendment 292 refers to support schools, Mrs. Timoshenko. Please, we vote who supports. [[13:50:28]] For-129 I didn't get the necessary amount. Next 293rd National Deputy Laska. Don't insist. 294th, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u203	I'm very sorry that some of the national deputies don't care that a child needs to be picked up in the village at four o'clock in the morning to drive 40-50 kilometers to school. What a pity for such indifference! But I would like us to vote now, too, on an amendment that also applies to the same things. But the closing of schools also takes place when a rural school is called a branch. So if you're going to turn school into a branch, you have to get permission from the community. Otherwise this school is just going to be clean. I would like to place 294 applications for confirmation and not allow the school to be converted into a branch without permission from the community. It's a very principled thing. And I'd like to vote in favour if we want to save the Ukrainian village and if we want to keep Ukrainian schools in the villages where they don't discuss what language they teach in Ukrainian today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u204	Amendment 294 of Ms. Timoshenko is to be voted on. Who's in? Please be supportive. It's not a confirmation, it's a vote. [[13:52:06]] For 121 He doesn't get the required number of votes. This amendment is rejected. The next 296 is Mrs. Konstanovic. Mrs. Irina Konstanovic does not insist. Now, 297th, this is Spiowakovsky, she's counted. It's a bet for confirmation. Eutushka, please. Ivchenko, i.e. sorry, national deputy Yvchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u205	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the law removes access to transport for those who receive full general secondary education from visual impairment, hearing, support equipment and other small-scale population groups. Colleagues, this amendment worsens the conditions for secondary education for such categories of people. I ask that we do not support this amendment and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u206	People’s deputy Yvchenka is required to amend the National MP Spiowakovsky, who was supported by the committee. Committee for Pro, please identify yourself, Your Honor. [[13:53:29]] For-127 The amendment taken into account by the committee is out of the question. 298, National Deputy Lazko. Don't insist. He insists. Please, 298th People's Deputy Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u207	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to continue the important thought that my distinguished colleague, Julia Timoshenko, has just expressed in Parliament. Rural education. Regrettably, those amendments show that you, dear colleagues, are far from the problems of rural education. When the village is closed down, people living in the village feel that there is no village. You're taking away the villages of the future. Therefore, rural schools cannot be saved. They can't be closed just because there's no money for this school. Because before that village there is no road to transport a person, there is no school bus. And as I mentioned, Talalayevska, where they're offering to shut down the school and take the kids to a neighboring village, there's no way to drive them. So the Radical Party team insists on saving rural education and restoring state funding for vocational and technical education.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u208	Your amendment to be put to the vote? No, it doesn't. 300th is now the People's Deputy of Odarchenka. Are you insisting? Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u209	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Julia Timoshenko spoke of such government manipulations when, as if forming branches, the government shuts down active schools. After introducing a program of unifying the territorial communities, today’s government unites schools, as if forming branches. In fact, of course, there is no union, just closing schools where the government lacks money. Azarov did the same. And then the people who proposed this law pitied him. But when you do it under the terms of decentralization, it turns out that everything is done right. "Paternity" takes a firm stand against closing schools. Therefore, we suggest that the network of educational institutions cannot be reduced even if class filling has declined. This is the only way we can protect a child’s right to have access to education in rural areas. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u210	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote to amend 300 of Odarchenka's people's deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:56:29]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I want to take a message right away. At 2:15 a.m. on the third floor, I will hold a meeting on the subject of language. So I ask and publicly appeal to all factions to be authorized factions so that we can come up with a compromise formulation so that we can be right-wing authors and, of course, the representation of the committee and the minister. Ms. Lila, at 14:15 on the third floor, we're having a meeting. The meeting will be closed. I hope we can come up with a decision that we'll vote on after lunch. At 2:15 p.m. on the third floor, there's a meeting. 302 readout, People's Deputy Litwin. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u211	He doesn't insist, he doesn't insist until the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u212	307th. Don't insist. 309th, Murray. Don't insist. 310. Don't insist. 311. Don't insist. 327th, Cream. Don't insist. 328, Singerkowski. Don't insist. Three-two-two, Melnik. Don't insist. 334th, Bilozer. Don't insist. 338, Litwin. Don't insist. 344th. Don't insist. 347th. Don't insist. 348th. Don't insist. 353. Don't insist. 354th. Don't insist. 357th. No, it's not. 363rd. No, it's not. 372. Don't insist. 376th. Don't insist. 380. Don't insist. 386. Don't insist. 390. Don't insist. 392. Don't insist. 395th. Don't insist. 401. Don't insist. 402. Don't insist. 405th. Don't insist. 418th. Don't insist. 426th. Don't insist. 433. Don't insist. 449th. Don't insist. 456th. Don't insist. 470. Don't insist. 478th. Odarchenko insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u213	Yuri Odarchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in this direction it is proposed to expand the mandate of the labour force. To ensure the right of a conference of the educational community for two thirds of its total composition to express its mistrust to the head of the educational institution as a result of its release. In my opinion, if more than two thirds of the employees are dissatisfied with their supervisor, that is a serious reason for making human resources decisions. And in a situation like this, the authorities have to side with the teacher, not the other way around. To those members of the labour group who are dissatisfied with their director, because it's often so dense that the director is supported by local authorities, he's providing some results of the election, and he can't organise the learning process. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u214	Thank you. So whoever supports the amendment of the 458 Odarchenk People's Deputy, please vote, please reject it. [[14:00:25]] For-78 The decision is not made. 481, Timoshenko. He insists. 459. Please. I continue to work according to my 15 - minute license.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u215	459 is the right that the head of the education institution is appointed as the founder in accordance with the special laws and regulations, but we ask for an order that out of the number of applicants who are fluent in national language and have higher education, the point is that if we are even the principals of education to be appointed without the knowledge of the state language, we will have such an education without the state language. So I ask you to vote, put this amendment to the vote and vote, so that the requirement for the head of the institution is free language and higher education, because without higher education it is virtually impossible to teach some children. I realize that without higher education, we may have presidents and prime ministers, but it is desirable that children be taught with higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u216	Thank you. All I'm saying is that there's been a 459 revision. It's counted. Mr. Spiowakovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u217	I'm sorry, it says "accounted for." "The Head of the Education Institute is assigned" and goes on "who are fluent in national language and have higher education. Additional qualifications for leadership and order of election and appointment are defined by special laws and so on," i.e., this is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u218	It's fully accounted for by the committee, and so I don't think there's any need to put it to a vote here. Clarified. 481, Timoshenko, don't insist. 484, Melnik, don't insist. 486th, not necessarily. Four, no, 512 already, Semimenach, doesn't insist. 514th, no insistence. What's that? 512, Semimenah, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! This is intended to ensure transparency in the activities of educational institutions and the full access of parents and the public to document information. What's the matter? In fact, the full way to develop secondary education without access and parental management, which today, let's be honest, for a third keep secondary education institutions impossible. The editorial board’s proposal allows the head of such an establishment to partially or completely hide certain information from his parents. The language may also refer to results such as monitoring the quality of education in the relevant institution, the annual financial report, and so forth. I think if we really want school development and full access to parental management processes or other relevant bodies, no head of such a school can hide any information. By the way, it's also in conflict with the Public Information Act, I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u220	Thank you. And I'm putting to the vote the 512th Amendment of the Semimenach Group of authors, Markevich, who supports the amendment, please vote, and the committee rejected it. Please vote. [[14:04:17]] For-92 92. The decision is not made. 515th, no insistence. 514th, Musius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u221	Dear National Deputies! Please note that we have under the Constitution a school and a church is separate from any secular objects in general. And in fact, my amendment refers to the fact that very often to this day, in the sense that the teaching of religion at school comes from a variety of sectarians, not even religions registered in the Council of Churches, but sectarians, and there they preach and drag our children into their religious sects. That's why the wording I'm proposing is that any religious symbolism, any activity of religious organizations, is prohibited in Ukraine. Besides, do you know that we have other churches besides Orthodoxy or Catholicism, and Judaism, and Islam, but can we be with them? Some are accounted for, some are unaccounted for. That's why I'm insisting that you vote. And separately, to the leader of this grantoid faction, I want to say that the absence or presence of embroidery is a symbol of Ukraine, and if you hate embroidery, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u222	So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 514 people's deputies Musia, who support her to vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[14:05:57]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 520th, no insistence. 521th, no insistence. 524th, not necessarily. 530th, no insistence. 530 insists, Odarchenko, yes. Please turn on the Odarchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u223	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! This amendment is extremely important, and it states that religious school is not included in the definition of child care by education. That is, there can be no situation when a religious school has opened up in the village and the administration of education will decide to close the public school because children are already provided with education. The State provides secular education and must guarantee it, but if the only accessible school is religious from a particular religion, the rights of children who do not apply to this religion will be violated. So, your honor, I'm asking you to put my bill to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u224	Thank you. So whoever supports the amendment of 530 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[14:07:25]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 531st. Don't insist. 535. The author does not insist. 538. Don't insist. 543rd. Don't insist. 549th. Don't insist. 557th. Don't insist. 558th. Don't insist. 561st. Don't insist. 565th. Don't insist. 570. The author does not insist. 578th. Don't insist. 580. Don't insist. 582nd. Don't insist. 585th. Don't insist. 590. Don't insist. 595. Don't insist. 608. Don't insist. 609. Don't insist. 610. Don't insist. 612. The author insists. Please, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, please listen carefully. I think each of you were approached by the parents of the university graduates when the child finishes VUZ and is not given a witness, they don't give a diploma, because it's not, it's not yet made. My paper suggests that the article should be completed if the child was learning from state funds on the state program – the state is responsible for producing these documents. If private education is to make this diploma worth private education. And that's why I'm asking you to support this amendment, because every year a large number of children finish VUZ and lose their documents for a month and a half and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u226	Thank you. So whoever's supporting the 612 people's deputies, Kugel, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[14:09:37]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 614. Don't insist. 615th. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. 617. Don't insist. 618. Don't insist. 619, no insistence. 624th. Don't insist. 625th. The author does not insist. 629th. Don't insist. 633rd. Don't insist. 658th. The author does not insist. 663rd. The author does not insist. 672. The author does not insist. 683rd. The author does not insist. 685th. Don't insist. We're gradually, but we're constantly approaching 700 revisions. 705. The author does not insist. 706. Julia Timoshenko insists. Please 706 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u227	Dear friends, this law introduces a special mandatory test of teachers. You see, teachers don't pay much. The teacher goes to work sometimes with a new teacher, perhaps not very educated. But you know that teachers, even though they work virtually free, are subjected to quite a lot of political pressure when they are forced to participate in projects of political power. And this article predicts that a teacher who has not passed an examination will immediately be released. This can, in fact, be used for the political repression of teachers. That's why we think it's important not to fire the teacher right now if he's not tested, but to give him the right to go to higher education, to allow him to do more self-education, and then to go through re-testing. It's not about putting teachers in their necks right now. I'm just asking. and
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u228	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u229	Please vote on this amendment. Or let's test the presidents, the ministers, the people's deputies, and then put them in their necks if they don't fit the test. Yeah? So I ask: Protect your teachers from political pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u230	So I'm voting for the 706th National MP, Timoshenko. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. Vote. [[14:12:27]] For-61 The decision is not made. 707. Don't insist. 709. The author does not insist. 712. Don't insist. 718. Don't insist. 726th. Don't insist. Wait a minute. 766. Don't insist. What's that? 714. This will probably be the last correction we will consider. Please, 714th Amendment, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that the Education Act is being considered, the hall is empty, and in principle no one is interested. And a key reform of the country, educational, can take place in a form that, instead of building a new education, will virtually destroy the rest of what there is. I'm asking you to support the 714th revision, which predicts that if the teacher has been certified. It now appears to be a poor teacher, not just the certification, but also the certification. So let's at least assume that if the teacher went through a five-year-old-powered certification, so that it's also comparable to an attestation so that they don't just chase this teacher every time through constant certification. And that means that if the certification is done, five years is considered to be the same as the test and you don't have to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-05-m0.u232	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 714 People's Deputies Timoshenko. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. In fact, Tymoshenko requires a complete account of it. [[14:14:31]] For-78 That's what we set up. You took it essentially. Julia Volodymyrna insisted that she accept it fully. I set up the whole room, I didn't support it, so there's still the committee editing. So, colleagues. 774. Don't insist. 785. Don't insist. 786. Don't insist. Let's set an ambitious goal to 800 revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've been through it a long time. [[B in m in s a l in]] 157th? Ah, 757, that's right. Then let's start with her after the break so we know where we're going. So we stopped at 757. Yeah? And after that, we'll continue to work after the break. I have no right to delay the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And therefore, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I want to report that at 2 p.m., at 4 p.m., I ask everyone to gather so that we can continue the discussion. I ask the right-wing authors to hold further consultations during the break, so that we can work more actively and be able to complete today's review of educational reform. We're not going as fast as we want, so I'm asking you to have the necessary consultations during the lunch break. And now I'm waiting. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's 14:15 everyone for a meeting on the third floor. Hopefully, we'll find a solution that we can vote and support in all the halls. Thank you. At 4:00, I'll have everyone in the hall.
