ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Are you ready to register or not? Okay, I'll wait another 30 seconds. Please. So, colleagues, I'd like you to prepare for your registration and request your registration. [[10:04:48]] There are 349 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear compatriots! Today, Ukrainians around the world celebrate the Day of Ukrainian Language and Writing. And I sincerely welcome all of us on this day. Some of my warm greetings to the people of culture with our professional holiday! I urge everyone to guard and cherish our language. And I urge those who do not yet speak the English language to speak the national language and to celebrate the day of writing. This is going to be a big contribution to the development of Ukrainian identity. I'm sure our Western allies will help us through both economic reforms and reforms in all areas, but the question of national identity is our question, no one else will save and develop our language, culture and history. Colleagues, before I start the agenda, I'm going to read out a statement that came to my attention from two factions: the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party faction. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. Oleg Valeriovich Lazko will perform. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, yesterday some MPs from the Peter Prashenko Block accused my colleague of being Sergio Rybalka of holding him in office to avoid the responsibility of investigating his firm, which he led to the election of the deputy. I want to say that all these statements are completely not true. Because I'm saying that no Sergey Rybalko, none of the members of the Radical Party hold any office. Because for us, jobs are not a goal but a tool for implementing the Radical Party policy, so that every Ukrainian has a job and a salary. I say that all these statements to our faction, to the address of our factions, pursue one goal: to discredit our team is cynical, unresponsive, political statements. Evidence. When the Radical Party team left the coalition, Sergey Rybalko applied to resign as chairman of the Finance and Bank Committee on September 1, 2015. Our faction accepted this application for the resignation of Sergio Rybalka as chairman of the committee. On September 16, 2015, the Regulatory Committee ordered the Supreme Council to resign Sergio Rybalka as chairman of the Committee. So these documents show that two years ago Sergey Rybalko applied for resignation from the head of the committee. This statement is not rescinded. She agrees with me. And there's no reason to blame the Fisherman or our team for holding positions. I am addressing the Head of Parliament. To remove all these insinuations, to try to discredit our team, I ask you to put to the vote a draft decree on the release of Sergio Rybalka from the post of chairman of the committee. And please let Parliament decide that there is no political basis for unfounded innuendos and accusations. I ask the Head of Parliament to consider this question. In particular, I'd like to go to respectable colleagues from the BP who are distributing unreliable information about my team and MPs from the Radical Party faction. As the leader of the Radical Party, I have very high standards and requirements for my team. We do not stick to positions, we do not cover ourselves with parliamentary mandates and inviolability. If someone commits crimes, if someone doesn't meet these high standards, I'm not going to cover anyone. I'm talking to my colleagues at the BP, you're reaching the standards of the Radical Party, you're not hiding behind mandates, you're not touching yourself, you're looking for positions. This is what Ukrainians require of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u3	Oleg Valeriyovich, today the question will be included in the agenda. And I'm going to propose to include that in the agenda. I would also like to report that today in this block of "inclusion into the agenda of the day session" I will propose, as proposed by the Venice Commission, a withdrawal from the agenda of the Anti-Corruption Court Act in order to clear the way for the introduction of a new bill. This block is pretty close to us, and after considering literally two issues, we'll be able to consider these proposals. And now I want to remind you that we're continuing our consideration of the draft Housing Services Act (1581), this is rereading. We started his consideration yesterday, and we finished our discussion on Amendment 474, if I'm not mistaken. Yes, 474. I would also like to inform you that today there are extremely important questions. This is the issue of Ukraine's State Budget for 2017, the redistribution of finance, which includes assistance to Donetsk, Luhansk district with water supply, and heat. It's an economic policy issue. And I am convinced that the most important issue today is the draft Law on Privatization of State Property, and also as a matter of public procurement. Also a block of agrarian politics, which also includes laws that define our European integration and which are included in the list of laws on European integration of Ukrainian legislation. So I'm asking everyone to work actively and systematically and effectively today. And now I'm going to continue my examination of the rights. And I invite the representative of the Committee of Helen Babak to the rostrum for further discussion of the draft law. So we're done, 474 revisions. And I'm going to count the adjustments that were still rejected. 479th. Don't insist. 480s. Don't insist. 482nd. Don't insist. 483. Don't insist. 484th. Don't insist. 489th. Don't insist. 490. Don't insist. 490. Sphinx. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, thank you. I ask that this amendment be made for confirmation, and I want this item to be presented in transitional positions by what comes into force on January 1, 2017, as it has already been introduced, except for paragraph 2 of these Transitional Regulations. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u5	Thank you, colleague. Please, the amendment to the vote is required by People’s Deputies of Sphenova 490. Please identify yourself. [["10:13:08"]] For-47
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u6	Not supported. The next is 493, also the National MP of Sphenov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. You insist. Sorry, I didn't notice. Please, Mr. Spin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, in "Transitional positions", add the following paragraph: "By the time the joint property owners of the multi-room building are transferred from the payer, they are obliged to carry out a capital repair of the building and its interior systems and to install the appropriate accounting facilities set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u8	Thank you. Thank you very much. At present, the request of the people’s MP, Sphenova, 493, is based on the definition of a hall. I'd like to make a statement. To the vote. 493. [[10:14:12]] For-36 Not supported. The next amendment is Galchenko. 500th. Don't insist. Next. Oksana Sold. 504th. Don't insist. Kiwalov. 522nd. Don't insist. Kodola. 531st. Don't insist. Let's move on. Kiwalov. 542nd. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've been through some repairs. No further comments on the amendments? I give the floor to a committee representative to summarize a bill as solid as we have considered. Dear colleagues, in literally two minutes, there will be a vote on the bill, which has been worked on for so long by both the session hall and the committee. Please turn on the Galchenk microphone now, the national MP has not been informed and wants to put his amendment to the vote. Galchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u9	Thank you. Galchenko Andrey, 33th District of Curve Rig Ladies and gentlemen, today we see that we have debt on wages, subsidies and benefits are on the ground. So I ask you to add this paragraph in article 26, the foam is not due on the condition that the State is in debt for the benefits and housing subsidies and/or for the consumer of the debt from the payment of the work duly confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u10	I'm asking you to comment now, Mrs. Oleni Babak. But I didn't know which one. Article 26, what correction have you just made?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u11	Part of the first article 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u12	Repair number, repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u13	It's not an amendment, it's an addition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u14	There is no such thing under the Rules to vote. Okay, please, Mrs. Helena, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, after discussing the rights under this bill yesterday, the National MPs asked the Hall today to pay attention to the very painful subject that was raised here in the hall, on the issue of foam. None of us want this foam to be counted when people, when they go into monetary subsidies, have government debt, for example, and the foam will start to count, or if people, as we see today, have debt, for example, in the budget area of pay. So a big request, I think no one in this room will refuse to support this clarification in part one of the first article 26 read by National Deputy Galchenko when the foam is not due to the state's debt to the population for the benefits and housing subsidies, or the availability.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u16	Let me finish another minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u17	Debt from the payment of work duly confirmed. If MPs had mobilized and voted in favour of this clarification, I think that would be the right decision. So this proposal is absolutely supported and this is a clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u18	Yeah, I get it. The Honourable MP Galchenko has now given no indication of his position, not just of his faction, but of the agreed position of many deputies who have had warnings about the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general, unless the issue of Penny is normalized. Now, under the transcript, the representative of the committee pointed to a rule that, I understand, is so consistent between factions, groups, and a committee of profile. And who are willing to support the MPs of different factions. Colleagues, we go ahead -- it's rare in our room -- the time schedule of ours. I ask everyone to return to the session room, because there will be a vote in a minute. Please, the Kodola People’s Deputy has also focused on some of his amendments that he wants to announce. And this is the last amendment. Dear colleagues, we will return to the hall, then there will be a brief Mrs. Oleni, and we will go to the vote. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I want us to go back to the almost final amendment: 531. And I'm proposing here paragraph five, paragraph ten, of part five, chapter IV, to put in the following wording: in the text of the law, the word "centralized water supply and water supply" should be replaced by the words "centralized water supply and central water supply" in all differences. And the words "storage of household waste," "reprocessing of household waste" and "reprocessing, dumping of household waste" are excluded. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirming this amendment to Mr. Kodola. And given that today is a day of Ukrainian language, and it refers to lexical terms that more accurately formulate the terminology of the bill, I propose to support this amendment. Please vote. [[10:20:30.]] Z-62 62 votes. He doesn't get the support he needs. I give you Mrs. Babak's summary word. Colleagues, Mrs. Helen asks for five minutes, please, in order to hear all the details under the transcript again, to return to the foam question, to re-evaluate the hall as to what amendments were made, which were not supported during the discussion that followed the conclusion of the consolidating position, in order for the session room to support this as a fundamental bill. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, yesterday, you remember that the Head of the Supreme Council gave me the opportunity to explain the relevance and logic of the introduction of the so-called subscription fee, because it was a matter of great concern, very many deputies came along, because I will not explain what it is, because it is written in the law and everyone can read. But the logic is why it's necessary. Because it's one of the elements of this reform that's focused on choosing the consumer of the target, a convenient model of relations with monopolies, such as Vodocanal and Heploenergo, just because this subscription fee is going to be paid only for consumers of multiple apartment buildings. I'll explain the logic. We're proposing that the current rate of water and heat that works in relation to the consumer in a multi-room building, the cost of maintenance of subscribers' services, and that we figure out how much it costs for people to have a unit of measure, namely: in bracelets for one apartment per month, instead of incomprehensible bracelets, for example, there are 30 bracelets per gigacalory to see how much the controller costs, which comes from the Water Channel, reads the counter, and then distributes the engineer and accountant between all the apartments, from the Heaténergo controller came and looked at the heat counter, the engineer divided the volume, the accountant counted. Pretentious service is there, and it works there. Maybe when a person sees how much it costs to keep these services in a year, he'll make a decision, and that'll be the decision of the entire house, and they'll figure out how much it costs to keep them in the house, and they'll say, "We're not going to duplicate these costs because we understand in the bracelets on the apartment how much we pay for it in a year." And they will decide to choose a different model of relationships, for example, to choose a manager who will send one controller to check both counters. One accountant will make calculations and bills, and perhaps in some cases it will be advantageous for economies of scale to still remain in agreement with the monopoly. We thought today by Parliament that it would be advantageous for us to translate all people into individual contracts. And here we fought for them. But we say it's economic decisions. A person needs to be given the right to calculate what a direct contract costs, and how much a contract costs, perhaps in a collective way. So the bill opens up these possibilities for people to choose in multi-housing homes a model of relationships that is economically appropriate for them. And that's the choice we're proposing today. And I very much hope that the whole Parliament will give Ukrainian consumers the right to make their own balanced economic decisions on the basis of a balanced economic decision to choose a model of relationship with the monopolistics of water canals and thermal energy. And once again, so that you don't have any fears about house gas counters, the bill once and for all clearly states that in multiple apartment buildings electricity and gas are sold on individual apartment gas and electricity counters and on direct individual contracts with apartments. Exclusions will be just electrical counters at places of general use, such as lighting, elevators. So this right over here is what's not mentioned in the electricity and gas market laws today. We're clarifying these positions here, because in fact. What's more, I want to draw your attention once again to the fact that we've already passed laws that should have been derived from the Housing Services Act: commercial accounting, energy efficiency of buildings, property rights and OSBB. And it turns out that we've already accepted them, and now we're just missing the settlement of contractual relationships, and we have to do it. And it is highly desirable that this be done today. And that's why it's very important for us to have an effective and balanced bill. So let's say that the adjustments that are defined as its structural parts that contain the principal, decisive, generating positions. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u22	Let me finish for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u23	During the vote for the project, the changes that were rejected yesterday, but which are structural, are only three: 46-a, 62-a and 97-a, and with these rights, and with the refinement that was read under the transcript by the Galchenko People's Deputy on the completion of part of the first article 26 by a new paragraph of the following content: "Penary is not due under the condition that the State is owed the benefit and the housing subsidy and/or the presence of the consumer of the debt from the payment of the work duly confirmed." With these three amendments, and with this clarification of the 26th article, please support the Committee's decision and adopt Bill 1581-d in a re-second reading and as a whole as a law, as approved by the Committee with these technical and legal rights. We look forward to your support for the most important of the housing-communal spheres of the law: the regulation of relations and the right to choose people to manage their own property and to make agreements of their own choosing with monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u24	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done discussing a large-scale bill, and in a few minutes, in two or three minutes, a vote will take place. That's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please inform the secretariat that a vote will take place. Please, everyone, please take up your jobs. I will now give the opportunity to speak to Deputy Prime Minister Hennadia Zubka under this law. Please turn on the microphone. In three minutes, but do your best. So, everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that this law has been in Parliament since February 2015. This law makes it possible to work on another law that you have voted on, which is 417 laws that allow you to manage directly your property and work in accordance with your duties and rights with those service providers directly. This is the first step that will enable us to then allow even more opportunities to influence the people of the multi-story sector directly in order to have quality services at a fair price. I'm asking you to support this bill. I think that's the first step. We will also need to work on additional tools that will allow more control over service providers. But without this step, unfortunately, we will not be able to move on to the ability to manage our property. So once again, national deputies, thank you for your cooperation for almost 2.5 years. And support the final vote of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u26	So, please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Please, Mrs. Helena, one last word so we can understand how to vote. Please read the committee’s proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u27	Last word. The committee's proposal is to vote in favour of the draft law in second reading and in general as a law confirming the three rights that have a systemic decision is the meaning of the law: 46th. 62nd and 97th, which were rejected yesterday, as well as with the clarification of the first part of article 26 by a new paragraph on foam, which I have just read.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u28	Thank you. So let's go to the vote. Don't leave, colleagues, don't leave. On the contrary, come into the hall. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. Please, we're taking up jobs. All right. Are you ready for the vote, please? And I'm betting on the vote. Let the deputies go! I'm voting on the draft Housing Services Act (No. 1581) in a repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u29	"D."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u30	"d," in a second reading, and in general, with the proposals that the deputy chairman of Babak Alona Valeriyevn's stenogram made before the vote with the technical law. Again, in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, we're voting in places. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Every vote, we vote! [[10:32:00]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed. Welcome to Babak Olen Valerievna for his titanium work. Welcome to the Prime Minister, the entire Chamber and Ukrainian citizens. Thank you, colleagues. Now, colleagues, we now have an application for a break from two factions, from the faction of the Peter Dustenk Block and the will of the people. And before I go to other questions, instead of taking a break, I give the floor to Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, as you know, it is very important today, during the aggression of the Russian Federation, not to allow the situation inside the country to be shaken as well. And today we have a very unsatisfactory situation where we have more than 50 district government administrations permanently beheaded. All the time. And this is due to some shortcomings that apply to the system of our public service. So I would like to address the Head of the Supreme Council -- and I ask the Supreme Council Hall to support me in this -- to put the transfer to the vote today in the order of Law 7126, in the middle. which is our national deputies, so that we can make this decision today. Thank you for your attention. And I sincerely ask you to put this transfer to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u32	Thank you, colleagues. Let's make all the proposals that there is, and now I'm going to put them to the vote. I want everyone's attention. Before we go to the budget, let's figure out what kind of issues we're dealing with. So offer number one. To include in the agenda of the day session a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Special Transportation Services regarding the status of the State Special Transportation Service. Colleagues, everyone knows this is not just a matter of transportation, it's a matter of security, it's a question of increasing the status of the State Special Transportation Service. And the proposal is just to put the day session in order. Not today, not this week. It's just the order of the day session. Ready to vote? Can we vote? So I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the draft Law 7242 on the State Special Transportation Service. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[10:35:13]] For 216 Apparently, the boys weren't getting their bearings. It's a matter of security. I'll give it to you. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you to take up jobs. This is a question of increasing the status of staff of the Special Public Transport Service and protecting key infrastructure objects. Maybe we just didn't get acquainted with this bill, it's not about transportation, it's about security. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and I'm asking you to support the inclusion of only the day session so that the committee can consider draft Law 7242. Please vote, please support. Every voice matters Please, Arthur. Every voice. Please take your seats. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:36:24]] For 225 225. One voice. I see they haven't made it. Please take up jobs, colleagues. I say you won't vote, so it will be under other voting laws. Don't leave the hall, my friends. Vote. A few colleagues are standing in the back. So once again, I'm going to put 7242 into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:37:06]] For 233 Decision taken. Next was a proposal by Oleg Valeriovich Ljaška to include in the agenda a draft regulation on amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of Committees of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call of Ukraine (3119). Please vote, please support. Entry into the agenda of the day session for consideration today, for consideration today. Please vote 3119. Please be supportive. [[10:38:00]] For 229 229th. Decision taken. We will consider it today. Next, colleagues, the proposal from the Peter Prashenko Block: to move the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual issues of the State Service Passing (7126) into consideration now. So move it to look at this question right now. Whoever supports this proposal to transfer the draft Law (7126) to the hearing now, please vote, and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:38:54]] For 209 209. Obviously, not all of them have been oriented, so I'm going to do it again. It is a proposal to transpose the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the conduct of the public service (7126) and to move it in order of the day for consideration now. That's the offer. Please vote, please support (7126). [[10:39:27]] For 214 Once again, colleagues, I'll take the third time. Please mobilize. I'll put the third, and the last, once a vote. The 7126 draft law is now in order of the day. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[10:39:55]] For 209 209th. The decision is not made. So, colleagues, according to our vote, we're adding the question of Regulation 3119. But there was another motion for a break. And before we move on to the second issue of the agenda, it's a proposal from the Rebirth Group and the People's Front faction requiring a real break, right? Maxime, it's a real break, isn't it? All right, colleagues. Then, according to the law, I announce a break of 30 minutes, 30 minutes, until 11:10. Break at 11:10, for 30 minutes, and ask everyone to come to the conference room after that to discuss matters of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that political consultations are continuing, the largest faction of the Parliament of the "Block of Peter Poroshenko" is continuing consultations. I am already exercising my right not to lift the vote, and I continue for another 30 minutes. Since this will be 12 hours after the break, I ask everyone to come to the hall after the 12:30 morning break. I mean, I'm asking all the deputies. No, it's half an hour, but it's 12 o'clock. There'll be a break for the Rules. And that's why at 12:30, I'm inviting all the deputies into the hall. Yeah, it's a break. Since the largest faction is not in the hall and since it is not possible to hold a meeting, I announce my right half - hour break and then there will be a scheduled half - hour break. At 12:30, everyone, please arrive in the hall at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! The time allocated for the break is over. During the break, consultations took place, during which attention can you hear me, colleagues? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. During which time, Peter Prashenko's Block asked me once again to put forward a proposal for a break, a transfer and a review of the State Service Act. Under this law, the committee passed away in the morning, and now you're being distributed, and I'm giving you my word, a minute of speech, the head of the Peter Prashenko bloc, Arthur Gerasimov, to explain the position, colleagues. I, while Arthur is going, we have a very important question today -- this is the budget of Ukraine, this is a matter of privatization, one of the most progressive agendas. We need to unlock the Council's work. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I've already been to this rostrum today, and I want to reiterate once again that when we talk about balancing the system of regional authority, this is, indeed, currently going to the territories. In fact, more than a year ago, you and I passed the State Service Act here, and it's very progressive, but in terms of local government administrations, your colleagues, unfortunately, we've got a lot of problems today. Because they're beheaded, they're ineffectively working, and that's the question that was really laid down in that law. And today we ask the entire Hall to support this law, because what concerns the issues of local government administrations is today the issue of the security of our state. And I've stressed this in this room over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again I've stressed this in this room. So I would sincerely ask you all to support today's vote bill 7126, which concerns local government administrations, and to increase their effectiveness in conditions where, unfortunately, today the aggressor country has moved a considerable amount of its efforts to manage the situation in the middle of the country. Let's see how many negative events are going on today. We see all the terrorist attacks that are going through. I want to remind you once again that when any meetings are held at the district level, at the level of local administrations, these meetings are at a time. For example, before any significant events, when we are to protect the lives of our citizens and in which representatives of the National Police, the Ukrainian Security Service, are involved, these meetings are usually held for. with the participation of local government administrations, so that all actions can be coordinated and, in fact, nothing threatens the lives of ordinary citizens at district and level levels, sorry, cities and everything. So, dear fellows, I'd like to ask you one more time. Dear colleagues, I ask you today to gather and support this position, which is very important for the security of our state. So please support the committee's decision, please support the vote as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u36	Colleagues, I'm about to re-supply the order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to move draft Law 7126 to the table now. I'm asking you to take your seats and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal that we put the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual issues of the state service (number 7126) into the agenda and put it into the budget right now. That's the offer from Peter Dustenk's Block. And I ask everyone who supports this proposal to vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:45:08]] For 234 Decision taken. Let's go to Bill 7126. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[12:45:33]] For 196 And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u37	114th Precinct, Luganshina, "Will of the People", Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by Bill (7126) to amend certain laws of Ukraine on specific issues of the conduct of the public service. His main goal is to remind the authorities that this is a political responsibility. In a country of war, the country is killing patriots for their pro-Ukrainian position, and the authorities have gone to the point where they are not responsible. In this room, honourable colleagues have previously made mistakes, generally adopting a progressive Law on State Service. You have overlooked the individual norms of the Constitution. The Kabin has somehow become the Commission of Higher Staff of the State Service. Open the Constitution, please, and I beg you, as Shevchenko said. All clear, article 118: "Heads of the local government administration shall be appointed President for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." It is the government that has to determine the head of the administration, not the commission. Look at her warehouse. From the government there is only one man out of twelve. Does anyone even know the composition of this committee? As a result, fraud is spreading throughout the country. Obviously, for someone, it's convenient -- that's the bigger anarchy, the more they steal billions of government funds. I can already see this painting: the President or the Prime Minister comes out and says, "There's nothing we can do about the district administrations." Look at the sociological survey. Ukrainians consider the biggest problem in our country is war and corruption. What will we tell the electorate when the time comes? To date, I ask you to support Bill 7126, which will settle all positions and establish justice. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u38	The report invites the Secretary of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule, Honcharenko Alexiyyyovich. Mr. Alexi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u39	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Paruba, at its meeting on 9 November this year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the conduct of the public service (Registration No. 7126). The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees in its conclusion on the need to remedy the shortcomings and inconsistencies in the current edition of the Ukrainian State Service Act. In this regard, the Chief Executive considers that the first reading of the bill may be based on the comments and suggestions made. As a result of a comprehensive discussion of the issue, in support of the need to conduct a procedure for the appointment of heads of local public administrations in accordance with Article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the committee, in accordance with Part One, paragraph 1, of Part One, part Two of Article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the effects of the first reading, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of the conduct of the public service (Registration No. 7126) on the basis and in general and taking into account such proposals. First. Section I, paragraph two, delete. The other one. Section I, paragraphs 3, read: "In the Ukrainian Law "For the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", 2014 Supreme Council Report No. 13 on page 222, with the following modifications: First. To complement part five of article 6 with a new sentence: “The position of the respective ministers is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. Item two. In the first part of article 42, paragraph four, in paragraph two, delete the words "according to the legislation on public service". To be supplemented by a new paragraph: "Proposals for guidance and coordination by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of central executive authorities, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u40	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u41	No, I'm 30 seconds away. A little more. "including a minister who doesn't run the Ministry." Fill in the following new entries: "12. He gives orders to violate discipline regarding ministers and their deputies, the heads of other central executive authorities and their deputies. He applies discipline to such individuals. 13. He's giving orders to violate discipline with regard to the heads of the local executive authorities and their deputies." Third. Article 45, after part three, to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u42	Colleagues, let's give you one minute to listen to all the suggestions from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u43	the content: "Member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may be drawn to disciplinary responsibility in the order provided for by this law." Four. Paragraph 2 of the third article 50 should be supplemented by the words "and also by a minister who does not lead the ministry." In the event of the adoption of the bill on the basis and in general, we propose to entrust the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, when preparing it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with technical and legal work. The meeting also took into account that a member of the Committee of Alona Skrum of Ukraine had a separate opinion on the bill. The members of the committee agreed that the individual opinion would be announced by the initiator at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the consideration of the bill in accordance with paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u44	Thank you. Thank you. In accordance with the committee's decision, I give the floor to a member of the Committee, Helene Skrum, three minutes. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u45	Alona's Scrum, the Fatherland faction, the head of the public administration and public service reform subcommittee. I would like, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees Act, to give my own opinion to the committee's decision. Colleagues, reform of the public service largely determines the success of other reforms. This reform ensures a new quality of public service in line with better European practices and makes the public service politically impartial for the benefit of the State and society. Admission to the public service will take place only after a competition based on personal qualities. The state service will become depoliticized. Those are words, colleagues, the President of Ukraine, not my words. This is a quote by the President of Ukraine from December 31, 2015, when he signed the State Service Act and boasted about it before our international partners. At the moment, the law that we're looking at here from the will of the people faction and other coalition deputies is completely contrary to what the President has stated. What's interesting is, not only the State Service Act, but the requirements for political impartiality of government officials and the inability of the highest category of government officials to be members of political parties and actually manage political parties in places consistent with our international requirements, SIGMA, the State Administration Strategy adopted by the government. And interestingly enough, it is contrary to the National Security Strategy approved by the President of Ukraine, its Decree 06.05. This Decision Regrettably, this law provides for the full withdrawal from the Law of State Service, from the public service of local government officials, their first intercessors, and their deputies. But worst of all, the issue of political impartiality is raised. They can be members of political parties again. Once again, they can run and combine the executive branch of power and the legislative branch of authority. They will be able to lead the factions of power again on local councils. In fact, they will again be politicians and will govern political activity. Unfortunately, it's done for one purpose, and it doesn't have to be covered up here with good intentions and war, and it's done for one purpose: to run administrative elections with its own, closed-down, completely appointed heads of local government administrations. Masks are off. The game of democracy, I understand, is over in our country. The President gives up all his words two years ago and returns everything to the towel, no contests, no procedures, no vacancies, no openness, no even the likes of government officials being politically neutral and not doing one-in-one job with the President's Administration, and not making administrative resources on the spot. All of this is contrary to our international obligations. This is all in conflict with what SIGMA said, which, by the way, is doing the accession of member countries to the European Union. And, colleagues, I ask you not to support this bill, and I ask you not to hide from war where it is not necessary. Mr. Vlasenko also joins my separate opinion. And I'm asking the President to announce the contests instead of covering up this issue. Because the competitions aren't announced by the President, and that's why the commission can't consider it. For six months the contest was not announced to the governor of the Hersonian region at the start of the Donbas war. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u46	Thank you. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. From Self-Help, Sisoyenko gives the floor to Oleg Berezuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is not a law that increases the security of the country, it's a law that increases the security of the country's despotion and oligarchy. It's a bill that returns, it's a law of the Renaissance. These are the prefects who didn't go through the changes to the Constitution, today's mean way, through the knee, through this Parliament and in this room. It was the President of Ukraine who decided to hold the elections of the President, the Parliament next time so that the oligarchate would remain in the Supreme Council and in places. It's the economy of the party's money. Because today the heads of state administration will be the head of the electoral headquarters at the state expense and will choose and choose those who serve the despots. Today's vote for this bill is a return to the past, a despotic Soviet past that destroys the Ukrainian state. And these two years, which have been successful in a small reform of the public service, have been completely wiped out by the stroke of your pen and by your voice today. You can't! Shame! No way!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u48	Sergey Vlasenko will be speaking from the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I ask everyone to pay very close attention to who supports this bill, which groups, which factions, who care so much about Ukrainian citizens, but now essentially throw us out of our European future. For two years, the President of Ukraine told everyone that we were on our way to Europe, that we had implemented 144 reforms, one of which was State Service reform. Dusty told us that his activities turned out to have cost us a car. And today we're overturning the reform of the public service, we're creating, more loyally, we're returning completely manual, completely politically dependent, completely politically motivated governors and the heads of the regime. Six and a half years have passed since the adoption, the entry into force of the Law on State Services, and for a year and a half, competitions have been held. On the committee, we regularly considered the shortcomings that were encountered during the contests. Yes, we understand that competitions were very often used as a fig leaf that covered up the President's influence on the appointment of the people he had chosen in advance. Today, though, Dustenko decided to give up this fig leaf, rip off the masks, and show his real face. We're not going to any Europe, it's pure Byzantine. And I want to say one more thing. There was a war here, but what the attitude to war has to do with the situation that, over the six months, there have been no competitions for the positions of the heads of the Reich administrations in the Donetsk and Lugansk region. There is no link between war and this bill. There's a huge i.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u50	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u51	Thank you. There is a huge and direct link between the desire to usurp power, the desire to forge elections, the desire to maximize the use of administrative resources, and the link between this and that law. For those who are in favor of usurping power, vote in favour of this law. But please look closely at who voted for it. Fatherland doesn't support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u52	Thank you. From the opposition block of Dudenkov. From the rostrum, right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u53	Respectable citizens. In the first place, the Opposition Block is addressing you, because we understand that there will be a bill in this room. Regrettably, the national deputies of the previous secret conspiracy will vote, and this vote will be a demonstration. This bill has nothing to do with democratic procedures. We don't have to appeal to war or Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk, because if he knew what was going on here, he would turn into a grave, and he wouldn't have to appeal to any democratic values. This bill has two simple things: The president doesn't want to count on competitive procedures for the appointment of heads and their deputies, local government administrations, and accordingly, you just have to think, heads of local administrations who are actually representatives of the President in places lose their status as a civil servant. They will not be covered by the Ukrainian State Service Law. What does that mean? That means they're going to be politicized, that means they can be corrupt, because they can actually engage in entrepreneurial activities, because the requirements for non-compensation will not apply to them. This is the result of reforms. We see that no reforms in this room are for the benefit of the Ukrainian people, but rather for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. This also applies to pension reform, educational reform, and medical reform. This reform is aimed only at strengthening the position of the President in the state, it has nothing to do with the selection of competitive, competent people who would actually make decisions for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. The opposition bloc faction, as no other political power, has encountered all such very "preferences" of administrative resources in places of election, so we believe that voting is criminal for this bill and we urge not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u54	Thank you. Mustafa Najem. Then there's the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we are now being explained by the adoption of this law by the fact that so many local administrations are beheaded is the truth. But the main reason isn't because they're not assigned, the main reason is that the President doesn't assign competitions. We've been talking about the head of the Herson area for six months, and the President didn't assign a competition -- it's not the law's fault, it's not the competition's fault at all. This law actually announces the start of a parliamentary campaign and a presidential campaign, the fact is that the main norm of this law was to separate public service and political work. Now, not only are we allowing the President to appoint naked administrations, but we have actually removed from this law all the points of conflict of interest, which means that the heads of administration will have the right without any violation of the law to continue to aggrieve, bend as they did in the days of Yanukovich, whose representative was standing here now and saying that it is impossible to do so, his subjects. They may be members of political parties. In fact, in this way, we are now returning to the standard for which we have adopted the Law on State Service. Once again, this is only happening for one reason, elections are coming up, unfortunately, this is a counter-revolution on the march, but in the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u56	And, colleagues, a closing statement from the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. In two minutes, there will be a vote, and I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u57	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team did not vote in favour of this new State Service Act when it was discussed in this Hall, because we think it's the constitutional mandate of the President of Ukraine to appoint heads of administration. If you want competitions, go to the OTG, go to the Supreme Council, to other councils. The state's vertical is the President's mandate. And no one has the right to repeal the Constitution of Ukraine. Moreover, I personally convinced President Dustenk not to sign this law. I told him, Peter Alexiovich, you're so generous that you won't ask for the snow in the winter, and you're giving up your constitutional authority, and he still took it and signed it. They broke down the state's vertical, and look at the mess in the country that's chaos, the consequences of the lack of law and order, there's no discipline, there's no state vertical. In the Chernigiv region, the Novgorod-Sever region, lead administration is not six months away from the border adjacent to Russia in the Kharkiv region. That's why we're in favour of restoring the Constitution, and the President of Ukraine, and after the polls, it's gonna be Easy for me to have the right to appoint heads of administration, so our team will vote in favour of this law. But, BP, take your time to rejoice. On the first reading alone, the public service has no right to engage in politics, public officials have no right to be party members, to carry out agitation as it was during the Party of the Regions. So we vote in favour of the law in the first reading, we return constitutional powers to the appointment of heads of administration, but we remove the right of civil servants to engage in politics because President Poroshenko wants to usurp power. We won't give it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u58	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. As the MPs enter the hall, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute, one minute Arthur Gerasimov, until the deputies enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to ask each of you to support this law, which directly relates to the sphere of national security and defence. Now, a great request: If we vote in favour of this law, a great request to bear in mind that there are certain points, I can immediately say that when it comes to political activity, we can exclude this paragraph from this law. With that in mind, I would like to support the Radical Party with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u60	How can this be formulated? Excluded. Make it up. Okay. Please take your seats. Let's vote, colleagues. So I put the committee's first proposal to vote: a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on individual matters of the conduct of the public service (7126) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. First proposal from the committee. Vote. Please vote. [[13:07:55]] For 234 234-yes. Decision taken. And so we can finally go to the budget. And I announce the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget of Ukraine for 2017. Colleagues, please support the consideration in the reduced procedure, and I will give the floor to all who will be willing to speak, by factions I mean. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[13:08:38]] For 199 199 — yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for voting for the previous law, but we have another twofold law: 7258. This is about redistribution of budget expenditure in the current year. These funds will allow us to finance the urgent social and humanitarian needs of citizens. First of all, the financing of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for the payment of hot water, heating and other utilities. On these priorities, it is proposed that almost two thirds of all expenses be allocated. More than half a billion dollars are allocated to health care. There are two important directions here. First of all, it's allocating extra funds to treat citizens abroad. Minor health care and patient organizations have repeatedly called attention to the need to increase funding due to an increase in the number of such patients. The second direction is the medical subsidy to medical budgets. The bill also takes into account regional needs, so for the socio-economic development programme, we propose to allocate more than 1 billion dollars. In particular, I would like to point out that this project will allow the humanitarian problem in Donetskina to be addressed: it is envisaged that 1.8 billion dollars will be allocated to pay off the debt for electricity from water undertakings in the Donetsk region and to ensure the uninterrupted provision of services to local people. I want to say one thing. While we're sitting here in Kiev, there may be no water and the heat may disappear. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this law because it depends on it in the homes of the people of Donetsk and Lugansk, but not only on it, it depends very much on the social requirements of our citizens. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. And the word for the co-report is to the head of the budget subcommittee, Constantine Ischeykin. Mr. Constantine, we ask you to present the position of the committee on the draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u63	Let all factions speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u64	Of course. And I stress that we have all the factions that can join the debate on this bill. I've got it written down. No, no, no, another committee representative. Please. That's what the report says. Ladies and gentlemen, from the committee, determine who will be speaking. You? You? It's written "Ishkin." Please. Please, Kirichenko will represent. Dear colleagues, the secretariat has made a mistake in shaping the agenda, and this bill will be reported by a respected colleague of Kulichenko. We support him, we give him our word. Please ask your colleague Kulichenko for his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs yesterday considered the Bill (7258) "To make changes to the State Budget for 2017." The bill proposes to redistribute government budget expenditure to address social issues by increasing subsidies for housing subsidies to 7.6 billion dollars, to implement measures for socio-economic development of areas by 1.1 billion dollars, medical subsidies by 300 million, expenses for treatment abroad, by 200 million dollars. In addition, a new subsidy is envisaged to pay off the debt for electricity from water companies worth 1.8 billion dollars, which will solve the problem of uninterrupted operation of the life - support system in the Donetsk region. The implementation of such expenditure is planned for a reduction in the volume of individual budget programmes, and the proposals for changes are then balanced. At the same time, when considering the bill, attention was drawn to the potential risks of the proposed cost reduction. At the same time, Minfin was stressed that the budget economy for public debt services could decrease by 1.1 billion, less than the bill and a proposal to clarify the source for increased expenditure supported by the committee. At the same time, the committee has proposed appropriate technical and legal changes to the text of the bill to address conflicts in budgetary legislation caused by the bill on the preservation of separate subsidies in local budgets. In addition, the committee proposes an increase of 300 million dollars in public support for such enterprises, as proposed by the National MPs, in order to reduce the social pressure on coal - mining enterprises. In view of the above, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 72 to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u66	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u67	on the basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals put forward in the Committee's letter of assist. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should make the necessary editorial and technical remedies for the involvement of the committee's decisions. Such a committee decision is consistent with the Ministry of Finance and ensures a balanced state budget. Please support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u68	Thank you for your position from the committee, dear colleague. I ask the factions to sign up for this important bill. I stress that we are discussing a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2017. All factions will be able to express their positions. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, from Self-Help, Mrs. Sissyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! In terms of considering the changes to the State budget, I want to draw the attention of all of Ukraine to the unprecedented, terrible event that has taken place in our country. An 11 - month medical facility located in the city of Smila Cherkaskie district is not funded by a single copy, and the 11 - month debt is 13.5 million dollars. 160 medical personnel, nurses, leave doctors alone. The city authorities have made a decision that they have refused to balance and finance this medical facility, which is Legal Health Unit No. 14 in Smila now belongs to the Ministry of Health, and the government of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, is obliged to finance this medical facility. Imagine 160 medics, 160 families who have nothing left to eat for 11 months. These people have now come under the walls of the Supreme Council, they are here with us, they will be near the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and they will wait until the government and the state fulfill their duty and pay people their wages. This multidisciplinary medical facility has already turned off lighting, lighting, and lighting. Patients from all over the Chercas region came to the hospital to be treated. In fact, there is a total destruction of the medical facility. This has not been the case in Ukraine. I want to address those who have been sitting in this government bed for several months, since February, I regularly address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Uljana Suprun, to the Ministry of Finance, in order to resolve this problem immediately for which the government is responsible. But it doesn't matter. Everybody doesn't care. No one gives a penny to this medical facility. There is not one person in this government bed who really cares about medical care.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u70	Mrs. Irina, thank you. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u71	No person who cares about medical workers is in this government bed. I declare that I remain in this government bed until the government decides and returns the wages and debts of this medical facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u72	Please make the next statement from the Radical Party. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We're with a charming colleague from Self-Help who's just as ready to stay in bed with her to pay people's debts. That's a very good initiative. It is better not to sit on beds, but to go to the people. Sadly, the people in the beds do not sit, but they are hungry, bossy, cold, and unemployed. Therefore, it is necessary to communicate with them in order to meet the aspirations of the people. The Radical Party team will support budget changes. Why? 2 billion dollars to pay off the debt to the Donbas public utility, so that hundreds of Luhansk, Donetsk region, will have water in order for our country's strategic enterprise to function. Seven billion dollars to pay off subsidies. What's bad about subsidies is that we want this money to go into energy-generating, but as long as they don't have the money to send for energy-generating, let's at least go to subsidies to get people to pay less for the utility. 1.5 billion dollars in defense, in protection for our country's defenders, we support that. 100 million dollars in foreign intelligence, we support this to ensure that spies are provided with all necessary information to protect Ukraine's national interests. But what we don't support is that there is no increase in wages and pensions. We think the only way to get the Ukrainians out of poverty is to raise their income. We are for the government to invest in new jobs, support national production, so that we can produce more goods, so that we can sell more of these goods, so that more currencies can come to Ukraine, and that Ukrainians have more wages and pensions. That's why the Radical Party policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u74	Please, from Fatherland, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u75	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Certainly a beautiful initiative, and I support my self-help colleague's initiative to save a specific medical facility in Smily, which they closed. Which was shut down because of the fact that there are not so many small community medical facilities that will be closed down throughout Ukraine, in the villages of the FAPs, medical facilities in the areas after the implementation of the medical reform that you've been saving so much for. And so now those who are standing here need to go out and tell them that not only are they going to get hurt, but thousands of medics are going to be thrown out into the street. And Fatherland warned of the consequences of medical reform. And it is certainly necessary to correct this matter in this Law on Budget. The second question. Subsidies. with subsidies. Look, 7.6 billion is needed by the end of the year to pay subsidies to the Ukrainian people. What did we say when we accepted the 2017 budget? And we said very clearly that there were not enough subsidies. Let's invest money on energy efficiency, on energy-generating, on tariffs, on the absolute values that are economically sound and that people can pay. In fact, we think now that the subsidy systems are completely ineffective. But in these conditions, of course, it is necessary for them to pay for what they are entitled to by the end of the year, otherwise they will be cut off from the heat supply, and they will be shut down. There is no choice but to save people now. And I want to urge the government: let's stop hostageing people with the thoughtless decisions they make when they make a budget. So for the following year, in the 2018 budget, put energy efficiency costs so that people can adjust their capabilities and pay less for utilities. After all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u76	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u77	And finally, let's not have it the way it is right now, "in a firefight." There are many people who need urgent medical care abroad. These are people who are dying. The 2,000 million that we're betting on right now, that's good. But that's not enough. For the next year, it's going to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleague, we have today. Ten seconds. Ten seconds, I appreciate the opposition, very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u79	I'm done. Thank you, Madam Chairman. And I'm asking that for the next year, we actually have the necessary amount so that those in need of treatment abroad can receive such treatment. And these changes have to be made, but we have to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u80	Thank you for your position, Your Honor. From the respectable faction of the People's Front,
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! As the author of this bill, I'm going to confirm the position of the People's Front faction with the faction that we're going to vote by all the factions for this bill. Because this bill and this amount that we're distributing now, 13 billion dollars, is another proof that the course that was taken three years ago by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk was correct. Then we'll open up our country's economic default. Yes, we made unpopular decisions, but they were essential to our nation. And now we have the opportunity to allocate additional revenue to the budget. It's not stacking, it's distributing. I want to remind you again, 7.6 billion dollars in subsidies. The subsidy system was implemented by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. And thank you, Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman, for continuing the economic policy that has been initiated with you. The other one. That's what's important. We must now support our communities. We are holding elections in united territorial communities. And on top of one, one whole. One billion dollars to support the socio-economic development of our communities. Next. We must vote in order to allocate over 200 million dollars for treatment abroad, including our children who need it urgently. Next. We must fund both the increase in wages and the continuation of the reform of the National Police, which was initiated by Minister Arsen Avakov. I think everyone in this room should vote for this distribution of money. I would like to point out that after listening to Jaroslav's other crying, the previous speaker, I can remind you that this faction has never voted in favour of the draft budget for every year. But as he saves for the communities, as they save for the socially vulnerable species of the population, we all see. So once again, I invite everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u82	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, and then we're going to vote. So in two or three minutes, the vote will take place. I ask the heads of factions and ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. And now I'd like to invite you to speak with Mr. Melnik's Peter Dusty Block. Please, from the rostrum. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u83	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports the initiative of the bill. I would like to point out that it's pretty important to redistribute these 13 billion, first of all, it's a 7.6 billion subsidy on benefits and subsidies for housing and utilities. You know that we have a certain debt on this year’s 1 / 09. And this will allow, in the setting of the heating season, to conduct clearings and pay off the energy debt. We also allocate 500 million to health care, 300 million to medical subsidies, which will allow certain cuts that we have to fix and pay for salaries in the medical field, and 200 million we send to pay for the treatment and treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad. Also 200 million -- it's going to increase national security. What was quite important was the Bill 7140, which was the allocation of 1.8 billion dollars to repay the debt for the energy supply of water companies in the Donetsk region. So we're also settling it, it's going to be done on the basis of clearing calculations, and it's going to let the tension in this region go down. 1.1 billion is allocated to socio-economic development, and what's very important is two positions, this is the transitional position of the residuals of the social and economic development subsidy, which will be transitional next year and allow them to be used, and not the December 31st will be returned to the state budget. We ask you to support the proposed changes and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I also want to confirm that the head of the Supreme Council has also been called to me by the head of the Luhansk ODA, who spoke of the catastrophic situation that is in the area, asking for the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. So I'm asking everyone to mobilize and be as supportive as possible. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2017 (No. 7258) with the proposal of a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposal. Everyone, please get ready. Please come into the hall. And please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please support with the committee's proposal. I'll wait 10 seconds. Please, 7258 on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposal. Have you all reached your seats? Can we vote? Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[13:29:03]] For 292 292-yes. The law is passed. And, colleagues, so we move on to the next question, I think the most important question today is the draft Law on Privatization of State Property (7066). I ask my colleagues to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. We have a long agenda, and I ask you to support this proposal, we vote in favour of the cut. [[13:29:45]] For 193 Decision taken. And we are going to consider the law, the draft Law on Privatization of State Property (7066), a bill that introduces transparent privatization rules in Ukraine. And I invite you to report to the temporarily acting head of the State Property Fund, the Head of the apparatus, Trubarov Vitalia Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! To consider the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property (registration number 7066) is proposed. The bill has been developed in close cooperation between the State Property Fund and the Ministry of Economics and representatives of international organizations, taking into account the leading international experience and existing experience of privatization of state property. The bill proposes a number of radical changes that will allow for the return of both domestic and foreign investors to privatisation processes in Ukraine. First of all, it is proposed to consolidate the situation of seven legislative acts into one single law that will regulate the privatization of state property in Ukraine. The main purpose of the bill is to simplify the privatization process, which is proposed by simplifying the classification of objects, by dividing all objects into two large groups, large privatization and small privatization objects, by expanding the range of objects that can be put on sale, by reducing the deadline for preparing objects for sale, by the possibility of bank guarantees, by unifying ways of selling state property, by ensuring the competition of buyers for the expansion of the investor circle, by protecting the rights of investors, by limiting the possibility of charging privatization to three years, and by applying international arbitration. A new approach to great privatization will be the involvement of international advisors, the approach to small privatization only on electronic auctions, the conceptual new approach to the pricing of the privatisation process. The mechanisms and procedures that are the basis of the bill will help to increase the investment climate in the state, accelerate privatization processes and allow effective owners to be found for a large number of state ownership. The draft is discussed in detail by the National Reform Board of the President of Ukraine and all the statements are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u86	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u87	Bill in first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u88	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, Ukraine awaits your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u89	Your Honor, Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, you are being reviewed by Bill 7066, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Economic Policy Committee at its October 4th meeting decided to support the bill in its first reading. This bill answers very simple questions, the privatization that we must undertake in our country must be fast, transparent and understandable. We have seven bills today that regulate the question of how privatization should take place. This bill codifies the right to a single project and answers all questions, it fully meets all European standards, introduces new revolutionary approaches that will ensure the transparency of our country's privatisation. So I very much ask, honourable national MPs, to support this bill in the first reading on the basis that we can take into account some of the proposals made by the people's deputies in the second reading. And to go to a quality, balanced bill, which will be a signal, first of all, for all our international partners, that we are set up on a transparent, understandable privatization. And the second step we're going to take is when we give an answer to how we're going to privatize. The second step is to answer the question that we will privatise to secure the budget and fight corruption in those enterprises that, unfortunately, do not work for Ukraine today, but are some of the breadwinners for those who run these state-owned enterprises. Thank you. I very much ask all factions and groups to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman is present. Let's welcome the Prime Minister! Is he or isn't he? Vladimir Borisovich! Show yourself to the hall, Vladimir Borisovich! He's in the hall. Please, Vladimir Borisovich. I'm going to ask you, do you want to finish or do you want to speak on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u91	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to thank you for the changes to the state budget. I think these are the steps that we are taking systematically with regard to the support of citizens, especially with regard to subsidies. And we will continue to do so in order to protect all those in need. And at the same time, we're doing a lot of modernization, and we're doing things in our energy dependency, and it takes time and your support. I would now like to ask you to support the law regarding the change in the privatization procedure. For no one is the secret that 3.5 thousand state-owned enterprises for the country are absolute nonsense. They generate damage to the state and profits to those around them who have been fed for decades. We have to conduct procedures for open, competitive, public privatization of state companies so that any entrepreneur can openly buy an enterprise, create new jobs there, create new technologies and make a Ukrainian national competitive product. This is important for our economic growth, and this is one of the strongest steps on our anti-corruption policy in the state. So I would like to ask today to support this law, to open up opportunities for the formation of quality European legislation. Thank you, dear friends, and I count on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u92	Thank you. Colleagues, and I'm asking you to do the recording: two for, two for, two against, please. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, our faction against the privatization of state-owned strategic enterprises. For example, the Harkowan Turbot is a successful enterprise that works without a single penny of government spending, we pay billions of taxes, and thousands of people work there. There was once a Serp and Hammer factory, there's not even a foundation there today, one curve, because it was privatized and cut out on scrap metal. ZALK - Zaporozium aluminum plant was privatized by Russians and cut into scrap metal. Therefore, strategic state-owned enterprises should remain state-owned, feed Ukrainians, and generate revenue to the state budget. At the same time, we agree with you that all of these corrupt offices, the feds, like the political forces, come to power, then take on the feeding: that's the factory, that's the paratrooper, that's the horsework, that's the hop, that's the crossspirt, that's the thing. All these corrupt feeds have to be covered up because there are tens of billions of dollars of damage and they're paid off from the government budget. So in the first reading, we will support the Privatization Act. For the second reading, we offer a list of state-owned enterprises that are not privatized, and all the corruption offices that every authority from there has been laundering money to then fund corruption in the elections, we propose privatization. Let a foreign investor or an honest investor come along, and let him bring in the money. We want my policy to have Americans, the Japanese, the French, the Germans, the Ukrainian investor, bring their money so we don't go to the wedding -- protect our country, and to have property here, it's the best guarantee against Russian aggression, because they're going to protect their property, not listen to us get married. And finally, lastly, Mr. Prime Minister, the last Chinese warning, return to the state ownership of the gas distribution networks that are now in Firthash, Ljovczyn and the company. Thousands.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u94	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u95	Corruption, a source, robs Ukrainians of 40 billion dollars a year for tariffs and places them in the pockets of the oligarchs Firtash and Ljowczyn. Either you cover this office, or I'll hold your throat!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u96	From the People's Front, the word is "Jemec Leonid Alexanderovich."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. People's Front faction, Leonid Yemen. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, this privatisation has been taking place in our country for 20 years. Each year, a new privatization program is being adopted, which is supposed to eventually put a stop to the damage to the state of the enterprise being transferred to private hands. And apparently, these 20 years show that obviously someone really likes the process and no one wants the outcome when they hand over these businesses to those who can use them effectively. So a perfectly sound bill and within it I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are companies that are completely different in nature, these are strategic for the state and the community of enterprises. The situation in Kiev is: Kyivvodokal, Kiivenergo, Kievgaz, they have a commercial competition with the hostages of the capital citizens. They say, "Give us back some of this commercial money, or else Kyiv, capital citizens will freeze." Well, I'm sorry, it's direct terrorism. It's a straight line. Because they can't be hostages to our citizens in the commercial divisions of private businesses. That is why I believe that by supporting privatization as a whole for strategic states and municipals. and cities of a strategic character, such as the capital, should decide what should be returned to the state and municipal property of those monopolistic enterprises of a strategic nature such as Kievgas, Kiev canal and Kievenergo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u98	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block to the word, Kit Andri Bogdanovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u99	Andrew Keith, St., Jewish. I certainly thank you very much for the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers to privatize enterprises, but I believe that there is now a complete transfer of the rights of the Supreme Council to the Cabinet of Ministers in all areas of state ownership concerning privatization. In fact, we deprive ourselves of the right of the Supreme Council to identify lists of strategic enterprises and to identify enterprises that are unacceptable before privatization. Next. Maybe someone doesn't know that we're all estimated to be on very bad investment ratings now, including the so-called easy-doing business. So I have a very simple question. I don't understand. Why is there a time right now when businesses need to be privatized? And who needs it at all, and who's in the mood for it right now? Next. For a simple person, it is clear to grandma in the village that there is now a war going on, that we have a part of the territory of Ukraine that we do not control. Please tell me, as in that privatization legislation, the occupied territories and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea are reflected, I haven't found the answer. And that's why I think we should first appoint the head of the Holding Fund as the body responsible for privatization. Then let the Holding Fund identify and privatize more than 3,000 enterprises that it currently has on privatisation, and then the Supreme Council will identify a list of strategic enterprises that are not privatized, and we will look at it further. There's one more thing that's very interesting here. Who needs it? We're putting a monopoly company on the market right now. There's a lot of people here telling me that a monopoly is the same thing. That's what the state has to give up. And I think a monopoly is something that shouldn't be sold by the state, because otherwise I have the idea that a few oligarchs want to continue to win and privatize.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u100	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u101	I have the idea that at this time, just a few oligarchs who had torn the country apart before are going to privatize the industries that had not yet been fed before. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u102	Please, from the Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen! There is no clear list of critical infrastructures of the state, military, defence, transport. There is no responsible fund manager. A huge risk that state privatization will turn into a mere theft of state property. We can't let that happen. But on the other hand, demonopolization, deregulation and privatization are the main pillars of a liberal economy that generates funds into the state budget. So we have to move forward. But in this legislation, this bill has several grave errors. First. Mr. Prime Minister, there is no guarantee that state property will fall into the hands of the owners of our enemy, Russia. There is no security in the hands of a black FATF list. There is no guarantee that those good - quality, figuratively speaking, Ukrainian buyers will sell it in Russian hands within a month. More than that, Mr. Prime Minister. You're a former mayor. A despot of central power. Today, municipal property under this law will be sold by central authorities. You're out of your mind! Few things in the budget of 18th year are practically destroying fiscal decentralization, and the property of today's communities, villages and cities want to sell through the central authorities. If these fuses are in the first reading, ladies and gentlemen, we can consider voting in the first reading. And then there's a lot of questions about the evaluation, about the representatives and the advisors who are going to sell it. As far as the earth is It turns out that it is possible to sell an object, not to sell land. Many questions, but the first three are the most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give a speech from Fatherland. There hasn't been a performance yet, has there? Please, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u105	Sobolje, Fatherland. In general, what is the issue after a reduced procedure, well, I think it's just a violation of Parliament. But essentially. Mr. Prime Minister, we have examined the bill. A few key things. Without defining a clear list of strategic enterprises, and not only strategic enterprises of state-owned enterprises, but also municipal property, such as the captured Kyivénergo of Ahmetov and other enterprises, this law does not have the right to exist at all. The other one. Without establishing a clear procedure to prohibit the reselling of property that will be purchased in the privatization process by the Ukrainian owner and reselled to the Russian owner, this law does not have the right to exist. We've had enough of Zaporezium Aluminum. Third. Without a clear definition, without any restrictions, direct prohibition on privatization of companies that have even one share in offshore jurisdictions, this law does not have the right to exist. And the last. Let us free the mayors of cities from corrupt practices of corruption. When an industrial object is sold without land. And then this entrepreneur, who has invested tens of millions of dollars, goes into the city and begs the land for bribes! These are the four key things that need to be announced right now. Without them, our faction will give the votes except for the rereading of the first reading. There can be no other choice here. Playing with fire under such a law is impossible. This is the position of the Fatherland faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u106	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm going to give two more shows to the non-factional. One minute is the Pigeon, one minute is the Levchenko. Then I will give both the head of the committee, and the deputy minister, and the prime minister, and we will go to the vote. Please, dove, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u107	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. You know, for over a quarter of a century, we've been living in conditions where our assets were privatized, except for these isolated cases, it's not clear. That's why I welcome the government's position and their desire to have really clear rules on the privatization market. This is what a Ukrainian investor and a foreign investor are waiting for. So it's very important, Vladimir Borisovich, that we take into account a number of positions before the second reading when an official cannot disqualify or allow a good investor on such conditional issues. It's overwhelming. We need to strengthen the role of counselors in major privatization. We need to strengthen a number of other regulations that will not allow unfair privatization. And also by supporting colleagues who say that we should not allow the sale of strategically important enterprises to the state, it is critical to note that this bill lays down the rules of the game, but does not establish a list.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u108	Thank you. We really can't make it easy. One minute, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u109	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Instead of correcting the mistakes of previous Supreme Councils that allowed for the crackdown of strategic state property and leaving Ukrainians completely vulnerable to private monopolies in the energy-generating sector, before an oligarhat who has robbed and now holds urban enterprises and controls entire cities instead of correcting and nationalizing such important enterprises, monopolies and enterprises strategically, enterprises. natural monopolies, this Supreme Council wants to continue the activities of these predecessors and wants to simplify the privatization process during the war, with a variety of nice slogans. Privatization during war is unacceptable. It's particularly unacceptable to privatize any income-generating enterprise. Because simple arithmetic shows that profit is more than a profit tax. So these things are unacceptable, "Freedom" is going to vote against and call on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u110	Thank you. There were warnings and suggestions. And that's why I'm giving, first of all, one minute to Nephedov, Deputy Minister of Economics. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for all the suggestions that have been made. I want to make a very brief comment that this bill concerns the privatization process, we ask you to improve this process, to work with those enterprises that are already allowed to privatize, and only then to contact the Supreme Council for possible expansion of the list and exclusion from the list of those who are not allowed to privatize. I want to say that we will support and work together with the people's deputies on the second reading of the issue of improving the provisions of the law with a view to eliminating the possibility of abuse, preventing the disqualification of good investors, improving the regulation of the privatization of municipal property in order to regulate the provisions of this law and to implement local self-government, as well as reducing the risks for good-natured investors on the terms of the contract of sale to obtain the permit of concentration from the AMC, the position on the application of the law of the foreign state, the exclusion, the non-admissibility of companies from offshore jurisdictions on which the Fate of Fatherland insisted, and so on. So thank you for your cooperation, and I am very grateful for your support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, from the Committee of Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, the performances are over, we just can't make it to the second hour. Now it's Ivanchuk, then it's Vladimir Borisovich, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm very much asking the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction to support this bill in the first reading as a basis for it to become the property of the Supreme Council, a government bill. On the second reading stage, you know that the Economic Policy Committee is always very attentive to the legislative initiatives of the national MPs. I am convinced that with the help of MPs from the Self-Help faction, MPs from the Fatherland faction, MPs from the Rebirth faction, deputies from the will of the people faction, we will make appropriate changes to the bill and we will make a decision for the second reading. If this bill satisfies all the factions and groups, we're going to make it in general, if we fail to balance it and improve it, we're going to make another appropriate decision. So I'm asking you very much, honourable national MPs, let's be logical, let's support the bill in the first reading, let's take it to the Supreme Council site, work it out all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, to my profound conviction, this is a very important bill. As soon as I was approached by the Ministry, we found a compromise formulation with which we could accept it in the first reading. I'm going to give you one minute to read out the compromise formulation of the Ostrich deputy, and then we're going to vote. But briefly, under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the head of our faction, speaking from the rostrum, sounded those self-help warnings, under which we are ready to support this bill in the first reading. I'll read it. This is part of the third article 3, clarifying the text. Under the stenogram. The privatization of property in municipal property is regulated by the provisions of this law and is carried out by local authorities. We also demand that the decision be taken to prevent any involvement in the privatization of buyers who have a non-transparent ownership structure, whose beneficial owners are 100 percent undiscovered, and who refer to the countries of the aggressor or come from offshore jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u116	So please, Vladimir Borisovich. Vladimir Borisovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u117	Thank you. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, once again, I would like to focus your attention, my fellow Members, on why there are such problems in Ukraine. But because they didn't make the necessary reforms in time -- and people are finally struggling with low wages, and the public sector is the biggest source of corruption in the country. I'm talking about it quite frankly. We just have to eliminate it, create the same conditions as in other European countries, so that there are effective owners. And now it's just about making completely transparent competitive procedures. When it is possible for everyone in the country to buy property, not those who are chosen by authority alone. So I want to emphasize that this is very important. The second question is this is about strategic enterprises. Nobody's ever going to sell strategic enterprises is our wealth, and we're going to have to build quality, efficient management and provide profits to these companies that are going to be paid into the budget. And the third position. It is necessary to keep the municipal property in order because, unfortunately, some city councils are also parasitizing and concealing the income from managing this property. As soon as I became mayor for the first time, I immediately increased the income on land by 4.2 times, and I had a question about where these funds were before, and today, this question is also very important for local communities to effectively fill budgets. And finally, I'd like to point out that there was a series of normal proposals, and some of them were just read by Auntie Ostrike. We can include them in order to prepare a quality privatization model in the country with you from first reading to second reading, and then we'll have a list that we'll work on separately and completely publicly. And there was this saying in this room, "Hold your throat." I can say one thing, my friends, I want to do a lot of quality things for the Ukrainians and for our country, so the more I need to do is to support the initiatives that the government and the Prime Minister have taken, and so that we can be able to make the right state decisions with you. And for such decisions, I thank the deputies, thank you to the factions who always, regardless of their political interest, make public decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u118	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Sergei, we won't be able to make it. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. 59 already, we'll just crash. By the way, I'm going 15 minutes. Colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. I know, I thought it was your common ground, and it turns out you're not in the same position, you're in the same position. Colleagues! 30 seconds, Sobolev. Please, 30 seconds. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u119	Sobolje, Fatherland. We make a specific suggestion: to make a second reading: first, to settle the land privatization issue under industrial objects, so that it is not told that there is no such thing; secondly, a clear record: banning the privatization of those who refer to offshore jurisdictions -- a direct record. Third: the prohibition of reselling property that was purchased by Ukrainian owners in the aggressor country is the third. And number four: add a list of strategic enterprises to the second reading, including utilities that are not subject to privatization under any circumstances. If these four conditions are perceived, they're perfectly clear, then we understand that conceptually for the second reading, the law is being prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-09-m0.u120	Thank you. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. And I put it to a vote -- I stress, that's just the basis, that's just the basis, colleagues -- of the Law on Privatization of State Property. The new edition, number 7066, with the law that was agreed between the Ministry and which was resonated under the transcript by the national deputy Ostrika. On the ground, colleagues, just on the ground. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. Colleagues, carefully, each voice has a weight, it's an anti-corruption law. Please back him up, please vote. [[14:00:40]] For 258. Decision taken. Don't leave the hall, colleagues, don't leave the hall. Now, I've said this before lunch, we have to vote against the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act, 6011 the agenda. Don't leave, colleagues, it's our commitment to the Venice Commission, it's the public position of the President of Ukraine and all of us, it doesn't need to be discussed in the same way as inclusion and exclusion. And I now put to the vote a motion to withdraw the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act (6011) from the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please support and vote, all the halls, colleagues, this is our international authority. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Everyone promised to vote, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues, please back up, please back up. [[14:01:42]] For a hundred and My colleagues, not all of them, not all of them. Please come into the hall, switch jobs. This is our offer, our commitment to the Venice Commission. Yesterday, the President of Ukraine issued a public appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act from the agenda of the day. It's a formal thing, it's one second, I'm asking everyone to take their jobs and vote. Please support, everyone, the withdrawal from the agenda of the day session of the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act 6011. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues, vote. Please be supportive. All the factions have confirmed my support for this decision. Please vote. [[2:02:39]] For 196 196. Not all of them were orientated, colleagues. The factions. Let me show you through the factions. No, colleagues, I'm asking you once again, not a colleague. Please. I'll put it up after lunch, I'll put my colleagues back together. All right, after lunch, I'll do it again after lunch. Colleagues, consult, obviously, but they just didn't. It is simply our structural responsibility, procedural. And I'm going to ask everyone to consult, and I'm going to set it up again after lunch. Guys, we've had a rough day. South, south, meeting in the morning. I'm asking everyone to come at 4:00. We have a lot of important issues ahead of us. I now declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I ask everyone to come to the hall at 4:00 to continue our work.
