ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for recess is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask you to invite all the national deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Can we register? So please take part in the registration. Please register. Please register. [[16:04:45]] 365 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, may I have your attention in the hall? We're going to assume that we had a fighting arrangement by noon, and now we can work effectively and effectively. Now we have a block of second-reading issues, among them: the draft Food Safety and Hygiene Act, this is a Euro-Integration issue that is necessary to fulfil our obligations; this is a draft Public Procurement Act, as well as a draft law that is necessary for the implementation of the Euro-Integration Programme; the Parking Act; the National Bank of Ukraine Credit Register Act. And, colleagues, if we work together, we can pass these four laws. The biggest number of them is the Parking Act, there are 345 rights. The following laws have a minimum number of rejected rights, such as the hygiene of feeds, only three rejected rights, and the public procurement of only eight rejected rights. So my suggestion is that we can mobilize. I'm going to be the first to ask this block the question of parking vehicles. This is an important question for the city of Kiev, especially now that we see snowfalls. During the discussion of rights, we will be able to mobilise and then pass Euro-integration laws that are actually very short. Does that make sense, colleagues? So I'm asking you now to hold final political consultations, to put aside opposition and contradictions so that we can make positive and important decisions. And so, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to get ready for work. Let me remind you again, I want to remind you that today we have a calendar plan for the next plenary meeting, and it will also be important that we have a discussion and that we can make the necessary decision. And during the calendar plan, colleagues. And, colleagues, during the decision-making of the calendar plan, there will be a proposal from the delegation of our Parliamentary Assembly, we have the second week of January, colleagues, the second week of January, at a meeting of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly. And that puts the full work of the second week at risk. Let me remind you, we have the first week scheduled for January 16, 17, 18, and the second week scheduled for January 22. This calls for a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly. And there'll be a proposal from the delegation that we take this week so that we don't put our delegation at risk this week. You, colleagues, all know what a difficult situation is now and how important and responsible the work of our delegation is to prevent the return of the delegation of the Russian Federation. And I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should come to the request of our delegation and carry the second week of January. But that's what we're going to talk about when it comes to the calendar plan. And now, I remind you once again of the sequence that is determined by the order of the day so that you can hold consultations. First, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the area of transport parking, only 345 rights, of which 170 were rejected. The next question will be question 2845, this is the draft Law on Food Safety and Hygiene, there are only three rejected remedies. After that, I will once again put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law 6675, except for the inclusion of the day session, without consideration, of the inclusion. Then we can go to 4738d about public purchases, there's only 43 allowances and eight of them rejected, that's also 10 minutes. And I hope that we can get to Bill 7114-d, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the creation and maintenance of the credit register of the National Bank of Ukraine and the improvement of credit risk management processes for banks, there are 25 rejected rights. That's the logic. We'll be able to get through it completely. Does the House support the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Supports the hall. And so we're going to draft Law 5364, and I'm inviting you to report to the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Anton Heraszczenko for a report on draft Law 5364. Please, Mr. Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! For your second reading, you will see Bill 5364 amending some of the legislation on reforming the area of parking. This bill is designed for the purpose of conducting a comfortable, civilized vehicle parking system in Ukraine based on European practice and balancing the interests of the local community and motorists. Among other things, the project envisages the creation of a legislative mechanism for the irreparability of punishment and responsibility for violations of the rules of stopping, parking, and parking of vehicles through photo shoots, video recordings of offences. Parking inspectors, officials of the local self-government authorities are given the right to be held accountable for violators of the parking rules, to be parked within the area of the seat concerned, and to be temporarily detained by means of evacuation by means of an evacuation to be delivered to the special storage facility, provided that the location of the vehicle significantly impedes traffic or poses a threat to traffic safety. It is anticipated that the amount of fines for violating parking rules will be tied to the cost of one 20 - hour parking. The register of owners of vehicles owned by the Ministry of Transportation provides for the creation of a separate "appropriate user" field. Thus, in cases where the owner and the driver are different persons, the fine will be given to the right user, whose information has been entered into the register. The liability of legal persons has been replaced by the responsibility of the head of the legal entity under article 265-2 on the evacuation of means of transport by the police, unified by article 265-4 on the evacuation of inspectors from parking. The designated responsibility of parking inspectors, the collection of cash as payment, and the payment of fines. In the preparation of the bill (registration number 5364), 345 proposals were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading of the bill (registration number 5364), which were processed and included in the comparative table. There are 175 proposals made by national deputies, 170 proposals rejected, and all grounds for rejected amendments are set out in the table below. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Legislative Security adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend certain legislative acts on the reform of the second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Please identify yourself and vote without amendment as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u3	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. And I'm going to ask the right-wing authors to be able to go through this bill quickly and effectively. So traditionally, I'm going to call these changes that are rejected and the authors are going to say whether they insist. First, 7th. Don't insist. 13th. He insists. 9th, Anointed, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u4	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, my statement refers to the revision of the 9th, the table says it's partially counted. I want to add some adjustments here, it's not completely accounted for. So in principle, I'd like to ask the representative who's on the stand right now and the representatives of the committee to prepare the documents for the second reading or to prepare the table more correctly. Because my amendment was to make the legal responsibility of the person who was currently in charge of the vehicle, not the owner. At the end of the day, there's nothing to take into account, that is, if you own a car, if someone else is driving it, if someone else is driving it, if they parked it wrong, then the answer will still be the owner. It doesn't matter how this was done, and without proof of guilt, it's actually going to happen. So I'm not insisting on voting right now, I'm just asking that a more competent table be prepared for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u5	We're moving on if you don't insist. Corchik, 16th. Don't insist. Anointed, 18th, don't you insist? If you insist, Mr. Pamzanov would like you to raise your hand on another amendment, please, because there are many amendments. On the 18th, please, the microphone, the Amazan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u6	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues! I realize that the law doesn't have to be extended in time, and I'm not going to insist on my work, but I want to point out that today, really, parking in Kiev, if we're taking, for example, the capital is pretty complicated. And today we see these parking spaces, which are not really very intellectual and today we want to make these highly educated people inspectors who are going to fine everyone for misparking. I think it's wrong, I think it should be people who still have a bearing on law enforcement, not just some people in some orange or other color vest. So, honourable colleagues, before voting, I ask you very carefully to look at all of the bill's standards for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u7	I see. We don't vote, we move on after 18 amendments. Thank you for your clarification, dear Mr. Amazanov. Wheelchairs, there's your next correction. National Deputy Kolesnik, don't you think? Thank you for the design. Olena Sotnik? Not yet. There are repairs. Your Lechchenko hasn't been amended yet. I keep an eye on your amendments always. Yuri Bereza. Don't insist. Lechenko, 50 repairs. Please, 50th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u8	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Proposals for the introduction of administrative responsibility for non-payment of the value of services using a paid parking space are undervalued. Since the obligation to pay the cost of using a paid parking space must be met in civil and legal ways, such as a fine or a penny. Because if such an approach is taken that the failure to use requires administrative responsibility, then let us establish administrative responsibility for the timely payment of quarterly payments, energy, heating, and water supplies. So this is obvious nonsense, this is not consistent with the nature of the corresponding legal relationship. Therefore, yes, there should be administrative responsibility for violating the rules of parking for vehicles, but not for the cost of services. There must be a penny or a fine, not an administrative responsibility. So I'm going to ask you to clear this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u9	Please determine the 50th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. [[16:18:31]] For-40 40 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Next, 53rd, Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u10	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to hold individuals responsible for violating any rules on parking means of transport, particularly those relating to their own rules of each course. This may lead to the invocation of responsibility for any failure to comply with the rules on a particular field of rules. With a view to avoiding abuse by operators who keep track of the sites to date, it is suggested that the content of the relevant rules be detailed to determine the composition of administrative offences in this area. In addition, the project proposes to determine the penalty for violating the rules of parking for vehicles at the cost of one hour of service. Therefore, we believe that such sanctions are appropriate to apply precisely to the cost of using the course. For other violations, it is more appropriate to determine sanctions due to tax-free citizens’ income. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u11	I understood your explanation. Amendment No. 53 of the Seminya People’s Deputy, who was rejected by the Committee, is subject to a vote. [[16:19:54]] For-42 42 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Next, 56th, Anointed. Don't insist. Let's move on. I'm sorry. 64th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 66th, Anointed. Don't insist. Semenha, 71st. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u12	I don't insist, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u13	I heard. I am still looking for unaccounted for corrections. Thank you very much. 96th. Anointing. Don't insist. Stashuk, 114th. Don't insist. We're on the move, colleagues. Dove, 131st. Don't insist. Anointed, 134th. Don't insist. Shoemaker, 147th. Don't insist. Semenha, 145th. Please. I see it, I see it. I spilled this page.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u14	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, with this right. It's about getting back evacuated for breaking into a car. Thus, according to the draft law, a evacuated car may, apart from the owner, also be given to a person who, at the time of the identification of the offence, actually controlled the vehicle. I mean, maybe the intruder. Even if he stole that car. The requirement to present any documents on the return of the vehicle, proving the right to own or to drive a car in the bill, is unfortunately not foreseen. Just pay the fine. So I'm asking you to explain to the reporter how. There will be no abuse because of this gap. Therefore, I propose to introduce into the draft law the conditions for the return of a car to such a person is the need to present appropriate documents that confirm that he actually owns and uses this means of transport on legal grounds. Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, Mr. Anton, comment. 145th Amendment. And the arrest of a transporter and his return.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u16	Today it is thought that if the car is not searched, and the car owner has given it, for example, I give it to you, you can only use it if you have a driver's license and a technical passport. If you have committed a violation of parking or parking rules, this is still a minor administrative offence. If you paid the fine, we don't see any problem getting this car back to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u17	We heard an explanation from the committee. And with the insistence of the Semenah People's Deputy, we put to the vote the amendment of 145 of the Semimenah People's Deputies, which the Committee rejected. Please vote, identify the hall. [[16:23:54]] Z-62 62 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Most of the time, we have the amendments of the People’s Deputy of Amazanova. Mr. Amazanov, are you insisting? Don't insist, yes. There's an amendment, Mrs. Olena Sotnik. She doesn't insist either. Mrs. Oksana Prodan doesn't insist either. Mr. Kolesnikov doesn't insist either. We will look for amendments to colleagues who insist on their comments. Yuri Bereza, Amendment No. 254, does not insist. Now, two minutes, colleagues. We're working very hard on the amendments. Don't press the rostrum or the chair all day. What is going on? What is happening on the last day of work? Amendment No. 258 of the People's Deputy of Amazanova. In the meantime, my colleague would like me to return to the session room. Because the Opposition Block, here, requires an immediate vote. We will now return to the hall and vote in favour of this bill. And now the amendment of 258 People's Deputies of Amazanova. I'm going to ask the People's Deputy of Amazan to turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u18	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. I actually have a few very basic conceptual points before this bill. This is the first moment that I've talked about, about so-called inspectors, who will have, as for me, huge rights to fine, evacuate, well actually impose the charges on the owner of the vehicle, not even on the driver, but on the owner of the vehicle. And the second question is conceptual. In this law, however, I have proposed that my rights also increase responsibility for parking operators. Sadly, though, the committee did not consider the amendment. As for me, it needs to be taken into account, because if a parking lot is not equipped with suitable pay-per-view devices that are not equipped with suitable slugbaums, then the operator should be responsible in an increased size, not in the same way that the second reading is now offered. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u19	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, according to the insistence of the People’s Deputies of Amazanova, we put to the vote 258 amendments. This is the National Deputy of Amazanova, not counted by the Committee, but the Hall has to be defined. Please vote. [[16:27:30.]] For-61 61 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. The following amendment is made by the 262 national deputy of Biloczerkovec. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u20	Please place 262 amendments to the vote for confirmation by way of a rating vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u21	Thank you. I want to say that this amendment relates to the rules of violation, the rules of stopping and parking, and the committee rejected it. That's why we can't put it on confirmation and rating vote, just for the vote. This is the amendment of the national deputies of Biloczerkovec and Ariev, and we now simply put it to the vote on the request of the authors. Colleagues, please vote. Appointing. [[16:28:37]] For-53 Not supported. 53 votes for it alone. So your amendment is rejected, my colleague. The 278. People's Deputy Anointed Amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, in fact, we are finishing with you now to discuss this bill. Now we've got 304. The shore of Yuri is not. I ask you to return to the session room, we have literally two amendments left. Colleagues, we've completed our consideration of the amendments, because the committee, for which we thank him very much, has worked hard on the amendments, very carefully and, in fact, all are either considered or are not principled and conceptual. We now give the floor to Anton Gerashchenko to the representative of the profile committee who reported on the parking bill for the second reading. Please summarize our discussion. And we're also very much asking that we don't lose this important bill, that we all go back to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u22	Thank you. So, colleagues, before giving the closing word to Anton Heraszczenko, I ask all the heads of factions to invite as many deputies as possible into the Hall and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall. The committee’s professional work in preparing the bill was very long - term. Most rights have been agreed, and previous political consultations have demonstrated that this law supports all factions of Parliament. And I would like to stress, everyone, especially now that we see snowfalls on the street, this is an important question, especially for the great Ukrainian cities and the city of Kiev. So I ask everyone to take a responsible approach to this vote, put aside any political moments and ask everyone to come into the room, in two minutes there will be a decision-making process. Please, everyone, come to the hall. Anton Heratchenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u23	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished national MPs, distinguished chairman, respected representatives of the media! First of all, I want to thank all the public activists who have joined in drafting this law, all the people's deputies, all the heads of factions, all the mayors of cities who want to make our cities European, developed and where traffic jams will be an exception, not a rule that is now. I have a letter in my hands signed by the Management of the Association of Ukrainian Cities at the meeting. At the convention of the cities of Ukraine, 324 leaders of large cities, towns, villages of Ukraine signed a letter to the Supreme Council requesting support for this law. These are all our constituents. By enacting this law, we are really making a revolution in the field of driving and parking in our country's cities. Please all factions without exception, this law is not political, this law is necessary to make our cities European and prosperous. Thank you for your attention and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u24	Thank you for the report, Mr. Anton. You can take your job. It was powerful. Thank you. Thank you. And so we move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, I ask very carefully to participate in the vote. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on reform in the area of parking vehicles (No. 5364), and I am proposing to the committee a second-reading vote and, as a whole, a technical legal order. Please support Ukrainian cities, please support Ukrainian citizens, please support 5364 in second reading and in general. Vote, fellows! Careful! Every voice. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:33:37]] For 237 Law accepted, colleagues. So now she's here. Now, colleagues, one minute. First, as we agreed, I'm going to re-supply the inclusion of just one bill in the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for Public Information on the Financing of Public Associations and the Use of International Technical Assistance (6675). Just getting into the agenda of the day session, we're not going to be looking at it today, it's just going to give the committee a chance to look at it. So I'm asking you to mobilize, concentrate, and I'm asking you to maintain the agenda for the 6675 session. Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:34:50]] For-119 The decision is not taken. And so now I'm announcing a statement from two factions: the Fatherland faction and the Self-Help faction. But they're ready to change the break for the performance. So three minutes. And then the calendar plan, colleagues. I'm asking you to stay put. After the speech, we'll be discussing the issue of "The Calendar Plan." And who of the two factions will act? Berezuk Oleg, three minutes. Please make a statement from the rostrum. After that, the calendar plan. Please don't split up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, while the oligarchs are not only walking around the country, but are looting the Ukrainian budget cynically, until their vassals are not only outside this hall, but including in this hall, walking quietly, spitting in their eyes and saying that the rain is falling until no one has been punished by the war in Ukraine, but the boys and girls who have risen up against the war, the despoties and corruption, today in prisons and not alone. Today, he was arrested and sent to Kharkiv of Zaporozhye, head of Self-Help in Zaporozhye. He went to Zaporozhye. It's about me. At the same time, Zaporozhye and the east are filled with despotism and tyranny of those who have destroyed and destroyed the Ukrainian state. Why the Harks, we've already been informed from inside sources. Because Kharkiv is unappealingly following all of Banking's instructions. And the Bank's, the President's Administration, in this particular case, absolutely political-motivated, said, "Put it down." Where? In Kharkiv, because that's where they're going to carry out this assignment. This operation is personally managed by the deputy of the Girl’s SBU. This operation is personally carried out by the Attorney General. Why? Because this is the most important operation, the discrediting of those who struggle against tyranny and self - control. We are all ready to stand before a court of justice. But not a court ruled by those who rob the Ukrainian state and throw it into war. I think it's time to say no. Over the course of the year, people in Zaporozhye were subjected to bullying and pressure, with the will and support of the people. Where? In Zaporozhye. But Zaporozhye's despotion won't forgive them, so they blackmailed themselves with the use of the highest authority in the state of the President's administration. It's a disgrace, and we'll never give in to it, you won't scare us, you'll bring people around us who are desperate to give back to those who are ruining Ukrainian statehood. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u26	Thank you. And the next statement from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party -- they're also ready to take a break from the rostrum, and that's a joy. And he's invited to the speech by Oleg Valeriovich Lazko and his faction. Please, colleagues, come on. Three minutes, time for the show, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u27	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. As a result of the fall in the exchange rate, millions of Ukrainians have lost their savings, their wages, their pensions. The bracelet is falling because of Nazbank's inaction. Because Natzbank is running a policy of actual theft of every Ukrainian. Who's having fun in this Parliamentary Hall, go to the store and see how much they cost, milk, eggs, go to the market. Ukrainians can't cover the front table or the foreclosure table right now, because the prices are going up. At this time, the head of the National Bank of Honduras is on vacation for seven months. The conscience allows her to stay on vacation. Instead of coming to parliament, informing the Ukrainians about their work, telling them that the National Bank, which the authorities are doing to protect wages, pensions, savings of Ukrainians. Not stealing from them. We demand to Parliament immediately tomorrow the head of Nazbank Gontarevo with a report on the currency market situation. With a report on what the National Bank is doing to enable the lending of national businesses to save the savings of Ukrainians so that inflation will not be allowed to rob again in an artificial way millions of people when the units of those in power charge the pockets at the expense of millions of Ukrainian citizens. We ask President Prashenko to submit to the Supreme Council without delay for the release of Hontareva from office as head of the National Bank of Ukraine and to make an application to appoint the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. This cannot be the case when inflation consumes the savings of all Ukrainian citizens, the President is silent, and the head of the National Bank is on vacation. It's unfair, it's immoral, it's irresponsible in front of people, and it's unfair in front of every Ukrainian. I demand power to act, to protect wages, pensions, savings. Protecting people from inflation, from looting, from poverty, and from action, and from stealing. Human rights questions. The appointment of Nazbank's head to a new one, the reduction of the loan bill, available credits for the national business to develop our economy, rather than impoverished by the powerlessness and inaction of the President. We demand that the President, the authorities, stop robbing the Ukrainians and protect the people if they can. If not, then what do we need them for? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u28	So, colleagues, two performances took place. The next question is the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a draft decree on the calendar plan for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. This is a matter of organizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to hold the record. To vote first, to support the consideration of this decree by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Please support, this is the schedule of plenary meetings of the following. Short-term procedure so we don't waste an hour on it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote on the reduced procedure. Please support me. This is the schedule for the next plenary period. Vote. [[16:42:42]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u29	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A draft Decision on the calendar plan for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call for registration number 7423 is proposed for your consideration. A draft prepared in accordance with the requirements of article 83 of the Constitution and articles 10, 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and taking into account the holidays and non-working days set out in article 73 of the Labour Code, as well as the schedule for holding the next sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 23 to 27 April and from 25 to 29 June 2018. The project is proposed to begin the eighth February 6th session and to conclude on July 20, 2018, July 13, to announce the closing time of the session. During the sessions, sessions are held for the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council for 12 weeks; for committees, commissions, factions, groups for 7 weeks; for the work of national deputies with voters for 5 weeks; for the "hours of questions to the Government" for 12 hours. I also inform you that the draft calendar plan for the eighth session was sent to all MP factions and groups and to the management of the Supreme Council's apparatus for consideration, supply. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft decision 7423 on the basis and in general. At the same time, the leaders of the MPs are proposing changes to the project, namely, that in February of the 19th to 23rd weeks, people's deputies work with voters instead of holding plenary meetings, and that the week of February 26th to March 2nd be scheduled for plenary meetings instead of electorate work. Taking these changes into account, please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u30	Thank you, colleagues. So I want to remind you that I've made a call from the Parliamentary Delegation to Paris. It reads: "In connection with the participation of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Rules, I propose to amend the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Assembly and to provide for the work of the National Deputies in committees and factions in the week 22-26 of January 2018." I'll put it to a vote. And I give Arthur Gerasim's word for the speech. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, two minutes. And let's get to the vote, please all come into the room and prepare for the vote. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, please support all the calendars of the next session, but with one amendment in mind. The second plenary week of February is to be carried forward for one week. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u32	Colleagues, move on. It's a goose from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u33	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! What's going on in the hall? In fact, we are asked to cancel one plenary week in January. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine works very little and, unfortunately, is very ineffective. I understand that we all want, it's normal human quality, it's less work. But dozens of important bills -- economic, social -- this Supreme Council just can't deal with it. And now we're being offered to give up another plenary week. And the same applies to the calendar of the next session. There must be more plenary weeks. And, honourable colleagues, the Ukrainian Parliament, we believe, should draw up its own agenda, based on the interests, first and foremost, of the Ukrainian people and what the Ukrainians need. And secondly, there should be visits to various parliamentary assemblies, consultations with partners, and so on. We should not be attached to them. Therefore, the faction of the Opposition Block will not vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u34	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u35	Thank you. As colleagues study carefully the calendar plan, let's just say where that proposal comes from. The point is that as of January 22, a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe begins to be considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I'm talking about. I'm just a little bit backed up by my colleagues from Fatherland in this case. As of January 22, a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe begins, which will address two issues of principle for Ukraine. Including those that are very important to the opposition block faction. Tuesday, on this sessional day, we will be discussing the debate, the resolution on the humanitarian situation on Donbas. And this resolution is very important to us. The resolution on language issues in Eastern European countries will also be considered on this day. And obviously, first of all, it's going to be about Ukraine again, about the issue of our Education Act and this language article. And that's going to be the second resolution after that in October. Today, 24 national deputies are included in the Ukrainian delegation from Parliament to the Council of Europe. That's enough. And by the way, 12 of them are from the opposition. And there was a vision that, taking into account these three key issues, especially the resolution on the humanitarian situation in Donbassa, we have now to have a debate on how to do our work right now in January. Here's what we're talking about. Here's what we're talking about. No, that was an explanation. And let's look for a way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u36	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I want everyone's attention. Only one correction is made. Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, Mr. Arthur, may I have your attention? The MPs have pointed out that if we move the week 19 ahead, it's going to be almost three weeks in a row. So the suggestion is that in February there will be the first two weeks, not forward, but back. Is this position supported? We start the 6th and in February two weeks right away, yeah. Roger that. Roger that. Colleagues, pay attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, there are very constructive discussions of the calendar plan for the following year, so that there will be time and work in the sessional weeks, and work on the committees, and of course work in the districts, and in order for there to be no, three sessions of weeks were not to be a break for work in the districts. Just a few minutes. Emotional consultations in the Presidium and we'll get the right result.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u38	So, colleagues, now the main question is whether in February the third week is to move forward a week or a week ago. This discussion will now be concluded, and we will put it to a vote. Please, 30 seconds. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm going to be the first to propose to the head of the Gerasimov Faction. So, colleagues, I'm going to make an offer that Arthur Gerasimov made. So that we can make the third week of February the session week the fourth of February. One change, one transfer at the request of Peter Dustenk's Block. I'm asking you to take up jobs and I'm going to put in a proposal that Arthur Gerasimov gave me. Please mobilize, please support, colleagues, this offer and please take your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft decree on the calendar plan for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call for an amendment, which I announced under the transcript of the week of January 22 to 26, the work of the National Deputies in committees and factions, as well as the proposal that Arthur Herasimov made on the basis of the stenogram and in general. Colleagues, please vote, please support, this is the organization of our work. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote on the amendment of Gerasimov. Please be supportive. We vote carefully each voice. Please be supportive. Vote! [[16:54:41]] For 206 Colleagues, what is the misunderstanding? This is the position you just agreed to right here at the Presidium.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u39	Again, huh? Are you sure? This is the agreed position that everyone has agreed on. So I'm asking you to take the job and I'm going to put it to the vote again. And, colleagues, please all mobilize. Let me show you through the factions. Please, by the factions. All factions vote. Colleagues, please mobilize, please take up jobs. And I'm putting once again to the vote the Bill of Order 7423 with the amendment that I've made to the transcript, and with Arthur Gerasimov's law, which he has written under the transcript, on the basis of the whole. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please, each voice, please support. Vote. This is the agreed position that has just been agreed upon here. Please support, we vote. Please be supportive. [[16:56:03]] For 222 Four votes. I'll put it again, colleagues. Please take all jobs, four votes is not enough. Please. Please come into the hall. So, colleagues, have they mobilized? Please, every voice. I don't know what the agreed position is, which we've all just agreed on together, is the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is the request of our delegation to Paris. Do we really want to disrupt the work of our delegation, the international activity of Ukraine? Colleagues, be responsible for the vote. Please take up jobs and support them. Once again, I'm putting 7423 as amended by my and Gerasimov as a foundation and as a whole. I ask your support, colleagues, please vote and support everyone. Vote. Please support everyone. Please support international activities and the calendar plan. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[16:57:23]] For 224 Two votes. [[Noise Nodes]] Guys, I'll put it back on. Please enter the hall, take your seats. [[Noise Nodes]] Please take your seats, two votes. Please take your seats. I see. Please take up jobs. So once again, I'm putting 7423 with the amendment that Gerasimov and I made to the transcript. And, colleagues, please all, two votes, mobilize. Please vote and please support, colleagues. So, colleagues, we vote, please support. Support the delegation in South Africa, support the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:58:38]] For 229 Decision taken. This takes the most time, colleagues, debates, and card games. Colleagues, now, pay attention! The next bill, which is in the order of the day, is the draft Law on Food Safety and Hygiene (2845). There's only three rejected revisions. This is a bill, which is also a bill necessary for European integration, which we stress on every Conciliation Council. So I'm asking you not to break up, there's only three rejected amendments. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Mr. Bakumenko Aleksandra Borisovich. Please make a brief report and ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u40	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Food Safety and Hygiene Act (registration No. 2845), prepared for second reading, taking into account the individual provisions of the 2845-1 alternative bill, is proposed. Unlike the EU, there is no special legislation in Ukraine today that regulates the production and circulation of feed, so the adoption of this bill is an important step both for the improvement of Ukraine's national legislation and for its harmonisation with EU legislation. The legislation on food safety and hygiene is designed to guarantee the safety of food during its production, circulation and use. In particular, it comprehensively regulates the hygiene of food production, guarantees the safety of feed additives through their national registration system, lays down requirements for food monitoring and labelling, establishes the rights and responsibilities of food market operators, and empowers executive authorities in this field. The adoption of this bill will, first of all, allow for a high level of safety of feed and food products of animal origin. That is, it will strengthen consumer protection against junk products. Secondly, the introduction of European requirements for the production and circulation of feed will allow the export of domestic food and animal food to European and world markets to be expanded. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting considered the amended bill. The bill had 67 amendments, of which 48 were included, four were taken into account, 12 were taken into account, and three were rejected. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on food safety and hygiene, to adopt a second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, the committee carried out such a professional job that only three were rejected, and all three of the amendments were made by the Kulinić national deputy. Now I give him my word. And please don't split up, because the vote will take place literally in a few minutes. Now turn on the right-wing microphone, National MP Kulinic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I insist on 6 to the right. This amendment refers to the definition of "economy." This amendment is only editorial in nature, in fact, in the first-reading edition the owner is separated from the buildings, buildings, and so on. So we're actually proposing this right to combine the owner with his property. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u43	Thank you very much. I want to say that 6 of these were rejected by the committee, but the Kulinic people's deputy insists on voting, and that's why I'm putting it to a vote. Whoever supports the 6th amendment, please vote, the committee has rejected it, please. [[17:02:43]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Next you insist, turn on the microphone – Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u44	Thirty-one. This amendment is a principle, in my opinion. However, the text that is proposed for individual requirements for the labelling of feedingstuffs can be set at the level of the regulations. This can lead to a very negative situation, because we all know how slowly we are developing a subcontract. So the law goes into effect, but it won't work. That's why I insist on this right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u45	Thank you. The 31st amendment was rejected by the committee, but the Kulinic national deputy insists on voting. That's why I'm voting. Anyone who supports it, please vote, has been rejected by the committee. Please. [[17:03:34]] For-86 The decision is not taken. And so we're done discussing rights, colleagues, and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. Thank you very much for the report by Alexander Borisovich, you can also take up a job, prepare for the vote. And, colleagues, please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Food Safety and Hygiene Act (No. 2845) in second reading and in general. It's a Euro-Integration Act, so I ask everyone to vote carefully and please support 2845 in second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:04:50]] For-187 I've been told everyone's backing up. Let me show you through the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 88, "National Front" – 42, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 19, Radical Party – 5, "Fatherhood" – 9, "will of the people" – 3, "Resurrection" – 7. Colleagues, I'll be right back. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, and I'll put you back in. Colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and I emphasize that every week on the Conciliation Council, we emphasize that we are not implementing a plan for legislation on Euro-Inclusion. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Let's wait until the MPs come in, Jonah, one minute. Please, from the rostrum. Colleagues, come into the hall. There's only a committee of European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to support this bill for a very long time worked on it, it is one of our obligations under the Association Agreement and so is this. I mean, it's very important, and so is our agriculture. I'd like to ask if we had a joint committee. Our Euro-Integration Committee with the Agrarian Policy Committee, and that's why we've been working on it for a long time, we've given it a lot of time. I ask you all to concentrate and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u47	So, colleagues, I gave the floor because under the Rules, the head of the Committee on Euro-Integration has the right to speak when there is a review of the law relating to Euro-Integration. This is not a faction discussion, it is the Rules that provide for the right to speak to a representative of the Committee on European Integration. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back. I ask for maximum mobility, and I ask in those laws where our obligations to European partners go, to vote in a very responsible manner. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, and I'm proposing to go back to the draft Food Safety and Hygiene Act (No. 2845). Please vote and please support. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. I see they're entering the hall. And there are colleagues in the back, invite them to the cards. So take up your jobs. You're ready, aren't you? I propose to return to the draft Feed Safety and Hygiene Act (2845). Please vote, please support the Euro-Integration Law. Please vote, fellow Members, carefully, each vote, and we shall vote in a disciplinary manner. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:08:50]] For 234 We're back. And now I'm becoming the draft of Law 2845 in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:09:14]] For 218. Next proposal: the Committee on Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u48	How many times can it be? Colleagues, discussion is over. My colleagues, I'm sorry, the discussion is over. There's a vote coming. Don't agitate me. Agitate those who don't vote. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back again. The discussion is over. I gave the head of the Committee on European Integration, based solely on that regulatory norm, that this is the right of the Committee on European Integration. Discussion's over, colleagues. So once again, I propose to go back to the draft Food Safety and Hygiene Act (2845). Please vote for the return. If there are no votes, we'll return to the committee for work. Please vote. Please be supportive. In return, please vote. [[17:10:21]] For 241 And I'm putting draft Law 2845 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Every voice matters. Careful! Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:10:46]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, the next law is also Euro-integration. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act. There's only a few left-handers here too, so I'm asking you to stay put. Moreover, it is a law that will represent the great reformer in the parliament of Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich. We're going to draft Law 4738-d on public procurement. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuku Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Please report. Please be supportive. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u49	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Bill 4738d, second reading, is being submitted to your consideration. I want to inform you that there were 43 amendments to this bill at the second reading stage, 26 of them counted, 18 were rejected, and the bill was balanced, and we wanted to accept it very much. The point is that we now have all the public finances. There is no monitoring, and we are invited by this bill to hand over the function of monitoring for public finances to the State Audit Service. The mechanism laid down in the bill is very balanced, European. This will also allow the Parliament, which exercises control, to gain access to information, then to initiate a practice of monitoring the warning of all abuses in the area of public finances. And it's impossible for such a large part of the government budget to be about 30 percent that are going to the public finance sector so that no one can control the loss of these funds. So I ask you to support this bill in the Committee's second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u50	Thank you. So let's go to the right. Here's just a few of the slopes. So I'm asking everyone to be there, and I'm going to read out, as always, the adjustments that are rejected. One-a-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 14th. He insists. Please, Gusak, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u51	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, first of all I ask you to place on confirmation number 11, which is counted by the committee. According to this law, the first reading made a decision that the duration of the monitoring could not exceed 15 days. It is now suggested that this term may be extended by the decision of the service manager for 10 days. Please place this amendment on confirmation and do not confirm it. Why, I'll explain later in my speeches on the following issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u52	Andrew Volodymyrovich, what position will your authority be?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u53	We're giving you the right to ten days, a distinguished national MP. And we've taken into account the amendment made by Kocheljeva so that within 10 days we'll have the right to continue. I don't understand. You didn't come to us, and you didn't come to the committee to have us look at another term.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u54	So, Andrew Volodymyrovich, do you ask the room to support the amendment, confirm 11th?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u55	I'm asking the 11th amendment of the people's deputies to take into account. Just like the committee did. And if National Deputy Gusak wants it, well, to crash and remove the bill from the body, I ask the House to support amendment 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u56	So, colleagues, I emphasize. It's on the 11th amendment. Now, Andrew Volodymyrovich, speak up, I'll give you time. Colleagues, it needs to be confirmed, the amendment of the Cochely, so we need to take up jobs. And if you support the committee, it needs to be confirmed. That's why I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. There is a debate during the vote, and now there will be an important vote. So the committee's asking her to confirm it. For those who support the committee, please vote positively. I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment of the 11th National Deputy of Kocheljeva. And the committee's asking her to confirm it. And that's why I'm asking all the supporters of the law, the committee, and Ivanchuk himself to vote in favour. I'd like your support, colleagues. Don't leave the hall. Please vote and support. Please vote, please support. [[17:16:18]] For-160. 160, it's not over. So let's move on to the revisions. 14th. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Gusak, 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman of the committee, I have submitted 11 rights to this bill and I would like to explain the general logic of all these rights. First. Corruption is a very big problem for Ukraine, especially in government procurement. Every year, Ukrainians lose tens of thousands and perhaps hundreds of billions of dollars. The bill proposes to give wide powers to monitor and verify the purchases of a new organization, the State Audit Service. My rights are designed to make the bill more balanced, i.e. to the State Audit Service. And by the way, these powers she's given, they duplicate the powers of other government authorities. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote and support it. And then I'll continue to explain the logic in the next direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u58	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u59	Dear Mr. Head! Dear People's Deputy Gusak! You are asking for your amendment if there is no public conclusion that there are no violations. We rejected it because the law suggests that the findings should be made public, and if this does not happen, the officials should be responsible. That's why we didn't count it. We think that the body of the law is better equipped with this non-publishment procedure. Thank you. Amendment 14 was not counted by the committee, and I explained why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u60	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 14. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote, please. It's a committee against it. [[17:18:31]] For-64 The decision is not taken. And we're moving on to the next one. So 17th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 21st. Don't insist. 22nd. Don't insist. 25th. Don't insist. 33rd, Goose. He insists. Please turn on the microphone. 33rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u61	Andry Volodymyrovich, back to the previous discussion. It would be very good, really, if our country were to be governed by laws, and then I wouldn't be proposing this mechanism. But for example, we don't have the head of the National Bank for seven months, and the President has to run for office. But he's not wearing it. Similarly, we will have a situation when the monitoring is announced and the conclusion is not confirmed and the situation will hang, and the State Audit Service will wait for what it is offered and so on. This should not be the case, for at this time the purchase will not take place. That's why I'm also asking you to put this amendment to the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u62	I just want to point out that there are now two Andrija Volodymyrovich here, and you, on your way, point out the address you are referring to Andrija Volodymyrovich. And I think we can go to the vote. I put to the vote 33 amendments that are rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports this vote, please. [[17:20:20]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next. 34th. He insists. Please, Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u63	I'd like to continue. What are some of these situations? I'd like to give you an example of a situation that has now arisen with the port of Mariupul. There's a long way to go, and last year they went deep. This year NABU had a claim to this deepening, and this year it expressed its claims during the tender. As a result, you can't make a decision on an old tender. The new tender is not announced because the case is not finished, and because of this deepening, they simply do not do so, and the rainfall has been reduced. And while they're building the Kerchen Bridge and reducing ships that can pass to Mariupol, so to speak, from the mountain, we're reducing this sediment from below because of our own negligence. That's not the way it's supposed to be. And it's my job to make sure that this doesn't happen. Please also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u64	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 30. Was that a 5 or a 4? 35th was. 35th, right? 35. Amendment. The committee turned her down. Oh, it was 36, wasn't it? Explain. It was. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, what was the correction just now?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u65	35th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u66	35th, yes. I'm putting to the vote number 35, which is in favour, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[17:22:07]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The next amendment, call it what. Please turn on the microphone. Goose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u67	And I'd like to, but we're a little bit out of line here. I'd like to, because perhaps the corrections that Mrs. Kocheljeva has prepared, they're actually doing better in law. I'd like to place the number 30 of Kiral's deputies, which says they still have a purchase check, there's got to be an electronic declaration verification system. Frankly, it's nothing to do here, and so we don't have a register of electronic declarations working very well. So ask for confirmation number 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u68	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please. I understand that the committee supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u69	Amendment 30 of the Kiral People’s Deputy was taken into account in connection with what he proposes to ensure the interaction of the electronic purchasing system and the electronic declaration system. But if we are opposed to having subjects subject to mandatory declarations balanced by these two systems, we may not be able to count it, it is unscrupulous.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u70	So, colleagues, it's not a discussion, it's not a discussion. The committee. No offense. Okay. So I'm betting on confirmation, the committee is asking for this amendment to be supported. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm asking you to vote in favour of the 30 amendment. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:24:23]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. So we had 35 revisions. 37th, Goose. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u71	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, Head of Parliament! I've got five left, I'm asking you to give me two minutes, and then I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u72	Roger that. Turn on two minutes. You will name all five of them, and if necessary, each of them will be placed separately. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to point out that my amendments were designed to make this bill more balanced. Because now the State Audit Service will be given wide powers to verify the purchase. And the remedies that we proposed would have to be made so that the State Audit Service would purchase the monitors in order to defeat corruption, not to lead it. And so that they won't be able to open cases again, open monitoring, and then wait indefinitely for what they're offered. Because, unfortunately, that's how we often have control organs, and the problem is that as long as there's no decision on the old tender, nothing is done, but the new tender is not announced, and that's why there's no purchase. And if there is no purchase, medicine, or vaccine, Ukrainians get sick and die. Unfortunately, these amendments that we have prepared have not been counted, so the faction will not vote for this bill in the second reading. But in order to save time, the rest of my licenses, because they're not supported, you can't put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u74	Thank you very much. Colleagues, that's how we ended the discussion. I ask all the deputies to enter the hall, prepare for the vote, and I ask the heads of the factions to mobilize as many deputies as possible. Now, before I conclude, I'd like to invite Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u75	Dear Mr. Head, in my speech, I would like to address the distinguished National Deputy Gusak. Your revisions are editorial, you want the words "public procurement" (34th, 35th, 36th, 39th, 40th) you want to replace the words "public procurement." This will not allow the state to control those purchases that were prior to the adoption of the Public Procurement Act. So it's formally such an editorial amendment, and the committee didn't take your amendments into account. And I very much ask you, and your opposition block faction, to support this bill in the second reading, so that the state has a mechanism for monitoring public finances. Because it's a very large part of Ukraine's state budget and they have to be controlled. I very much ask all factions and groups to support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u76	Thank you. The discussion is over. Everyone please take up their jobs. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Oh, you're here with a card. Colleagues, I would like to emphasize that every voice will now matter. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I would like to point out that this bill introduces the best global practices for State procurement control. When each tender is checked from the moment of the announcement to the actual signing of the contract. This is a very important law for the publicity and transparency of purchases. And I ask everyone to vote carefully during the adoption of this bill and to support it. Please come into the hall, take your jobs so we don't have to go back. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian Laws on Procurement Monitoring (No. 4738-d) proposed by a second-reading committee and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote and please support. Every voice, carefully, we vote, we support, colleagues. We'll support public procurement, please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:29:27]] For 203 I'll put you on the way back, please invite the deputies into the hall, please show by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 58, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 21, Radical Party – 15, "Fatherhood" – 5, "will of the people" – 2, "Party of Rebirth" – 1. Colleagues, the vast majority of factions support this bill, now we just have to invite MPs into the hall, and I'm very much asking the factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. I'll be back in a minute. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Ready? Colleagues, may I put it to a vote? I will now make a proposal for a return, and I urge you to be careful about voting, and to invite the deputies into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (4738-d). And I ask everyone to vote carefully and to support the return proposal. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, carefully, every voice. Vote, please. Please vote, please support. [[17:31:18]] For 217 I'll do it again. I'll wait, company. I'll wait, please. Please come into the hall. I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, these are laws of great importance. It is not just a matter of transparency, but it is also one of our obligations of European integration. This law was reported by Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, who is of course important. I ask everyone to vote carefully during the vote. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, mobilize as much as possible. I saw a few deputies come in, and invite you to the hall, colleagues. Also help me, Mrs. Anna, please. So you're ready, right? Colleagues, every voice will matter, please prepare. And I'm re-voting. So, colleagues, carefully, each voice, please prepare. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Public Procurement Act (4738-d). I ask you to vote carefully and please support me, colleagues. We vote carefully, each voice matters. Colleagues, I'm stopping the vote. We'll wait until Fishchinsky takes up his job, the hall waits. Eugene, Eugene, are you ready? Hall will wait, it's okay, we'll all wait. You're ready, aren't you? I ask you to vote in favour of returning to the draft Public Procurement Act. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. Please support, colleagues, we vote. Careful, every voice. [[17:33:51]] For 228 We're back. Please stay in the workplace. And I'm putting a draft of the Public Procurement Act (4738-d) on second reading and generally with technical legal rights, colleague. I'm asking you to support everyone's vote carefully. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote in a coordinated, responsible and united manner. Please support, vote, vote. [[17:34:31]] For 225 [[Noise Nodes]] What's going on, colleagues? What's going on? Colleagues, take up jobs. One vote, one vote. Colleagues, take up jobs. I see there was no Head. Everyone, please be seated. Guys, don't joke about it. Anton, please. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm voting back to the Public Procurement Act, 4738d, and I ask everyone to vote carefully. Please support the return to the law. Please vote. Colleagues, every voice. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. I ask you to vote responsibly. [[17:35:34]] For 221 Let's see who's dealing with this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, 225 votes! 225 votes. 225. So, colleagues, I'm re-commending to go back to the draft Public Procurement Act, 4738-d. I'm asking you not to joke about this, and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Vote. Careful, fellows! Every voice! Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Careful. Every voice! Vote. [[17:36:31]] For 228 We're back. Now I'm putting the Public Procurement Act in second reading and in general. And, colleagues, don't leave. I ask everyone now to vote responsibly. Please vote. Please be supportive. 4738-d on the basis and generally with technical legal rights. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful! Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:37:07]] For 226 The Public Procurement Act was passed. Colleagues, our next law. Don't move! The next law too. Colleagues, come on, pay attention! Yeah, we're not breaking up, we're working, colleagues. There's 20 minutes left. I'm asking everyone to stay put. Next is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on the creation and maintenance of the National Bank of Ukraine Credit Register and improving credit risk management processes for banks (7114-d). Colleagues, I'll put you to a vote. I'll make sure you don't leave the hall. I now place a rating vote to support this law so that we don't crash it. So 7114d, rating vote for support. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Yes, it's re-reading the second reading. [[17:38:23]] For-173 Colleagues aren't coming in, are they? Colleagues, attention, I, colleagues, now. The next bill, the next one we have is the law, the one we've already tried to transfer, is 6141 to promote foreign investment. The rating vote. Who supports the consideration of 6141, the next one on foreign investment? Ratings, ratings, ratings. Please vote in favour. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:39:28]] For 180. Colleagues, we have the next draft of the Law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. Remember, for the last time all the factions, all the factions supported it. But I'm still going to run the rating vote first. So in support of the next draft of Law 6120 on Physical Culture and Sports, I ask you to support the rating vote. Please vote, please support. We're voting for support, colleagues. We'll support culture and sports. [[17:40:09]] For-189 And the next one. Colleagues, pay attention! The next is 7338, this is a draft of the Law on Temporary Measures for the period of the ATO to restore opportunities for small and medium-sized business. It's supported by the entire hall. It's supported by all the factions in Parliament. And now I'm proposing that we move on to his consideration. And I'm proposing that we look at it in a simplified way. Please vote, please support. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote for the summary procedure. [[17:40:59]] For 197 And I invite you to the report by Efimov Maxim Viktorovich. Please. And prepare for Halasuk Victor's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, three years ago, a decision was taken to impose a moratorium on leases and fines on mortgages and mortgages, as well as to block the possibility of new contracts for banks in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. That decision was then timely and justified according to the situation in the eastern part of the country. There is now a problem of obtaining new mortgage loans, since mortgages are prohibited under the contracts described above, they are introduced throughout the territory. in all areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, including those areas where infrastructure and economic recovery is taking place in the area under control. We suggest that we open up the possibility of renegotiating contracts exclusively for entrepreneurs and only at their request. So banks won't be able to unilaterally change conditions and output previously concluded contracts from a moratorium. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u78	Thank you, Your Honor. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprises, Victor Halasyuk. The committee considered the bill and asked for three minutes of time to immediately read a consolidated position as amended by the committee. I ask all factions to listen carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u79	Dear colleagues of the National MPs, this Bill 7338 will in fact unlock the possibility of lending business in a controlled area in the ATO zone. This is a very important bill for Ukraine to restore entrepreneurial potential and for the normal functioning of the economy. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus noted the bill that we have been working on. Members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship have decided to amend the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation to restore the possibility of small and medium-sized business development using loan financing in the area of anti-terrorist operation (registration number 7338) to the Supreme Council and recommend that it be adopted in the first reading as a basis and as a whole as a law with technical and legal processing and with subsequent changes. Please record. First. Paragraph 2 of Section 1 and put it in the next line. "The positions of part one and part two of this article do not extend to the counting of pennies and (or) fines on the principal amount of the debt and liabilities of credit contracts and loans made with legal persons and natural persons - entrepreneurs whose location is the territory of the counter-terrorism operation, except for the population items according to the lists provided for in part four of Article 4 of this Act. If such contracts were made after 1 January 18th year or after 1 January 18th, the parties agreed to make changes to the length of the commitment and (or) the reduction in the interest rate of the fines." The other one. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 and put it in the next line. "The position of the part of the first article, in addition to the suspension of the effect of article 40 (part of the eviction of residents of residential buildings and premises transferred to a mortgage in respect of which there is a judicial decision to draw up such an object), does not extend to the immovable property of natural persons, legal persons, entities of small and medium-sized enterprises, whose location is the territory of the anti-terrorist operation, except for the settlements according to the lists provided for in the fourth part of article 4 of this Act, established in a mortgage with a view to ensuring compliance with the obligations made after 1 January 2018, or with contracts to which, after 1 January 2018, the parties agreed, changes were made to the part of the extension of the obligations and (or) the reduction in the amount of fines, to which, after 1 January 2018, the parties agreed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u80	Thank you. You've been on it for exactly three minutes. I ask you to sign up for discussion by the factions of this bill. Please, colleagues. Please, from the Radical Party faction, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u81	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to tell you a nice, important news for the people of Mariupul. Yesterday, on the initiative of the government's Radical Party team, a decision was made to approve the draft reconstruction of the Kamish-Zorya-Volnovah railway crossing. This is an extremely important decision that will enable the railway connection to Mariupul to be established, because as a result of the occupation of the part of Donbas, Mariupol actually turned out to be without full railway connection with Ukraine and with the "great land", figuratively speaking, and primarily Ukraine itself suffers from it. Because, for example, the capacity of freight through the Kamish-Zorya-Volnovah railway crossing is 20 pairs per day, and as a result, metallurgical and other Mariupol enterprises were unable to obtain raw materials, export manufactured products, so perform external economic contracts and bring currency to Ukraine. The government's decision, which the Radical Party team has achieved, to reconstruct the railway transition, which costs billions of dollars, will enable double the capacity, freight transport with Mariupol. So we're going to be able to provide stable businesses in Mariupol, jobs for people in Mariupol, increased expertise, currency in Ukraine, and more taxes will be paid to the local government budgets. This is an example of how to protect Ukraine’s national interests, Ukrainian jobs, such as the people of Mariupol and Donbas, the ability to strengthen the economy, and the stable work of businesses. With the coming New Year's Eve, dear mariopolitans! Stable work, wages, peace and faith in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u82	Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Victor Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, at the time, a simple and popular decision seemed to have been made in this room, credits had been taken and credits could not be paid. What is the reaction of the banks to this decision? So obviously, they stop issuing loans. Did you expect another reaction? Imagine being offered credit, and at the same time, the law provides for the possibility of default. Now I'm going to try to find a solution to this situation. Loans are old and new. So if loans are issued from the first number, they have standard procedures. It won't change anything. Banks won't give, banks won't give, because they've written once and they've written another. If we want to solve the problem of lending in areas where war is going on, we have to cancel that basic rule of law. I understand the problems that many borrowers face, but they have to deal with in an individual way with the bank and the creditor. And the adoption of this law will not solve anything. Neither will credit be given, nor will it be issued.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u84	Please welcome Alexander Kugel of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u85	Dear colleagues! Dear Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik! I want to remind you, it's a world norm that when a war is either an ATO or an earthquake or something else, it's a decision about force majeure, and people who lose their homes but take loans and build businesses. They have the opportunity to write this money down. We've adopted the law of faithfulness, only where the war is going, can't now be the person who left everything and left, and now begins from scratch to answer for the loans that the Russians bombed. This bill gives a completely different one, says, where there is no war, where we have liberated areas where life began, where people started business, banks want to lend. But they want the rule to be written that in this area where there is no war, they will have the general standard that exists today in the country for the repayment of loans. And it's very important to revive the economy of those zones that have been through a very difficult situation with this war. I very much ask all MPs to take responsibility and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u86	Please, the People's Deputies of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u87	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! First of all, no write-off of credit in this bill or in the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation is involved. This is about the use of foam and fines. So banks both accounted for interest on loans both for enterprises that are in controlled and for enterprises that are in uncontrollable territory. It's not about cheating. What is involved in this bill? This bill deals with the possibility of not applying the moratorium, the necessary action that we have adopted correctly, to those credit agreements that will be made since 01.01.2018. Victor Mikhailovich, with all due respect to you, but the adoption of this bill will be corrected. And, indeed, if this hall, and this vote, is going to be a lakh paper of attitude towards Donbas enterprises, the attitude towards his desire to restore his economic potential, this situation will fix it. Because there are banks that have a credit resource that are willing to lend, but because of the action of the standard, they can't do that. Because this creates an enabling environment for not very good recipients of the selected costs to receive the specified costs. Since a moratorium on pennies and fines is in place, this bill will unlock credit and restore the economic growth of Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u88	Thank you. Last speech, please, Mr. Shahov. National MP Shahov of the will of the people. And I'm sorry, and I can see what else Pisarenko wants from Rebirth. Not all of us have been able to sign up, so we have two more speeches, all of us who want to join the discussion. Please, Mr. Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u89	Luganshina, 114th District, Sergey Shahov. Dear colleagues, I call for justice, this is a very important bill. I call on all factions to support Lugansk, Donetskin, Donbas, which is peaceful today and should be developed on an equal footing with the whole country. Small and medium-sized businesses need to develop. The investor is responsible for entering the Luhansk, Donetsk regions, and is not afraid that they will be given credit today, nor should he put Ukraine on the second level. Dear colleagues, all factions, please vote and support peaceful Donbas today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. I'll give you a closing statement and in two or three minutes, the vote will take place. That's why I'm asking all the people's deputies to come into the hall. And I'm asking the factions to maximize their ability to mobilize a special warehouse. This is the closing act, from the Rebirth Party, Valérie Pisarenko, two minutes, please. And come into the hall, colleagues, in two minutes of the vote. Please. Mr. Valerius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to say that we will support such a bill, and I also want to point out that there are even more initiatives to support the people who are still in a difficult situation in Luhanskina and Donetskina. Besides, we talked. We're talking about the need to support those people who went out for training a few years ago or to live here, and we also need to support them in securing rights. I'm talking about students who can't sign up automatically after graduation today because they're no longer prescribed in hostels and they're not going back. We need to settle enough questions, and I hope that after the winter break we will return not only to this issue but to others. Moreover, Your Honor, we passed Law 6141 through the rating vote. Maybe we'll go back to it because it's one of the important bills that will help attract investment in Ukraine today. And I see that if we have 226, maybe this bill is going to be able to be put to the vote again today and walk on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m1.u92	Mr. Valérie, don't put him at risk. I held a rating vote, and there was too many votes, and there's only three minutes left before the end of the day. Let's get the most out of here. Take up all your jobs, colleagues. Please stop the discussions and take up jobs. Colleagues, who are in the beds? Let us conclude today with a positive vote that will unite the hall. Please, are you ready? You're ready, aren't you? Let's go to the vote. The discussion is over, and I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of ATOs on Restoration of Small and Medium Business Opportunities, using loan financing in the ATO area as a basis and as a whole, as a result of the transcript that was presented by the head of the Halasyuk Professional Committee with technical and legal remedies. Please vote, please support 7338 as a whole. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Carefully, each voice matters. Please vote. Vote, please. Vote. [[17:57:36]] For 242 The law is passed. Colleagues, attention, attention! Now, at the request of the faction, I'm only going to put the day-to-day draft of Law 6675 back in order. This will only allow the committee to consider it, colleagues. This vote, 6675, amends the Tax Code to ensure public disclosure of funding. Just getting into the agenda of the day session so the committee can look into it. We're not going to look at it, we're just going to put it in the order of the day session. Please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:58:31]] For 133 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, that's how we went through the order of the day uneasy today, but we've opened the possibility today to sign the budget, to sign the Tax Code, we've adopted a number of important reform laws. Sadly, though, time is running out and we will not be able to pass a number of important laws. Tomorrow, I remind you, we have a work day. At ten o'clock in the morning, I'll be waiting for everyone in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue our work. And now, according to the Rules, I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, colleagues. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
