ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Prepared? Can we have the registration? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:06:52]] 372 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, we don't have half an hour to discuss today, so we're going straight to the agenda. I would very much like to ask the people's deputies to work effectively and effectively today, and we have a very busy agenda. We haven't been able to go through a number of drafts on Tuesday, and today logic is that the key block that stands in the order of the day is the block of energy. But we also have to adopt the laws of the Committee of Ecology, because on April 26, when the anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy comes, it is important for us to have the laws that apply to victims in the Chernobyl AES. So I urge everyone to do a very responsible and effective job. The first issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter V of the Ukrainian Act on State Prizes for the Assignment of the Name Hero of Ukraine. You remember, we discussed this law. We put it in the order of the day session. We need him so that we can name the Hero of Ukraine as the Hero of the Heavenly 100th. So, colleagues, I'm going to make the first suggestion that we take it up with a reduced procedure. I ask once again to look closely at the content of this law and ask that we all support its consideration of the reduced procedure. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you to vote on this issue for a reduced procedure. There will be a vote now, please take your seats. And I'm going to vote on the proposal for draft Law 6174 to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. I think it'll be a joint decision. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:09:59]] For 115 I'll do it again. Now I'm going to put it again, not everyone has read the bill, not everyone has understood, obviously, the importance of the bill and its importance, yes. Colleagues, please mobilize everyone. Now I'm going to re-supply for a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to mobilize. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal that the draft Act amending Chapter V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes on the Assignment of the Title Hero of Ukraine (6174) be considered in the summary procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please be careful: this is about the fallen Hero of Heaven. And stop the political discussions at that time, and please support this proposal. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote for summary procedure 6174. Please be supportive. [[10:11:57]] For-154 154-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the Dignity Revolution is an example of the victories, virtues and brilliant victories of the Ukrainian people, many of them in the centuries - old history of Ukraine. However, this page of our history has both a great and a tragic character. It was the Dignity Revolution that became one of the first sign battles in the war for Ukraine’s independence. Among its participants were representatives of various countries, ethnic groups, religions, Eastern and Westerners, North and South, who spoke Ukrainian, Russian, Belarusian, Polish, and other languages. To this day, however, the State has not given due respect to the marking of these representatives of foreign nations who have given their lives, defending the ideals of democracy and defending the European future of Ukraine, with a higher degree of recognition of Ukraine. First of all, this is due to the fact that there is a legislative restriction on the award of such a given reward, a reward for the citizens of Ukraine alone. With a view to correcting the situation, the President of Ukraine has put forward a draft bill on the amendment of Chapter V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Awards for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine (registration No. 6174). The project proposes that the name Hero of Ukraine may be assigned as an exception to a posthumously foreigner rewarded by the Order of Heavenly Hundreds for performing an outstanding heroic act involving the promotion of the constitutional principles of democracy, human rights and freedoms during the Revolution of Dignity. In view of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u4	In view of the above, please support the Ukrainian law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u5	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule, Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovic. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 5 April, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter V of the Act on Ukraine's National Awards for the Assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, and I note the following: the question of assigning the name Hero of Ukraine to foreigners, stateless persons for performing the heroic act during the Dignity Revolution has already been discussed in committee meetings. Yes, the committee considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes (as regards the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to non-citizens of Ukraine), registration number 1421, and was proposed to accept it as a basis. The bill on honoring heroism and self - sacrifice of the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds of Foreigners, stateless persons (register number 3432-1), recommended by the committee to return to work. Regarding the bill that is being discussed today, I would like to point out that the Committee on Veterans, the participants in the fighting, in turn, noted that the National Deputies of the Committee support the idea proposed by the President, but believe that the term Hero of Ukraine may be attributed to foreigners and non-citizens not only for the heroic act committed during the Dignity Revolution, but in other cases to the exceptional courage, heroism in defending Ukraine's interests, particularly in protecting its territorial integrity. The main scientific and scientific management also had a number of observations. Having fully considered the issue, taking into account the opinion of the Committee on Veterans, after considering the draft bill submitted by the President, the result of the first reading was to accept it as a basis and as a whole, by introducing in the proposed bill a rule in the next edition. The name Hero of Ukraine may be assigned as an exception to a posthumously foreigner and a stateless person for performing a significant heroic act in defending and defending Ukraine’s interests. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u7	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Rybczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Melnichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u9	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The People's Will Group will have to support this bill. But I want to say one thing, take only one unit in which I fought, we have at least three people who are foreigners, who also deserve high titles to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity, but they can't even get to become Ukrainian citizens right now. And that's our trouble. There is, for example, a hero who was killed in the Donbas battalion. He was and is now buried here, not far from us, I was at his funeral. And these people aren't marked. Therefore, it is imperative that those heroes who have defended Ukraine who will protect it be marked with the highest national rewards. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u10	Heroic glory! From the Radical Party of Linko. Skuratovsky gives Link's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u11	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! I think, finally, in the third year after the revolution, we will honor the memory of the great Heroes of the Celestial 100 and will be able to do the same for other heroes who were at war with Russia. There's a lot of foreign heroes like that. Kirilo Haynes with an invitation to Germany from St. Mary's. He was a citizen of Russia. But before he died, he wrote a statement that he wanted to be a citizen of Ukraine. But they didn't have time to give him citizenship. And that's why he has no rewards or citizenship, but that's what we have to fix. And we have a situation where we have a lot of foreigners who are protecting the country and still unable to obtain citizenship. Many of them are Russians who cannot return to Russia where they will be persecuted. And that's why they have to give up their citizenship. And while they're alive, while they're here protecting our Ukraine, they need to give rights, not mention only when they're dead. And heroes like Isa Munaev of the Dudjava battalion, who died protecting Ukraine, we must remember, and we must also reward. So I don't think anyone will have any objection, and everyone will unanimously support this bill, and a bill that would allow the granting of citizenship to foreigners who are protecting our country to simplify this procedure. And again to the President, we've repeatedly asked those people who are protecting our country, who are being persecuted in their former homeland for protecting the country so that they can have protection here in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u12	Thank you. From Self-Help, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u13	Self-help supports this decision. But let's tell the whole truth. This law was to be passed as soon as we were chosen. And such a law was registered in December 2014, particularly at the request of the family of Michael Žiznevsky, Hanna Romanov. And this law for two years and four months was uncontested, it was put to the vote of the Supreme Council 18 times, and it was never put to two speakers of Parliament for approval. The other one. By adopting this law, we must be aware that neither the killer of Michael nor the murderer of the two other heroes of the Heavenly 100th of Georgia nor the murderers of Ukrainian citizens are punished. What's more, while we're sitting with you, the judges who have been left behind since the same times they've been throwing people away, they're now quietly releasing those suspects suspected of mass murder who were able to be arrested by the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs with the help of the Ukrainian Security Service. Therefore, by approving this decision, we must at the same time shoulder our responsibility to bear responsibility for the failure of the Attorney General’s Office, for the failure of the courts, which has not resulted in the execution of any of the executioners of the Celestial 100. And this is Parliament's responsibility no less than that of the Attorney-General or of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u14	Colleagues, we're about to make our final statement from Peter Dustenk's Block, and then we're going to the vote. That's why I'm asking you to mobilize the MPs as much as possible. And I ask the secretariat to report that in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Jurik Taras Zinovyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Kudlainka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u16	The faction of the Peter Prashenko Party clearly supports this bill. These changes will allow us to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to the person who gave her life for our state, even though she was not Ukrainian for her passport. It's about Michael Žiznevsky's Belarusian. It is known that it is not possible to give the name Hero of Ukraine a name without Ukrainian citizenship. However, during the events of the Dignity Revolutions, side by side with our fellow countrymen stood by brothers from other states, upholding the principles of the Constitution of Ukraine, protecting the rights and freedoms of each and every one of us. Michael paid the highest price for this, and this sacrifice of Ukraine must be remembered, just as every Celestial 100 Hero must go into history as the Hero of Ukraine. Members of the factions of the Party of Peter Prashenko ask for the unification of colleagues in this decision and for the support of Bill 6174. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u17	Thank you. Final word, who? Hairy, isn't it? Give me a minute. Vlasenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Fatherland faction will no doubt support this law. But we believe that for families who died the greatest mark, the greatest honor and the greatest memory of these boys who gave their lives for Ukraine, for the European choice of Ukraine, it would be to hold those who committed their murder, who committed mass killings during the Dignity Revolution. Sadly, this has not really taken place today. And so far there's no way that's going to happen. So, of course, we can vote on 10 more laws, honor the memory, but we will not replace our work today with the completely unqualified, inequitable and inequitable work of law enforcement agencies, including the detection of such resonant and sensitive crimes as crimes in Maydan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u19	Thank you. I'm asking Irina Lucenko now to formulate, actually, as far as I know, a certain amendment from the committee, I'm asking you to define how we should vote. It was announced. Once again, Irina Lucenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that this bill, as proposed by the Head of State, refers to aliens rewarded by the Order of the Hero of Heaven, which was the philosophy of this project. In view of the above, I ask her to put her to the vote in such an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u21	I mean, I should announce with the amendment of the committee, or actually, as it is, Mrs. Irina. Turn the microphone back on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! The philosophy of the law predicted the project: it is proposed that the name Hero of Ukraine may be assigned as an exception, posthumously, to a foreigner rewarded by the Order of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100 for performing a remarkable heroic act, is meant to be an exception to the foreigner. So I would like to put the head of state to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u23	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to decision-making and I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian State Prize Act on the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine (number 6174) and on the proposal of the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and support 6174 as a whole. Vote, colleagues, please. [[10:27:46]] For 235 The law is passed. The next draft law in the order of the day 5713, 5713-1 is the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, with regard to the granting to family members of the deceased. And I also ask you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. [[10:28:37]] For-187 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kunicina Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u24	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, honourable deputies! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this law, Alexander Trelyakov, Maxim Burbak, Zagoriya, Gabrieluk, Shuhevich, Ribczynski, for the fact that this law is prepared for the request of veterans of Afghanistan, and this bill proposes to amend the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantee of Their Social Protection, and also to grant families of the deceased the right to benefits paid for the use of housing and accommodation services without taking into account the average monthly total income. Three thousand and 300 sons of Ukraine died in Afghanistan, half of mothers and parents already died. You know that 3,000 Afghans were on Maidan, about 200 were killed on Donbas, thousands are fighting, hundreds are wounded, and the commander of the eighth hundredth Oleg Mihnuk was named Hero of Ukraine posthumously. So I'm asking all the factions to support this law, that's what veterans are waiting for, that's what the families of the dead are waiting for, and I think the Hall will support this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u25	Thank you. The report invites the Ukrainian National Deputy, Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! I don't think any of you will deny that our veterans of the Great Homeland War, the veterans of Afghanistan and, in general, the seniors deserve not only gratitude and respect, which is not enough today, but also decent life and adequate social support. And this huge social injustice, which has in the last three years been the social protection and support of the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the veterans of Afghanistan, including the disabled, has been cut short. During this period, in the face of a wild increase in prices for products, for medicines, for utilities, the government had a cynical reduction in social benefits, and much reduced social assistance. In violation of the Constitution and all human morality since 2014, the most socially unprotected VAV veterans, labour veterans, war children, disabled people have taken away a large proportion of legal social guarantees and benefits: non-medical security, travel, telephone, sanatorium services, etc. And for the participants in the Great Homeland War and the citizens who have special merit before the Father, they have set a deeply unjust standard that they cannot afford to receive deserved social benefits. To that end, we are introducing a draft law that proposes to abolish the provision of individual types of benefits depending on the level of family income. And I think that the adoption of this bill will help at least partially today to establish social justice in relation to the veterans of the Great National War and Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u27	Thank you. The co-rapporteur is invited to attend the meeting of the committee of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! Our committee considered Bill 5713 and 5713-1 at its meeting on February 22, 2017. Bill 5713 was developed following a joint meeting between the veterans of Afghanistan and me and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Minister of Social Policy. This law proposes that families of the dead, including Afghan soldiers, be granted the right to housing benefits and community services, without taking into account the income of the family. Today, families of dead members of the Dignity Revolution and the ATO have the right to do so. His standards for families of lost veterans are more moral than material. Bill 5713-1 — an alternative gives the right to benefits for housing and utilities without taking into account the family’s income and offers to all participants in the war and individuals who have special merit before the Father. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to adopt both bills as a basis. But the committee shares the ideas of bill 5713-1 on strengthening the social protection of all participants in the war, but it believes that it needs to be returned after an analysis of the implementation of the state budget. The committee is bringing it to the Supreme Council. Ask the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 5713 as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u29	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Please, Kirichenko. He's handing it over to Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u30	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. You don't want to say something bad on a clean Thursday, but you have to be honest. In more than 20 years of independence, ungodly acts have been made for those who need special public attention, especially social protection, for war veterans in Afghanistan, including injustices that are being corrected by this law, which undoubtedly needs to be supported by injustice against the Chernobylites. The bill is not constantly postponed, and the bill is not subject to consideration. Law 4222, Oleg Layashka, Igor Mosiyczuk, other respected colleagues, and I also have protection to pay back the benefits to the niggers. Why is this not done? Next. It's about Afghan veterans. Dear colleagues, when you vote now, remember a very important moment. Many of those brave people who have survived the war in Afghanistan are still fighting for Ukraine. They teach young men how to fight properly, who went heroically to the front without sniffing the dust. Many of them, like the Hero of Ukraine Oleg Mychnuk, did not return from that front. And please support. Next. It is now in this room that there is a meeting of signatures to support the election of a war veteran in Afghanistan and a veteran of this war, a volunteer, a well-known lawyer named Andriy Mamaliga as an ombudsman candidate. We now see that it was set up by Lavrinovich and Ljovcken in the days of Yanukovitch Valery Lutkowska because of the corrupt actions of today's government, which, contrary to the law, remains an ombudsman. And as it protects human rights, we remember how she kept quiet during Midan, during the Dignity Revolution, when the rivers of blood were shed at the Institute, where her office, and she was silent. Anyone who is willing to support a volunteer, a lawyer, an Afghan man named Andrija Mamaligu, please sign for me. Remember those who fight for us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u31	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna Semenha, please. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u32	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. In general, by supporting the idea, any idea of strengthening guarantees for the defenders of the country and their families, I want to draw your attention, colleagues, to a number of circumstances that call into question the economic and social relevance of the two bills. These legislative initiatives, unfortunately too large, do not have a meaningful fulfillment. In particular, in part of the changes that apply to family members and wargoers, the average income for family members today is about 2,000 dollars, and the pension for wargoers amounts to 1,000,862 dollars. That is, the vast majority of citizens whose bills are designed to provide benefits without accounting for their income are now using the benefits because their income is lower than the threshold set of 2,000,240 dollars. In addition, the rest of the citizens in the listed categories are still receiving subsidies provided by the State. In part of the changes that apply to individuals who have special merit before the Fatherland, proposed by the alternative bill, the pension rate of these categories today amounts to about 14,000 dollars. There is therefore doubt as to whether the above benefits should be granted to the citizens concerned without taking into account the degree of their income. Next. The Self-Help faction basically opposes the granting of any benefit solely by belonging to a certain category or by having a certain status without assessing the needs of the individual. The same is true of the world’s practice of providing state social assistance. The absence of an adequate indicator system does not allow the real quality of the living standards of different social types of the population to be determined and structurally ranked. It is easier: The State should only help those who really need it. Therefore, in view of this, the Self-Help faction will not support any legislative initiatives and call for only those laws in the social sphere that are truly called upon to help those who need to do so and not to consider populist laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u34	I'm continuing with these Mr. Romanes about not being able to provide social support to anyone, despite their material condition. With your permission, I will read a few sentences of conclusion from the Chief Scientific Expert: "In addition to this funding, the aid provided for in the current legislation of Ukraine will require substantial funds from the state budget of Ukraine, although the quality of such social support will cause substantial complaints. In addition, control over the targeted use of the allocated funds is rather complex and less effective." It's about us deceiving our citizens for many years, giving pseudo-spills and pseudo-guarantees. Let us be honest with ourselves. Let's be honest with those citizens who actually need that kind of help, and we're going to give that kind of help that we can give, not lie to our own citizens. So I very much ask everyone to read this bill carefully, to read the comments made in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific Expert and to make an informed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u36	Good day, Ukrainian people, good day, distinguished colleagues, presiding officer. There was a meeting yesterday between the groups, the factions with the mothers of our fighters who had been captured and who had disappeared. This bill may partially cover the painful problems that arose yesterday. At least to support these families materially and morally. But I think what we're taking here isn't working, because I've been dealing with these problems myself, my brothers' problems. These benefits are not paid because the budget does not have the right funds. We have, if we accept the bills, we have to explore them and go with them all the way to the end recipient. The problem is, too, that the boys who are now in captivity are missing, they are not getting any news, their families are getting nothing because the commanders, the bosses, and all the others are simple. provide lists of those who are not missing, and those who have voluntarily left the military. And that's the problem. So yesterday a decision was made to create an interfractional parliamentary union to help mothers and families with the data listed above. I ask in every group, in every faction, to assign really those people who will work with it to give themselves up with the soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u37	Colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes. I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall and prepare for the decision. It's been a minute since Fatherland. No, come on, first, a minute from the Opposition Block and the closing will be from the Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Here some colleagues offer to cancel the benefits. Yes, you can cancel. But for this to happen today, we need to raise pensions and set standards for European social protection. Today, we have a lot of discussions about the lack of funds. But unfortunately, we don't have the money for just pensioners, W.V. veterans, Chernobyls, Afghans, disabled people. There's no money for these people. For example, for the financing of the parties, there are costs for them. There are funds for the financing of palaces, and there are funds for the financing of new ministries and offices. Dear colleagues! We don't have the right to do that. Or we solve issues comprehensively, we raise pensions, we set constitutional standards for social protection. Or.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u39	Thank you. And a minute, Igor Lucenka. And we're going, yeah, to the head of the committee, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of Bill 5713. But when it comes to the subject of veterans, we cannot help but mention the most painful and pressing problem of the day. This is the existence of pseudo-warrant organizations that are currently receiving tens of millions of dollars from the budget. Who are controlled by Moscow, who have no veterans of World War II, and no ATO veterans in their composition. A group of national MPs, a group of publicists are now fighting to stop this shameful practice, which will discredit the very notion of a veteran in our country. We asked the Minister of Social Policy of Reva, Groysman himself, the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Science, to use all the legal mechanisms they could use, the legal means to stop this practice, which was simply shocking to the public. These pseudos were set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u41	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u42	We have to stop funding the road flushes in the form of pseudo-warrant organizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u43	Thank you. And, colleagues, it's another minute before the committee head advises us how to vote. And I'd like everyone to take their jobs. In a minute, we'll be making decisions. Please take up jobs. Turn on Trelyakov Alexander's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u44	Please accept the bill as a basis and, in general, replace paragraph 7 with paragraph 9. That's what I'm saying under the stenogram. And what the Self-Help faction said would be better placed on the Committee on Veterans to work instead of demagogies. Not one representative is there, and they don't work at all with athorists or veterans, but they just say and say from the rostrum that they don't like everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. All right, lineup. Please give me one minute. We're taking up jobs, colleagues, not everyone's still in place. Please repeat, 1 minute, Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u46	Just now, the head of the committee has misled people in Ukraine. The Self-Help faction has always worked and worked on social laws and initiates them, but we don't have all the committees because we don't have as many people as you have committees. And that's why you don't have to mislead people and speculate on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u47	Colleagues, let's stop the political debate and move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to provide family members with lost benefits without taking into account the average monthly total income of the family at the suggestion of the Committee (5713) on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposal of a committee that was heard by the head of the committee under the transcript, with technical legal rights. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:48:03]] For 269 169 — yes. 269, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The law is passed. Not 300, 269. Next. Colleagues, we have a block and I'd like everyone's attention. We have two issues of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. One of these concerns the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, a colleague. There is only a request to include it in the order of the day session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we now have very important issues in the agenda. But since two factions have come forward. What factions? Self-help and Fatherland, right? Oleg! From two factions to call a break, but they're willing to replace it with a tribune. Let's quickly go that way. Please, three minutes, who's going to perform? Who will act? Victor Chumak, please, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, this is the Clean Thursday we want to make a very important statement. We would like to remind all of our colleagues, all of Ukraine’s politicians about the quality of political responsibility, of their responsibilities to the people of Ukraine when they went to the elections and the need for these responsibilities. Today, the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction, Freedom Group, representatives of the political party, representatives of the political party "Demal Alliance", representatives of the political party "Democratic Control", the "Civil Citizens" group, the civil movement "The Wave" want to make the following statement, the "Will" party wants to make the following statement. All the political parties that went to the polls promised to carry out political reform, in line with this political reform, the overwhelming draft laws that must be adopted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're talking about what we're asking the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the factions that go to most, to carry out their promises and to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft laws on the election of Ukrainian national MPs by a proportional system with open lists, all of which have been discussed for so long by 1068, 1068-1, 1068-2, the draft laws on the interim investigation commission for the removal of the President from the post in the order of impeachment (number 2278), the draft laws on temporary follow-up committees submitted by the political party "Fathers", the draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine (number 1776). Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! We strongly ask you to put all these laws before the Supreme Council not later than the next plenary week in May, otherwise we all retain the right to direct action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, please take your seats, are now important bills, because we, too, have promised to reform Parliament. And now I'm going to put forward a proposal for reform of Parliament so that we can put the agenda into order. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. And I'm going to put in an important proposal to cancel today's break from 12.00-12. 30. I ask everyone to mobilize and hope to demonstrate the desire to make Parliament's work more effective. Colleagues, therefore, are now proposed to put into order the daily draft of the Act amending article 54 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Colleagues, getting into the order of the day session so that we can look at it today before April 26th right now, this is our only chance. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for adoption of 5594. We'll look at it not now, later, but we need to put it in the order of the day session. Colleagues, please take your seats and vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session, and the decision-making process today is 5594. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[10:54:32]] For 269 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, draft Act amending Ukraine's laws on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 6256 and 6256-1. I want to remind you that five meetings were held by a working group of the Supreme Council working on the bill. Five meetings were the most active part of the factions in order for us to come to the implementation of this parliamentary reform rule. To emphasize, it was a unanimous decision to be made in the hall. The drafters are the heads of most factions, and when there are no heads, the representatives of those factions. All I'm asking today is for you to get into the agenda of the day session. Don't look at it today, just put it in the order of the day session. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs, Leonid, a member of the task force, please prepare for the vote now. And I ask you, in a week, we're going to have a joint session with the MEPs, so let's organize and support Parliament reform in a friendly way. I'll put the vote to 6256 and 6256-1 to the agenda. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Each voice has a weight, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We vote 6256 in the agenda of the day session. Vote, colleagues, please. [[10:56:07]] For 221 Five votes is not enough, I ask you to come into the hall, I'll put it again, I can put it again. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. Once again, these are our commitments that we have made in common with the decision we are implementing the reform of Parliament. And I am very responsible to all the national MPs to support them. Please, Mr. Igor, you are the first author of this bill, Igor Greene is, please. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking the factions to show us how they voted. And I, my colleagues, once again put and very much count on your support, yesterday it was demanded by other factions, and the will of the people, and I'm putting to the vote the day-to-day session of 6256 and 6256-1 parliamentary reform, only the inclusion of the day-to-day session. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, every voice matters, I'm asking you to vote, I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Vote 6256, 6256-1 of the agenda. Please support, we vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. [[10:57:34]] For 222 Four votes, I'll do it again. I see we haven't made it. I'll remind you, colleagues, I'll put three votes again, please. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll put it to the vote for the third time. I'm asking you to show me the factions again. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take the job, I'll put it to the vote again. I just don't understand. Six days from now, we're going to have a meeting with the MEPs. How will you look them in the eye as you explain such a vote, colleagues? I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm asking you to support me. Colleagues, I'm re-voting the day-to-day session 6256, 6256-1, except for the day-to-day session so the committee can look at it. Let me remind you, we've passed all the laws and we've put the agenda in order, it's just to give the committee a chance to look at it. I'm re-voting, please support the inclusion in the agenda. Please go to work! 6256, 6256-1 is a day-to-day session. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:59:33]] For 233 Andrey Volodymyrovich came back - it's okay. Decision taken, colleagues. Thanks for the support, it's just getting into the agenda. Now, colleagues, I suggest you cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. I ask you to unite around this proposal, this is an important moment to increase the efficiency of our work. I ask everyone to unite. I'm putting a head start on the proposal that the break from 12 to 12:30 be cancelled today, just today. I'll remind you, there's a bill, we'll consider it after the committee's decision. Today it is suggested that we cancel it today. Please unite, colleagues, and please support. I'm voting a motion to cancel the 12:00-12:30 break. And please, colleagues, vote and support. Vote, fellows! Today, just today. Please vote. Please be supportive. Just today, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support this proposal. Please vote. [[11:00:45]] For 197 I'll put it again, colleagues, if you don't. I'll put it again, colleagues. By factions, please show the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 88, "National Front" – 61, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 7, Radical Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 6, "will of the people" – 2, "Resurrection" – 1. I'm asking you again to cancel break 12.00 - 12.30. Just today, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Look at the agenda. In order for us to be able to review all the laws, please support this proposal. This will benefit all factions. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:01:48]] For 207 207. I'll put the third time. After that, I won't bet. I make all the suggestions when there's a requirement of a hall three times. Guys, I'll be right back. Don't bet, right? Okay. All right, colleagues. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. Next: Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Joint Production of Films and Cooperation in the Field of Cinematography between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel (0143). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:02:44]] For 209 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Culture of Ribaccak Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u50	Good afternoon, Andrey Volodymyrovich, good afternoon, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Joint Production of Films and Cooperation in the Field of Cinematography between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel. The agreement was signed on December 22, 2015 in the city of Jerusalem as part of a visit by the President of Ukraine to the State of Israel. The adoption of this bill will allow the agreement to take effect. This will contribute to bilateral cultural cooperation in the area of cinematography between Ukraine and State Israel. And this will also enable us to intensify mutual cooperation in the area of cinematography between Ukraine and the State of Israel, to engage foreign investment in the film industry, to increase the number of domestic film products, to improve the international image of Ukraine. In addition to producing films together, the agreement also provides for the expansion of cultural cooperation, such as the conduct of national movies, the development of basic and higher education, the exchange of experiences and experts, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to support this bill and open up new prospects for producing films in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u51	Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the People's Deputy, Hanna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u52	Dear Ukrainians, honourable national MPs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday considered a draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the ratification of the Agreement on joint production of films and cooperation in the field of cinema between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel and recommends that the Supreme Council accept this agreement as a basis and as a whole, ratify it. Why do we need this covenant? To provide a legal basis for further development, cooperation and joint film production between Ukraine and Israel on the principles of equality and mutual benefit in accordance with legislation and international agreements. It is very important for us that this agreement also helps us to improve the economic efficiency of the film, television, video and modern media industries. We also look forward to this covenant to strengthen our cooperation between Ukraine and Israel and elsewhere. In particular, we hope that in 2017 the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Israel will also strengthen Ukrainian exports, the state of the Ukrainian economy. This is important to secure after the agreement that took effect between Ukraine and the EU on free trade in 2016, following the ratification by the Ukrainian Parliament of the Agreement between Ukraine and Canada. And this is one of the important steps. And we also very much hope that the Agreement on Joint Film Production and Co-operation in Filmography will help us create those films that will enhance more historical truth. And one day, the Israeli Knesset recognizes the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. And this will be a historic decision, particularly on the part of the State of Israel and the parliamentarians, regarding the recognition of the Holocaust by a genocide organized by the Stalin regime. And that is exactly what will be the continuation of our bilateral relationship on the construction and respect of historical truth. This is of great importance to us, considering that we long ago recognized the Holocaust as genocide and celebrated Babin Jar, 75 years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u53	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Dear National Deputies! Please take part in the discussion. Please sign up. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy John Rybak of the Party "Peter Prashenko Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! We are very much, our convening has done a great deal over the last two years for the development of native cinematography. I urge everyone to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Joint Production of Films and Cooperation in the Field of Cinematography between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel. This law on ratification of the respective agreement will provide some incentive for cooperation between the country of Israel and Ukraine on film production. Let's support and vote for 0143. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u55	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Danchenk of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will support this bill and we ask the entire room to support it as well. As you know, we recently voted with you in favour of a comprehensive system law supporting cinematography, and this law on cooperation between. To create a film product between Ukraine and Israel, it will actually give impetus to development and Ukrainian cinematography, including those who work in this industry. That's why we support this bill and ask the House to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u58	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National MP John Krulk, the "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will certainly support this ratification, because it's important to work together to create movies that relate to stories that relate to the development of bilateral relationships. But at the time, taking advantage of the opportunity that we are now considering this very important issue, I would like to ask the President of Ukraine to have a bill signed as soon as possible, which Parliament approved a few weeks ago on the development of Ukrainian cinematography. This is what is needed today for Ukraine, for Ukrainians who create quality film clips. This law is expected to be signed by more than 80 films that are now being made at this time. And this year, I can actually make a record number of movies in Ukraine. So I would like to ask that this important bill, as well as the tax committee, be signed to review those bills that should unlock the financing of cinema in Ukraine. Let's certainly develop international cooperation in the field of cinematography, but at the same time support the national producer, the national film, and in this way shape the national patriotic education of Ukrainians, form and restore Ukrainian culture and develop what is needed to really make movies at the highest level in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Welcome to the words of the People's Deputy Nestor Schufrich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u61	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor. It's very interesting that this issue has sparked such a lively discussion, and that's a positive one. Of course, we must vote in favour of strengthening the relationship between the country of Israel and Ukraine in the field of cinematography. But let us be honest and honest about historical truth. I've heard the words "solin mode." Let's say that it was in Stalin that fascist Germany and the Nuremberg trial were destroyed one of the first charges against the leaders of Nazi Germany -- that was the destruction of the Jews in the concentration camps. So let's say the Soviet Union paid a huge price for winning and punishing fascist invaders, including the destruction of the Jews. And we need to remember that today. On the other hand, I hear complaints that we don't have time to work, that we today, uh-huh, have to work without a break. We suggest working from April 24th to April 28th and voting immediately on draft Decree 6331, where we can see if the Supreme Council wants to work for the Ukrainians, whether it wants to run for the monthly holidays, or whether it's impossible to say that it's impossible than it wants to work for the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u62	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. And then we go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We'll have a decision in a minute. Please take up your jobs. Please, Princess, one minute, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u63	Thank you. I want to thank my colleague Krulko of Fatherland for the meaningful performance. It is really important to sign the Act on Cinematography and the relevant committee of profile to consider other laws that will allow it to be put into effect. I urge everyone from the People's Front faction to support this bill. The main thing that it gives is that we signed the European Common Production Agreement. Israel is not part of Europe. By ratifying this agreement, we are opening the way to Ukrainian artists to the possibility of receiving funds from the State of Israel, from the Ministry of Culture of Israel to the participation of Ukrainian actors in Israeli films. So for us, it's actually support, first of all, not just cooperation with Israel, but also Ukrainian cinematographers. Thank you. People's Front will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u64	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Joint Production of Films and Cooperation in the Field of Cinematography between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel (number 0143) on the proposal of the Committee to accept it as a whole. Please vote, please support 0143 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:14:12]] For 271 271 – yes. The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. And let's move on to the next 0141 law. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation. I ask you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please. Please support the reduced procedure. [[11:14:47]] For 171 171. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Finance Minister Buza Yuri Bogdanovich. Mr. Yuri, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u65	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and present! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Taxation on Income Taxes and the Protocol thereto, done on 4 September 2013 in Kiev. The purpose of the draft law is to implement the internal State procedures necessary for the Convention and the Protocol to take effect in relations between the two countries. The purpose of the Convention is to avoid double taxation of the income of natural and legal persons occurring in the territories of both countries, both through the allocation of the right to tax certain types of income between Ukraine and Malta, depending on their origin and by taking into account the taxpayer’s tax obligations of one State the amount of taxes paid outside the territory of another State. Furthermore, the Convention is also designed to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination, create mechanisms for improving cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Malta by establishing mutual reconciliation procedures and ensuring the exchange of tax information. The Convention provides for tax rates that fully meet the requirements of the OECD Model Convention, namely: a dividend rate of 15 per cent or 5 per cent for dividends received by a company that owns at least 20 per cent of the capital of the company that pays both interest and royalty, a rate of 10 per cent. In accordance with article 9, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, this Convention and the Protocol are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u66	Thank you. I invite a fellow member of the Committee on European Integration of People's Deputies, Helen Masorin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on European Integration considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the Protocol thereto. In our view, the ratification of the Convention and the Protocol to it will help avoid double taxation of Ukrainian and Maltese operators who will be guaranteed that profits derived from entrepreneurial activities in another country and dividends, interest and royalty will not be subject to double taxation. The ratification of the protocol convention will also help to reduce mutual tax barriers to foreign investment and to prevent tax evasion. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration considers it appropriate to ratify the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes. This decision is also in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u68	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion, please hold two records to participate in the discussion. Welcome to the speech of National Deputy Tetjan Ostrikov of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Indeed, the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation is fully in line with the model convention of the organization of economic cooperation and development. And tax rates, there's really no zeros, there's generally accepted rates, like 5 and 15 dividend tax rates, 10 percent of the tax rate that's collected when you count the royalty or interest. But there are a few questions, and this convention was signed and put together in September 2013. The question is, why hasn't it been reviewed or ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament for three years? And now we know that Malta's presidency is the Presidency of the European Union, which will sign the decision to grant Ukraine a visa-free regime, and that's why Malta is now forcing Ukraine to ratify this convention. Why did Ukraine not do so? Probably because this convention contains a chapter on communication. And perhaps because it was not convenient for Ukraine to get information about the beneficiary owners of Maltese firms, it should be noted that Malta is a fairly interesting jurisdiction, in the first place, that the income tax is 35 percent. But Malta’s legislation allows quite simple conditions to minimize the rate to 5 percent. Thus, Malta is quite interesting to those Ukrainian companies and high - income owners who have been withdrawing their profits from Ukraine and hiding them, including Malta. So we have to ratify this convention now, even if only on the grounds that there is a full exchange of tax information. And we need to teach our fiscal authorities to hold conventions and work internationally to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u70	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u71	And we need to teach our fiscal authorities to use conventions to get information, and to use it for tax purposes, and to collect the money that comes out of it, and in transfer pricing, and in other standard schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u72	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Peter Jurchisin, "The Petra Poroshenko Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Kudlainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u74	Please: National Deputy Kudlainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u75	The Peter Prashenko faction supports this draft law and calls for national MPs to be united in making this decision. This is about adopting a convention to avoid double taxation, which, on the one hand, removes unnecessary barriers to investment cooperation between our countries and prevents tax evasion. This is really a step toward deepening cooperation between Ukraine and Malta. I would like to point out that a document of a given character is a common practice in international relations. Ukraine currently has about seven dozen effective double taxation agreements, helping to establish close partnerships and providing additional incentives for foreign investment in the domestic market. At the same time, I would like to remind you that Malta, who now presides in the European Parliament, has become a key partner in the issue of granting a visa to Ukrainians. Therefore, deepening cooperation with Malta at this stage will serve as an additional mechanism for effective integration of Ukraine into European society. We cannot be ashamed of the Ukrainian Parliament in the eyes of our foreign friends and partners. The desire for European choice should also be expressed in the overall support of treaties for the creation of Ukraine's image among our strategic partners. That's why the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party is calling for a vote in favour of ratifying this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u76	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Alexander Doubenkov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u77	The Opposition Block faction will support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation. I want to point out that this is really a standard practice when several countries want to increase the level of interaction between both the business relationship between the operators and the competent authorities during administrative interaction with each other, while exercising tax control over the economic activity of the operators. The Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation on Income Taxes and Property Taxes does not need to be confused. On the contrary, a marked convention called for, firstly, the elimination of double taxation by the host subject for the purpose of revitalizing the business activity abroad and, secondly, to increase transparency, transparency of the tax reporting of the host subject and, perhaps, its tax base, which is in a foreign country. So in any case, for the state of Ukraine, from the point of view of completeness, the availability of tax liabilities from income taxes that can be received abroad, that's convenient, that's a state budget replenishment, eventually. As far as the convention is concerned, it meets the OECD really basic standards, with standard rates for both passive income and active income. There is also a section on the exchange of information between competent authorities. As for the training of any competent authority to use transfer pricing institutions, there is a need for a comprehensive reform, not a point change, as is now the case with the current authorities. And there is a need for economic reform and tax reform in Ukraine, which has unfortunately not been done in three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u78	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the people's deputy Kuprienka, the Radical Party. One minute. Oh, no? Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Melniczuk, "The Will of the People." Please turn it on, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u79	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. The People's Will Group will have to support this bill, because we're in favour of deepening the relationship between the countries that support us, who want to see us as neighbors. And we're for honest and transparent business. The People's Will Group supports this bill and calls on all groups and parties and non-fractionals to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u80	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andrew Illenka. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u81	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, behind these beautiful phrases is the fact that this treaty actually introduces another possibility of actually avoiding tax evasion in Ukraine. Because Malta is essentially an offshore, like other similar countries, with substantially lower taxes than, for example, Ukraine. And this allows money laundering and tax evasion in Ukraine. Today we know that every year billions of dollars are being washed away in Ukraine through offshore schemes. And instead of supporting our Freedom Bill 1112, which we registered in the Supreme Council in 2014, on the return of capitals from offshore, today is trying to produce new and new schemes for the withdrawal of funds from Ukraine. This has to be stopped, such contracts cannot be voted on. Offshores need to be tackled, and it is necessary to force oligarchs to pay taxes in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u82	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the decision, get as close to your cards as possible. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the Protocol thereto (0141) on the proposal of a committee as a whole. Please vote, please support ratification, colleagues. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, 0141 as a whole. Vote. [[11:28:15.]] For 280 The law is passed. Colleagues, I've been approached by some factions who have reconsidered their position and are willing to support the cancellation of the 12:00-12:30 break. I ask everyone again to see the agenda. I'll remind you that on Thursday, when we canceled it, we adopted a record number of drafts. It's a record number! So I ask you once again to back up the offer, colleagues. Please take your jobs and offer to cancel break 12.00-12. 30 to back up, colleagues. I'll bet the vote on the motion to cancel the break at 12:00-12:30. Please vote, colleagues. And I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. We're voting off the 12:00-12:30 break. We vote. [[11:29:13]] For 197 We haven't completely reconsidered our position. We'll wait for enlightenment. The factions, please show me. I can ask that question, procedurally. And, colleagues, it takes 30 seconds, don't be offended. I think that's an important question. And we're moving on to the energy issue block, and the first question is, colleagues, this is the personnel question: 6356. This is a draft decision. This is a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for the National Commission for the implementation of State regulations in the field of energy and utilities, number 6356. Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[11:30:30]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Dombrovsky Complex, Alexander Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u83	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Your attention is now being given to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the selection of candidates for the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Regulation. I would like to remind everyone that in accordance with the Independent Regulator Act and in accordance with the President's decree, we need to form a commission of five. According to the law, the quota: two representatives to the commission are represented by the President of Ukraine, one representative to the commission is to be approved by the government. And two representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: according to factions, one representative, from the Fuel, Energy and one representative, according to factions, from the Committee on Housing and Utilities. We had a committee meeting yesterday. We've considered the proposals of the factions they've made. The factions considered two candidates who were present from. Constantine Zapajschev of the People's Front faction and Andria Gerus of the Self-Help faction. During the voting process, the majority supported and received the Zapaystnikov Kostin Volodymyrovich. And he is proposed to be nominated on behalf of the Committee to support the Supreme Council and to contribute to the Competitive Commission. Presbyterian Constantine has a special education, over 35 years of professional experience in the field of energy. He's experienced, he's principled and meets all the criteria that are set out for a candidate to work on this committee. On behalf of the Fuel and Energy Committee, I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u84	Please, 30 seconds. Don't you need it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u85	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u86	We're done, aren't we? Colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. Please. Eutushka, please. Sergey Soboljevo is passing it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Dear radio and television viewers! I think after our discussion yesterday about Mr. Vuk's candidacy, it was a discussion of what's going on in the regulator. It was a discussion of how the wolf led this country into a pen. Now we're offered other cats in a bag. Instead of adopting the relevant law in Parliament, Law 6073-1, which regulates the constitutional way of assigning NCREs and the relevant persons who will take the candidates there, we are again offered any decisions that will be approved in an unconstitutional way. Why is the President here, who's going to propose to this council? According to the Constitution, he has a comprehensive list of credentials. Show me an article in the Constitution, where does he have that right? On what basis do you grant him this right? And this is all settled in Bill 6073-1, which was signed, by the way, by representatives of virtually all factions. So the proposal of the "Paternity" faction is as follows. So that we don't call the so-called government regulators on the carpet here again, and then not hear that it's your own laws that allow you to raise tariffs. The first thing that needs to be done, Mr. Head, is to put into order the relevant law that governs the day, how a competition commission is chosen, and how it is recognized under the Constitution by the regulator, and then announce the competition and choose them. We're not going to vote for these candidates, because this is anti-constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u88	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Livik Alexander Petrovich passes the word to Dombrovski
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Ivanchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u90	Ivanchuk. Please, Ivanchuk. Turn on Ivanchuk's microphone, please. Ivanchuk is coming here to the rostrum. When Ivanchuk speaks, he comes out of the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, dear friends of a fellow national MP! We ask very much for the support of the candidate, Constantine Zapatichev, and we ask for a vote because we need to initiate this process of selecting members of the independent regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u92	From Self-Help, Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u95	"The Self-Help Union, of course, has a great desire today to change the membership of the National Commission and considers it absolutely principle that the Council should be determined with nominations for the nomination commission. At the same time, what happened yesterday is this big cynicism, when large factions of Parliament have not submitted their candidates at all, such as the Committee on Construction, Urban Building and Housing on their candidacy. Only three candidates were considered on the committee yesterday. At the same time, it was no wonder that the committee had never been fully assembled. A representation was gathered from all the political forces that voted in favour of one candidate, who was nominated by the largest political faction of Parliament. So we understand that the arrangements for this candidature have taken place behind the hall of the committee, under the hall of this Parliament, everything has already been agreed upon. That is why we will certainly not support these candidates and these unscrupulous arrangements. At the same time, we have proposed a very constructive approach so that all the factions will actually submit their candidates, so that a rating vote will be held and, at least, three or two candidatures would be put into this voting room. We think it's big propaganda and cynicism.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u96	And, colleagues, a closing statement from the Radical Party. And then we go to the vote, I ask everyone to invite the deputies into the hall, and in two minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u97	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear candidates for the competition committee, with all due respect to you, I see, adults are serious. But I think you're being used in court-martialed corruption deals and covered up for you. This is my consideration of today's question before. For members of the Competition Commission who will elect new members of the NCRECR, it reminds us of how you and I have chosen NAC audiences here. When people were brought in who no one had seen, with whom no one had spoken, the cat was put in a bag and let us choose. Today’s history shows the same. This confirms that the authorities are not going to give up the corrupt influence of the oligarchs on the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Market Regulation. There was a law in Parliament that, unfortunately, gave the President 18 months to replace the members of the commission. Today’s composition of the NCREKP had to be changed immediately and we insist on it. Now, according to the law, the new composition of the NCREKP is to be chosen by a competition commission. How can this competition commission be independent when in a totally cool, subversive way today we are offered two of the biggest factions to delegate the members of this commission there. I'm talking to President Poshenko, I'm talking to Prime Minister Groysman: listen, guys, stop holding people for fools and deputies, you don't have to do the stupid thing you do. This is the parliamentary-presidential republic and there is a clear list of the President's powers as enshrined in the Constitution: step to the left, step to the right -- the impeachment law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u98	Colleagues, so we're done here, and I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the room, and I want to remind you that, actually, we were going to solve these personnel issues earlier today, and the committee today on its block has prepared this question, and it's proposed in the agenda, the hall will already be determined with the support of whether or not the other candidate, but this is the position of the committee and the proposal of the committee -- in the voting room. Please take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for seats of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities (number 6356) as a whole. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, please vote 6,356 as a whole. Please vote, vote. [[11:41:50]] For 214 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'll ask you once I'm on my way back, if I ask you a humane question, if I ask you to come back. And I'm proposing to return to 6356, please vote back to 6356, please vote. [[11:42:23]] For 221 221. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, all right. Colleagues, last time I vote, last time, colleagues. Colleagues, I hear demands. The MPs are entering the hall. Please take up jobs. At the request of the head of the Peter Dusty Block, I'll put it back again. I bet 6356 returns to the vote, 6356 returns to the vote. Please vote. [[11:43:16]] For 221 The decision is not made. 6356, you don't make a decision. Let's move on to the next draft of Decree 6357. This is a draft decision on the election of a member of the Competition Commission from the election of candidates for the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in 6357. It's already the Andreyevsky committee. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the summary procedure, please. [[11:44:01]] For-191 Decision taken. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Andreyevsky Dmitry Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u99	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! To implement article 8 of the Ukrainian National Commission Act on State regulation in the field of energy and utilities (No. 1540), and in accordance with the Presidential Decree on the approval of the National Commission's plan for the rotation of the head and members of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities since 23.03.2017, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 12 April 2017 considered the candidates for a competitive commission proposed by the parliamentary factions and groups. As a result of the discussion and the conduct of the rating vote, it is recommended that Shulga Jury Ivanovich be nominated for the consideration of the Supreme Council. The committee has decided to support it and recommends that the Supreme Council support this person, who is over 40 years of professional experience, has experience in government. I am confident that this person will work hard and fulfill those tasks, and he will respond to the challenges facing our nation today. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u100	The co - report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and ZKH, Skuratovsky Sergey Ivanovich. Sergey Ivanovich? Dmitry Josephovich, you reported from the committee or. Dmitry Josephovich, did you report from the committee? Yeah, you reported it to the committee. Okay. I'm sorry. Please record two in, two in, against, please. Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u101	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I want you to pay attention to what farce is currently taking place in the Supreme Council. Yesterday, as if we were listening to the Wolf report and the MPs were loudly criticizing him for his resignation. Dear friends, but in parallel, there is an action that aims to place on this commission the same "Wolf" only number two, the dashed, the same person who will do the same. What happened on the committees yesterday? The ruling parties, the People's Front, the Peter Prashenko Block, along with the Opposition Block, they clearly chose these candidates. They were monolithous in determining that it was these people who would have to choose a commission to set tariffs for us. What's changed, my friends? The people who are influencing these factions, who are the oligarchs who are setting up tariffs for us today, which are sucking blood from the Ukrainians, have been mimicking this theater as if by appointment of an independent commission that will elect candidates for the membership of the NCREKP. Friends, the procedure itself, it's a fake. Two candidates are presented by the President, one by Kabmin and two by the Supreme Council. Would this give an objective choice for those who would stand up for tariffs? No, it's not. Schulga's candidacy, which is here in our room, is perhaps a respectable person, but who knows him if he's capable of fighting for people, for tariffs, has power, does he know his public, or has he shown himself? No, but the ruling party, the opposition block, and the People's Front supported him monolithically. This is all to make the tariffs the same high and what has been going on so far with the Wolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u102	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u103	I strongly propose not to support these candidatures. At least we have to ask the mayors of the cities, because they're on the front line with the communities. Are there any consultations with a city head? Did they determine who would be on these committees, who would choose who would be on the commission to determine the tariffs? No, it's not. The same people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Teen Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to the candidate, to his experience, until his age, I would like to point out that yesterday the contest that was held on our committee seemed to be actually an abuse of that candidate. Because he didn't even realize that he would be responsible for the selection of the board members who would be responsible for the sector: water management, heat management. He was always reminded, "You know, you talk about water and heat, not energy efficiency," which he knows how to talk about. It was a farce. At the same time, there were highly deserving other candidates who had a clear understanding of the task they were facing. But really, as colleagues from Fatherland have said today, there was a consolidated position of all the political forces, not just those who called them all about this candidate. Strangely enough, he knows so well that he needs to be made a member of a competitive commission. Of course, we will not support this theater that is now taking place. In fact, one actor's theater is made up of many factions. We think it's appropriate that we change that rule in the law on the NCREKP, on selection, and that there really should be a rating vote here, in the hall, without any prior culinary arrangements, so that all the political forces will submit their candidates, so that everyone can see who these candidates are, and here that this vote is going on. The Self-Help Association, with respect for the proposed person, does not support the process, and the selection process and the culinary arrangements that have taken place in our Parliament. That's why we don't support the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u107	From the Radical Party of Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u108	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, the Radical Party faction will not support the proposed candidacy, for it is a farce. Please tell me how are you going to vote for the candidate when you haven't heard his position on the activities of the NCRECR, on the three affairs that have been committed by the NCRECR, and have some of them stopped for the last few months? On January 31st, the NCREKP adopts 148 Regulations that unduly set the cost of connecting to electricity networks, tripled the impact on industry, agriculture, alternative energy, and construction. To date, this decision has not been repealed by the NCREKP. We simply managed to stop the printing by pressing into a frenzy. Because as deputy leader of the Radical Party, the head of the Committee of Prompolitics turned to the Prime Minister, to the GPA, to the NABU, and today this decree was not printed. But they want to do something else for her. Another affair. Payment for gas counters. They tried to force Ukrainians to pay for gas, even if they didn’t eat it, for gas transportation and even if a person was burning wood, he simply had a gas counter. Well, that's nonsense. That's absolutely ridiculous. Third affair. What's stopping this, they're continuing their affairs. Next affair. They are trying to introduce a fee for Ukrainian gas companies to pay for their gas supply to the Ukrainian gas transport system. In France, for example, 0, this rate for its own production, takes money from importers. It is therefore necessary to radically change the policies of the NCREKP, and there must be people who are responsible, who will act in the interests of society, industry, taxpayers and every citizen, not private monopolies, oligarchs who want to make billions by robbing Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u109	Now, I'll give it to you. The People's Front is Burbak. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Dombrowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, yesterday we all heard a report from the head of the NCREKP, and we all realized that this structure needs to be radically updated, because those decisions that are made do not benefit or protect the rights of consumers. This is the promotion of the interests of Firthash, Ljovczyn, particularly in the issue of gas subscription. It is therefore necessary to update, and it is necessary to vote in favour of the candidates who have been accepted by the committees. So, Mr. Head, I would like to refer you back to the previous decision regarding the appointment of a member of the NCREKP Competition Commission from a fuel-energy plant. PEC Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u111	Dombrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! I want to say that I am absolutely dividing the position that I have just heard from this rostrum to evaluate the decisions made by the NCRE and which, thanks to the collective position, have not been implemented, stopped or cancelled. But on the other hand, I would like to pay attention to our colleagues, and which against this decision of this decision, which must now be voted against, that great cynicism cannot be covered by even greater cynicism. Because if the situation with the NCRE does not suit us and it does not clearly suit us, then the members of the NCRE need to be changed. And if we don't vote first or second, we leave it the way it is, we don't start the rotation process, and we leave the cynics you just talked about. I therefore call for the vote and support of at least four candidates to start a transparent competitive option in order to select worthy, professional members of the NCRE who can claim a state mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u113	Please, 30 seconds. My colleagues, I don't really understand what an intrigue is here. The committee held its meeting, the committee proposed to the Supreme Council of Candidates. What's the point of breaking anything: the Constitution or the law? This is the right of the committee to be any committee, this is the authorization of the Supreme Council and the representation of the Supreme Council, a colleague. I just talked to the Apparatus, and they say that according to the candidates that the committee is proposing, we can go back to voting if there are votes, because there is no procedure. They are presented as a committee, colleagues. Now I'm going to make another proposal from the Andreyevsky Committee, 6357 and I'm asking you to mobilize and I'm asking you to support it. No, we're on our way. I'm asking that question, I'm asking that question. So I'm voting on proposal 6357 of the Decree on the election of a member of the Competition Commission from the election of candidates for the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities, number 6357. Please support the decision, please support the committee's decision. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:57:31]] For 229 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, I'm going to put once on my way back to 6356, to the staff proposal of the Dombrowski Committee. If there's Parliament's will, we'll come back. The camera says we can do this. And I'm voting back to the personnel proposal of the 6356 Dombrowski Committee. Anyone who supports the offer to return, please vote. Please vote who supports the return. Please vote. Maxim Burbak's offer to return to the People's Front. [[11:58:11]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Igor! The decision is not made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking you to remobilize. Complaints came. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! I'll bet again. Svetlana, I'm voting. Here we are. Yes, 6357, there were signals that there was a non-personal vote. 57, 57, right? Did you get it? Fifty-seven. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! 57. Colleagues, please mobilize. I put to the vote the draft Decree - asking everyone to take up their jobs - on the election of a member of the Competition Commission from the election of candidates for the National Commission for Energy and Utilities (6357). Everyone please take up their jobs. Please vote 6357, Andreyevsky's committee proposal. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:00:08]] For 221 221-yes. Are there any buttonage signals? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let's make a joint decision. Are there buttoning facts on the video? Svetlana. Wojciecka, right? My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. Once again, there are buttoning facts. Colleagues, when there are buttoning facts, I put the vote again. Please mobilize, please take up jobs. Please take up your jobs. Please take up your jobs. I put to the vote a draft decree on the election of a member of the Competition Commission from the election of candidates for the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities (No.6357). Please vote, please support. 6357. Please vote. [[12:01:46]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Come on, guys, let's go. I'll continue for 15 minutes. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, so that we can at least start it, colleagues. I have the right to continue for 15 minutes. This is a question of energy, please. And I invite the head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety of the Dombrovsky Alexander to report. Please, Mr. Alexander. I went on for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I don't think we have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u115	Instead of breaking the application, we want to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u116	The discussion is now under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u117	Huh? It hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u118	I see people coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u119	Colleagues, we talked to the committee head, obviously there's a point to start. The committee head proposes to start at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u120	Colleagues, faction, wait, statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u121	I'm going to read out what factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u122	Self-help and the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u123	Self-help and the Radical Party, I announce from two factions. They're ready to take a break. And I give you my word. Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u124	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u125	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, as soon as you all saw what was going on in the hall. When buttons, people who are not in Parliament, national MPs who are required to come to work in accordance with the Constitution do not have to vote personally, instead they press buttons to select the members of the Competition Commission of the NCREKP, who then chooses the same "wolfs" as they sit there today to rob you, to raise tariffs. The position of the Head of Parliament, who put the vote to the vote, has shown that there are really no MPs who support this affair. I want the whole of Ukraine to see corruption go on in Parliament, and then every Ukrainian in his own pocket pays for this corruption. Look who voted for President Poshenko to control the new composition of the NCREKP -- the faction of the BBC, the faction of the People's Front, the oligarchy groups and the so-called "Opposition Block". And you see, the whole independence of the NCRECR, when the oligarchs and the authorities come together and choose a new one, they say, "We need to choose a new composition of the NCRECR, which will be independent." How independent he will be when two people are appointed by the President, two people are appointed by Parliament and the same people by the President and one by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm saying it's a big affair and a lie: the contestants didn't even get invited to the stand, they didn't hear their report, the buttonheads in conspiracies with the oligarchic groups, the authorities are taking illegal decisions. Let them stretch out their decisions to raise your pensions and wages; let them stretch out their decisions to create jobs for Ukrainian youths; let them make decisions so that they do not rob the land and Ukrainian peasants in order to avoid barracking. They don't fight for people, and when it comes to corruption flows, to being able to control them, to rob Ukrainians, they're willing to put Parliament in their ears, and they're constantly pushing buttoned up to make these corrupt decisions. These ballots show that political corruption has returned to the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, and these vote shows that the President and the current authorities in conspiracies with the oligarchs continue to rob Ukrainians. The Radical Party faction and all democratic opposition forces inside and outside Parliament must unite to stop this robbery by the oligarches and current authorities. We can't let Ukraine and the Ukrainians get robbed!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u127	Colleagues, I hereby declare a recess of 30 minutes. At 12.35, please meet in the conference room to continue our work. At 12:35, please be in the hall to continue our work. I'm reminding you, we're moving on to the energy block right now. There are a few questions, and the committee asks for a change in their sequence. And I would like everyone to be in the room on time so that we can continue our work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u128	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, the chairman of the committee asked us to change the sequence within his block so that we could first consider the law that stands next -- 6212 and then the electricity market. I think we'll listen to the committee. Mikhail, wait a minute, wait, not yet. I'm just reporting that the committee within its bloc has asked for a change of laws, and I think we're going to listen to the committee. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I ask to invite deputies to the Hall and report that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is continuing. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Vote. Please, they go into the hall, the columns, the columns go straight to the MPs, organized and arranged. Yes, please invite the deputies to the hall. If only we'd canceled the break. Excuse me? We've agreed with the chairman of the regulatory committee that we're moving a block of regulatory issues to next week. This was the position of acting as the chairman of the regulatory committee for us to move this block, the whole cluster of regulatory issues, to the next week. Colleagues, please take your seats right now, we're going to need to vote 150 votes for the reduced procedure. Which is why I'm asking all the deputies to come to the hall and support it. I want to emphasize that this is now going to be 6212 -- this is a draft of the Act to restore the capacity of state-owned coal companies. It's a law that supports all the factions in support of the miners, our colleague Michael Bondar, and it's going to take 150 votes for us to consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. We've already lost a lot of time by not taking off our breaks. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Now, let's go. Then there'll be an electricity market right now. Then there'll be an electricity market right after that. Colleagues, now there's a request from two factions for a break from Peter Prashenko's Block and the People's Front, and they're ready to replace two factions for a break from the rostrum. I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, 3 minutes, please. And please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u129	Ah, thank you, fellows of honor! I'm going to try to be as calm as possible, although this topic that I want to dedicate to this talk really hurts. And I'm going to talk about the topic on which today we're trying to set up certain politicians and some political factions of the "dancing on bones and dancing on chains" that are being tied today by our hostages at the ORDO and the ORLO to the sticks where Putin keeps them today. I am happy that there is a political faction in this room, which for the first time in three years has learned that we have hostages. Because when the parents and the wives of the hostages came to Lviv, the faction did not meet them and did not give them any money to help their parents and their wives settle in the hotel. But I want to ask, you know, if there's any real men left in this room, look at these men. Imagine that you have become a hostage and that your sick mother and young wife are somewhere far away from you. If you're a real man, you probably want her to be protected so she can have psychological support. I want to conduct a rating vote, which one of you would like to have your mother and wife dragged to minus 20 frosts. Raise your hand, please, who would want your mother or wife to be drawn to the line. But here are the political forces that danced on the bones on both these chains, and the sick elderly women drew the prisoners out of jail, but released the Zero, while translating the sick head into a healthy one and telling them that it's not like Putin is holding our children today. And now I'm going to tell you this because it was necessary to report directly on what was going on with the release of the hostages, where today the Minsk Group, despite all the criticism being unfair, was able to pull out 50 people in 2015 when others released the Zero, and release 20 people in 2016, when others released the Zero. The Minsk group has released these hostages, and those who today demand that Ukraine withdraw from the mine format are playing Putin. Because it's really Putin's dream to leave Ukraine alone with the Russian Federation. Do you know what these other factions were talking about when they met with moms? That the State does not support the hostages. This was said by factions who did not vote in favour of the 2017 budget, where you and I set up support for the families of the hostages, where you and I have set up support for the Ukrainian army. And the key is now what's going on in Minsk. Unfortunately, given the fact that the hostages today have become this blackmail, including the use of local princes, who do not understand much about it, we have an increase in them. We have 126 hostages today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u130	Please, 30 seconds. Give me a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u131	The faction called for a direct report, on direct air, on what was happening to the hostages. Not once, at all, do you think that my calls to invite representatives of the Minsk group, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Nordic format, have you ever met? No! No! Because it's not the hostages that need to go around the country. You know, you can talk, you can speculate, and you can go, and you can do it. Whoever wants to go and do this, take the hostages from one family, help them. Help financially, help psychologically. The Act on Occupied Areas. Read this law, colleagues. The key article there is the refusal of the Minsk Accords and the gift of Putin Donbas. If anyone really wants to give Putin something, give him his house from Lviv, that would be very wise. And now for the hostages. Today 126 men and women are on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u132	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u133	It's important. Hostage release process has been blocked since September 2016. What is required of Ukraine to free them? Amnesty. I want to conduct a rating vote: do you vote for those who killed Ukrainians who cut the stomach of our fellow fisherman? They're demanding the release of 62 killers, they're demanding the release of 30 people who were involved in crimes outside the ATO zone. And Ukraine is looking for compromise. We've been trying for two months to find that international organization that's going to do it, to collect those people's signatures -- and a few hundred of them -- who don't want to move to occupied territories, but we're ready to hand them over. The Red Cross was categorically abandoned by representatives of the ORDO and the ORLO, and they agreed to join the UN. And then, after two months of heavy fighting, the U.N. also refused! And you know what they said? "We demand that the representatives of Anti-Maidan, with specific names, enter Ukrainian prisons, and they verify these people. Who's going to support this room, raise your hands! The Ukrainian side made sure yesterday that this verification was very important for us to start the liberation process, and it was in Minsk that we did it, that the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights of Lutkowski was doing it, because it was its mandate, along with the OSCE. That's where we're at. We're in the process of letting the Red Cross go to jail. And the one who wants to help the hostages. At international meetings, talk about 126 hostages! Talk about it, not Dusty, then you'll be working for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u134	So, colleagues, let's move on to the draft Act on Restoration of the Payability of State Industrial Enterprises (6212). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. It's helping miners, it's helping the coal industry. I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[12:48:26]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the PEC Subcommittee on Nuclear Politics and Nuclear Security, Mr. Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Law 6212 is proposed. The reason for this bill was the urgent need to protect the enterprises of the state — and I would stress — of Ukraine’s coal - mining industries from blocking mines and their artificial bankruptcy. In connection with this, I am invited to establish a transitional period until January 1, 2019, during which there will be a ban on the execution and arrest of exclusively state-owned industrial enterprises, except as decided by the owner, or Minneergogyl. This will give it time for the Ministry of Profiles to prepare the government mines it has identified for privatization, to modernize the existing fund for the exit of state-owned enterprises into self-sustainment, and to find mechanisms for restructuring and repayment of existing debts. Colleagues, since this is not about isolated cases, but about a critical sector-wide destructive phenomenon, I ask you very much to support my proposal to adopt this bill in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u136	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Wojcietsky, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Lviv Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u138	Please, Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u139	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. The coal sector is very important for the economy of Ukraine, because there are, first of all, very many people working there, tens of thousands of people. And secondly, the coal sector works for another large sector, namely electricity. Cooperation, successful cooperation between the two branches is very important because it provides us with this light and warmth. So the effective work of the coal sector as well as the electricity system is a very, very principle for us. What happened in the last year, we all know. These are the disgraceful "Rotterdam Plus" formulas that gave preference only to individual market participants, a separate company or a separate oligarch working on this market. Regrettably, the formula did not even prevent bankruptcy and nonpayment from government coal companies, and it was shameful. The bill, which is proposed by the reporter, prohibits bankruptcy and leads to bankruptcy in government coal mines. In fact, they are not always effective, they are not always profitable, they really have a lot of work to do. And this should not be delayed, for it is a crime to force people into dangerous mines, and then not to pay them or pay them much later, only after the MPs are gathered and transferred from one article of the budget to another. So we need to radically change the coal sector. Make a reform. And to start it, probably from the electricity market, which I hope we will vote in the next. And now, for this transitional period, we need to support this bill, maybe not too marketable, but necessary for the sector. Please be supportive. Self-help will do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u140	Thank you. I want to tell you, Mr. Oleg, are you a reporter? The next thing we know, we're going to get through quickly, there's going to be an electricity market after this law. From the Radical Party is Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A few days ago, Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman, speaking in one of the other economic forums, said he wanted to buy coal in America, in South Africa, in any other country. Mr. Prime Minister! I urge you to buy coal in Ukraine! To give work to Ukrainian miners. Paying wages to Ukrainian miners. Investing in the development of the Ukrainian carbon economy. Likewise, I urge you to support Ukrainian metallurgy, Ukrainian builders, Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian rocket builders! Support the Ukrainian economy! Because when you spend billions of dollars abroad buying goods, you create jobs for foreigners. And Ukrainian miners, Ukrainian miners, Ukrainian metallurgists, Ukrainian peasants are unemployed and unable to feed their families! When you, I call on the President and the Prime Minister, when you change monetary policy instead of taking credit, you give cheap loans to the national producer, he, the national business, will create jobs for the Ukrainians! They're going to raise wages! An increase in wages will solve the problem of filling the Pension Fund. You'll have money to raise pensions, to solve social problems. And if instead of creating jobs for Ukrainians, supporting a national producer, you're going to put out currency abroad, you're going to get loans abroad, our country will never be able to be a powerful economically developed state. We demand a radical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u142	Krivenka, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u143	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. This bill is very important, and we support it, we vote for it, but it has number 6212. The bill from 5693 to 519 bills had previously been filed on the payroll of the South. It is actually supported by everyone in the hall and is somehow out of the question. I call on you first week after this forced vacation for a month, where we will work in our regions to pass this bill. Let the government show its position, or the Prime Minister says that he supports the missile-space sector and guarantees the repayment of the debt on salary, and then says unofficially that the government will not support this bill. So I urge all factions of all colleagues to ask for pressure on our government to have a bill on the South. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u144	Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Ivan Krulko just one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u145	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'm looking at the order of the day for today, after the break we had to consider the electricity market bill, we skipped it. In accordance with the Rules, they were to vote in favour of transferring it to another bill. I understand that this bill will not be considered today, it has been withdrawn. Because if it's not taken off, then why is there a violation of the Rules in this session room? And now essentially the bill. Of course, Fatherland will vote in favour of this bill. Yes, it is a temporary norm, but we must support the state mines that thousands of Ukrainians are working to support their families, and it is very common for a miner to support his family and his parents. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to vote, to allow the debt to be paid to coal miners, to support those mines that work in controlled Ukraine and must now be given the opportunity to prevent the bankruptcy of state mines and the way in which state property was previously looted. That's why Fatherland will support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u146	Thank you. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait a minute, Mikhail! Yes. And, colleagues, please invite everyone into the hall, now let's move on to making a decision. Invite everyone into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block faction supports this bill. But we also insist that our bill for a moratorium on mine closure be considered. Because now, we know, the Ministry of Energy is preparing a plan to shut down the mines. Unfortunately, however, the Law on the prestige of mining is not being fully implemented. Sadly, today miners are not compensated for what they have done today. And unfortunately, we also see a very complex situation in the coal sector. That is why we now support this bill. But we insist that there be a report by the Minister of Energy so that we can see a plan now for the development of this sector and for the protection of our miners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u148	Thank you. So, colleagues, here's a committee representative, Mikhailo Bondar, one minute. And in one minute, we're going to vote. Please take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I asked for it in the first reading and in general. I was just sitting in the Cabinet yesterday, talking to the Prime Minister, and he supported what the bill needed. And I will ask you in the first reading and in the whole, that you may not delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u150	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, please take up jobs. All right, let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm putting to the vote the bill on the restoration of the capacity of state-owned coal companies (6212), first I'm going to lay the groundwork, and then, if there's the will of the hall, in general. 6212 is based. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please support 6212 as a base. [[13:00:04]] For 248 Decision taken. Now I'm putting 6212 as a whole, if there's any support, please vote. In general, 6212, please vote. [[13:00:27]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act (second reading). This is rereading the second reading, colleagues. And I invite the head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security to report. Mr. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u151	A doer of responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u152	Doing the job. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, a venerable presidency! Before presenting the draft bill for re-reading, I would like to say a few very key things. In order to understand why we should vote in favour of this bill, we must understand what we have today. And today we have a completely monopolistic structure in the electricity market, where one is the one who buys; one institution, the state, the only one that sells, is the so-called unified electricity market and the internal debt that led to the country and the market, and the electricity system to total bankruptcy, because today we have more than 30 billion debt, including the key state companies that generate. What does this bill propose? A European model is proposed that meets the requirements of the Third Energy Package, which employs 28 European Union countries. And a bill prepared by the working group, together with the European Commission, with the Secretariat of the Energy Community, which, in full letter and in accordance with the law, corresponds to European norms and practices. Prior to the second reading, some 200 rights were introduced to the committee meetings. I would like to inform you that 78 rights have been introduced, key rights have been introduced by a group of people's deputies who represent virtually all factions, I say, practically, with the rare exception of 78 key rights that we think are key, important and structural. And I'm going to allow myself, on behalf of a group of authors, and on behalf of the committee, to make a proposal to Parliament, to use part three of article 119 to consider the electricity market bill. Before or during the second reading of the bill, a proposal may be made to discuss and vote first on the structural parts of the bill, which contain the basic, decisive or plausible positions on its other relevant structural parts. Such a proposal is discussed under a reduced procedure, followed by a procedural decision. I, on behalf of the authors who have introduced a structural group of rights that has a direct bearing on the foundation, to the meaning of the bill, ask the chairman to set rule 119.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u154	Thank you. Mr. Alexander, would you just count these amendments under the transcript, please? I'll give you two more minutes, what do you call those stenographers, the numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u155	Article 1, Amendment 4. Article 2, number 76. Article 3, number 99. Article 4, Amendment 108. Article 5, Amendment 111. Article 6, Amendment 124. 7 articles, 153 revisions. Article 8, Amendment 167. Article 9, Amendment 179. Article 10, Amendment 197. Article 11, Amendment 200. Article 12, Amendment 203 Article 13, number 205. Article 14, Amendment 207. Article 15, Amendment 210. Article 16, Amendment 211. Article 17, Amendment 224. Article 18, Amendment 228. Article 19, number 235. Article 20, Amendment 239. Article 21, number 242. Article 22, Amendment 266. Article 23, number 272. Article 24, Amendment 273. Article 25, Amendment 280. Article 26, Amendment 287. Article 27, Amendment 288. Article 28, Amendment 290. Article 29, Law 306. Article 30, number 336. Article 31, Law 356. Article 32, Amendment 358. Article 33, number 363. Article 34, Amendment 384. Article 35, Amendment 390. Article 36, Amendment 394. Article 37, number 395. Article 38, Amendment 402. Article 39, readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u156	Add time to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u157	Article 40, Amendment 408. Article 41, Amendment 410. Article 42, Amendment 411. Article 43, Amendment 412. Article 44, Amendment 413. Article 45, Amendment 414. Article 46, Amendment 416. Article 47, Amendment 422. Article 48, Amendment 430. Article 49, number 435. Article 50, Amendment 438. Article 51, Amendment 441. Article 52, Amendment 450. Article 53, number 453. Article 54, Amendment 458. Article 55, Amendment 461. Article 56, number 465. Article 57, Law 476. Article 58, Amendment 491. Article 59, No. 500. Article 60, 502 readjustment. Article 61, 509 readjustment. Article 62, 524 readjustment 63 articles, 561 revisions. 64 articles, 584 revisions. 65th, 599th. 66 articles, 624 revisions. 67, 636 revisions. 68 articles, 637 revisions. 69 articles, 644 revisions. 70 articles, 651 revisions. 71 articles, 655 revisions. 72 articles, 668 revisions. 73 articles, 678 revisions. 74 articles, 679 revisions. 75 articles, 687. 76 articles, 695 revisions. 77, 698 revisions. Final and Transitional Positions, 715 revisions. I would like to point out that the group of authors of these rights: Podlisecki, Vojcicka, Bilkova, Batenko, Bandurov, Martovicki, Bondar, Chizmar, Dombrowski - sees these amendments as structural parts of the bill, which contain the main decisive and binding positions on other parts. And according to 119 articles, section 3, paragraph 3, please consider them at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u158	Thank you. Indeed, the chairman of the committee approached the committee before the beginning of the recess session and stressed the rule of the Rules that the committee had the right to stress those rights that were crucial to the bill and to ask the Supreme Council to support them. Hence, according to the same article, the question is discussed. And that's why I'm going to give all the factions a minute to discuss this proposal to the committee. Please, which one of you? Julia Timoshenko, one minute. And determine who. No, after a minute, colleagues, after a minute of discussion. All factions, please identify who will be speaking. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u159	Dear friends, I would now like to address all the deputies who still have a conscience. This bill on the electricity market is the most corrupt bill in this Parliament, perhaps only after the gas market bill. And they want to extend it in ad hoc mode, which in principle directly contradicts the very essence of the legislative, legislative process. They want to let nothing be discussed so that the country doesn't hear anything, and one button, one vote with all these terrible rights, with barter, with corruption, with the absolute deception of every Ukrainian, they want to go through with it. Those who vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure will virtually destroy Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And this law doesn't have the right to life because it's mega-corruption. Let's talk about it, and then we'll make a decision. And none.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u160	But no one here offered any ad hoc procedure from the rostrum! What are you talking about? Please, now. Who's from Peter Dust? Dombrowski, one minute. Bourbuck, one minute. Easy, one minute. I'll give everyone a minute, colleagues. Please, Dombrowski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I would only like to support the position of the Chief of the Supreme Council that no ad hoc procedure is proposed. We suggest that we turn to article 119 of the Rules as a law of Ukraine, to part three, which says what I read from the rostrum. So all of our proposals are clearly in line with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'd like to keep my facts simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u162	Wait! In sequence. Maxim Burbak is a minute. Then Easy – a minute, then Berezuk – a minute. Please. Katzer-Buchowska, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u163	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we are. This is the second attempt to consider a bill on the electricity market in this sessional room. And I very much ask each of you to support this market reform. A few years ago, we voted on the Natural Gas Market Act, and now we see positive developments. It is called the most successful reform of our Parliament. So we ask you very much to vote on this bill in the second reading. I want to say that this bill will allow you to demonolyse electricity markets, allow you to invest in the electricity market. And those destructive factions that are now talking about what the market is. This bill doesn't have to be supported, last time they ruined the vote for this bill, I hope they don't get it this time, and Ukraine will have a chance to reform the electricity market as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u164	Please, Baby. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My distinguished colleague, who was twice Prime Minister, said on Monday on the Conciliation Council that the Energy Market Bill was very corrupt. And Ukrainians are usually used to believing this honorary colleague, who was twice prime minister. And so I asked for advice, and here I have a letter in my hands with the signatures of the representatives of the European Energy Society, the representatives of the European Union, the Embassy of Great Britain, the representation of the World Bank, the EBRD, all of our partners. So they ask me to vote for this law, which will be a very important step forward. That's my question. If this is a corrupt law, as the distinguished two-time prime minister has told us, Europe is a corrupt country. How? So let us not defraud, as you always do, people. To begin with, you want to overcome corruption, return from offshore money -- hundreds of millions of dollars that you and Lazarus have spent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u166	One minute, Berezuk. I remind you, it's a replica when it's called a name or a faction. Please, Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u167	Your Honourable Mr. Head, Your Honourable Colleagues, this law is very important and necessary to the State, but we have no right to break the procedure. The secretariat found a good procedure, 119 articles, but by no means do we have the right to vote all the articles together. All the structural articles that have been selected must be voted on and discussed. It's a very important thing. If a national MP wants to talk and discuss another article, he should be present in this room, otherwise we do not need a parliament. And the law is very important, and everyone has to sit, discuss, and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u168	Thank you, colleagues. We had a discussion. Sphinx, right? Colleagues, pay attention! Not all groups and factions have taken the floor yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Kulinich, Kulinich, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u169	Please pass the word to Vitalia Barbinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the law is of course important, but there is a procedure. A thousand 200 amendments, including some of our group members, will require confirmation to make a number of amendments. So I'm asking you to follow procedure, because this is just an extraordinary bill that we're considering. The committee's position is very good, but, nevertheless, we need to follow the full procedure, consider the amendments and make a number of amendments that we have a disagreement with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u171	Please, Irina Lucenko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I would like to address all the deputies because we have been called upon to conscience here. So I'm addressing all the deputies who have a conscience, and I'm quoting what the representative of the European Union is talking about. They literally turned to the Supreme Hall a few minutes ago with the support of the bill. "The representation of the European Union underlines the importance and relevance of the adoption of the Power Market Act. This will be an important step towards a specific, competitive and open electricity market in Ukraine that will bring it closer to how electricity markets work in the European Union." Let us not call on our conscience. Let us make real reforms, not act on punctuality, deception, and manipulation! Let's keep it up, fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u173	Colleagues! Okay, one more minute, Timoshenko. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please come into the hall and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u174	Dear friends! I think we're all well aware of the round forest story when all the callers were yelling that we wouldn't let that happen. But it was also a proposal and a requirement. Send the raw material, the forest round, not send the finished product. In addition, it was only at night that the law was "spyed" with corruption laws that were not exactly able to read by the representatives of the European Union or other international structures. Because here, as amended, it's not just corruption, and here's barter, there's absolute selectivity, there's definition, in manual mode, who's going to do anything. And the European institutions have no bearing on this mess! There only Mr. Cononenko of the WFP has made so many rights that in principle this law will serve only the corrupt environment of the President. And that's why it's just an article reading! And only a person's vote! And don't make Parliament a monkey who pushes buttons!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u175	So we had a discussion with our colleagues according to the rules. A replica? Replica, Igor Cononenko. Replica, one minute. But don't name any more names and factions, please. Because we're going to talk forever. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! My last name was on it. I would like to point out that, in fact, on the committee yesterday, I made one amendment concerning the admission to the electricity market of authorized state banks instead of one bank. The only right thing I'm stressing is my last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u177	Thank you. Colleagues, I remind you, we are now discussing the committee's proposal to place on the confirmation of an amendment that it considers to be crucial and fundamental. Once again, please explain your proposal, Mr. Dombrowski, and let us proceed to the vote. Please, Dombrowski, one minute. And take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I want to make one more point: we have a law called the Supreme Council Regulation. There are 119 articles in this law. I'm going to allow all the national MPs to read it in detail. Chapter III. "Before or during the second reading discussion of the bill, a proposal may be made to discuss and vote first those structural parts of the bill, which contain basic, decision-making or plausible positions." Our suggestion is that the amendments to the articles that I dictated should be voted on in the beginning. It's the right of the people's deputies, it's the right of the committee, it's the right laid down in the Rules. And if you take this procedure, we're going to vote on these amendments, and then we're going to look at all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u179	All of it. Thank you. Colleagues, so please take up jobs. We've had a discussion and now I'm putting a motion to vote to support the procedure proposed by the committee head, which has just been discussed so that we can vote first on those proposals and those that the committee considers to be crucial to the bill. So whoever supports this proposal by the committee and committee heads, please vote and please support. Please vote. For the procedure, yes, for the procedure proposed. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. This will greatly shorten our consideration of the bill. Please be supportive. This will be more effective. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:21:51]] For 282 282 – yes. Hall's backing up. And now I'm voting on the committee's proposal to confirm the list of rights that the committee's chairman read from the stand under the transcript. Whoever supports this proposal, I would like to vote in favour of the confirmation of the rights proposed by the committee under the transcript from the Supreme Council rostrum. Please vote, please support. Yes. Please be supportive. [[13:22:29]] For 260 260-yes. Corrections are supported, colleagues. I now invite a representative of the committee of the Podlisecki Lev Theophilovich to the rostrum. Please, Mr. Lev. Please, Leo Theophilovich. Please, Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I have an opening statement on behalf of the committee. And I would like to reiterate once again that this bill, as the previous rapporteurs have said, is supported entirely by all European donors, by European co-operation and is a requirement for cooperation with Europe with regard to the introduction of transparent and market conditions for the functioning of the electricity market. In fact, the Ukrainian model of electricity is often mentioned and compared with English. In fact, once Ukrainian energy was built on the basis of English, the same principles of a single pool, so it's called a pool. It's in England and Ukraine, and this pool is called Energy Company, which is the only company that buys all electricity for today, and then the only company that sells the only potential electricity supplier in every area. Thus, manufacturers have no right and cannot compete, manufacturers cannot determine their prices, but they are designated by the NCRECR as the only body authorized to regulate the activities of all the entities in the electricity market. Just like the consumer can't tell, and who and by whom, I'm going to buy the price. Every consumer buys into the only supplier and they're illegal, they can either take electricity, or they don't take it as an anecdote says, "And walk among the rows, bargain." And I'm going to notice that the UK that we're referring to, the electricity market in accordance with the Third Energy Package, which we're talking about all over Europe, was also put in place in Britain in 2009, a market for electricity in accordance with the Third Energy Package. Today in Britain, I was literally two weeks ago, meeting with their analogy to the NCRECR, their parliamentarians, with 48 electricity suppliers, who also supply gas. So it's a completely different philosophy when there's a seller who offers consumers the best price, the best conditions, the best service, maybe a comprehensive service, the supplier offers both the price of gas, and the price of electricity, and the best conditions of service. And that is what we should want, that we should want our consumers to have a choice, not be slaves to the energy plant, but be full subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u181	Thank you. 30 more seconds, right? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u182	I'll finish. Our consumers are to be energy subjects. And I'm proud that the last year that I worked as the head of the electricity subcommittee, at the Fuel and Energy Committee, this bill that I've been able to keep the same distance from all the interests of different corporate structures, different market participants, this bill that's being sent, it's balanced, it's aimed at developing global energy and it's aimed at having an effective operating system and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u183	Thank you. The report is complete. So, colleagues, colleagues, we've confirmed all the amendments that the committee has made. Are there other questions? None. Colleagues, then we go to the vote, we've confirmed the key changes. And I'm voting on the draft Market Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, talk about it, huh? It's on the books, isn't it? All right, those not voted, those not voted. Please, Sergey Sobolev, a minute. Sergey Sobolev, what's your name?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u184	The President-in-Office, look, we've just voted all the amendments -- we haven't voted for them, but you voted for them, which were called the previous reporter -- now we're going to go ahead. Call it: number one, two, three, four -- already voted, so we don't call it, voted 76, 99, we don't call it. But you are obliged to follow through on our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u185	Mr. Sergei, we'll call a committee representative. And I want to remind you, we're looking at those adjustments that were made to the second one, not all thousands, not thousands of rights, no. Well, let the committee head call it now, please. Colleagues, I've asked a simple question. Colleagues, attention, I said, except for those rights that insist. Please, Odarchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u186	Mr. Andrey, I have a lot of rights. I'm asking you to go straight to the first line, friend. You're in violation of the Rules. Today you're working for the oligarchs when you're creating a system where no MP can say what you think, before that we've voted for the appointment of some of the members of the commission that will determine the members of the NCRE. It was a corrupt approach. You're showing that this is a scheme where the oligarchs who today will raise the price of electricity to the sky and no Ukrainian will be able to pay for it, don't break the procedure, please make any adjustments. Now you're subtracting from government regulation the price of electricity. I want all Ukrainians to know that this will certainly lead to an increase in the price of electricity across Ukraine. We have the same analogy by.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u187	One second, give the microphone to Kulkov while we're at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u188	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, national MPs! Let us stop in this session room once again destroying parliamentaryism. We agreed with the committee’s right under article 119 of the Rules to vote on the key amendments. You voted, "Fatherland" voted against. But then there is article 120 of the Rules, which foresees that you should follow each amendment separately. This is the norm of the Rules of Procedure for the second reading of the bill. If you destroy parliamentaryism, there will be no parliament tomorrow, no laws will be passed here, no decrees will be issued without any laws. Stop, destroy the procedure and the Rules. There are 120 articles that provide for the review of the amendments, we go after all the amendments, we vote, and every national MP has the right to support or support an amendment. Let's follow the Supreme Council Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u189	I'll bet. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Alexander Dombrowski. Please make an offer on how to act. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to suggest to everyone a little bit to lower the boiling temperature in this room. Because at such a temperature of boiling, it is difficult to make balanced, objective, right decisions, first of all. The second thing I'd like to suggest is there's no national MP, and I'm talking to my colleagues who, in front of me, who want to destroy or discredit Ukrainian parliamentaryism, are going to do it without us. Third position, I've read the revisions that. I read those papers and articles that we voted on, which are structural. But there are other revisions that have been made to read again. I said the entire right was about 200. If I understand that, if the right-wing authors that we have not voted on have a desire to either confirm them or, if they are not included, vote them, please raise your hand, put them on the vote or cancel or support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u191	Colleagues, let's exchange our thoughts. I'm asking the factions to exchange our thoughts on how to act. Look at this. I'll explain it to you. We have, in fact, almost a thousand rights in the bill, but by the second reading, only 180, 78 of them have been submitted before the second reading, and we've already confirmed them. Let's talk about how we should be about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u192	Please, Gerasimov, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, this law requires us and requires energy from us. This law awaits our international partners. And we've just heard about this call from the European Commission. In addition, all our contacts with experts confirm that this is a major reform and that we cannot delay. That's why I'm asking. The committee worked very closely on this law. We see the efforts of certain factions, certain deputies to destroy this reform, but this is directed at Ukraine. So I ask now to put this question to a vote in general, to vote, and then to make a decision -- and to make a decision -- to start this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u194	Please, it's Long. Then there's Ivanchuk. Please, Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u195	From where I was standing was the head of our committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u196	Please, the People's Front is Ivanchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u197	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I would like to remind you that in our Parliament, decisions are made by a majority. No MP who has made many or few amendments can stop the process. We've already disgraced the whole world with the European law that we've been looking at all day, and we've finally failed it. It's a clean Thursday. It's a holiday. You're required by Parliament, put in this bill that requires society as a whole. And the hall will be determined. Stop speculating!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u198	Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u199	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The passions in this room show how important the law is to be considered. And that is why, Your Honor, Mr. Head, there must be strict adherence to the procedure provided for in the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. In the electricity market bill that we're looking at, we're now looking at in the second rereading, we don't need to re-examine a thousand rights, as we looked at during the first and second reading. Now, these changes that have been made to re-read, who insists, put to the vote, the room is defined. That's five minutes of questioning. We follow the procedure and vote in favour of the law as a whole. I propose this important law for Ukrainian energy, for Ukrainian consumers, for our European partners to adopt in full compliance with read-out procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u200	Thank you. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u201	Mr. Head, I'm addressing you now. You are now under the responsibility of preservation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Head! For us, you are now responsible for the preservation of parliamentaryism in the country. Just because this law is impeccable, it must be accepted according to all procedure and the Rules. Moreover, I would go back to the 90 and vote them individually, because there must be no doubt that this law is good. But it's worked out, and it's very much needed by the country, so it's in every right until the second reading of the vote in this room. The hall is present, and everyone wants this law. Sit down and work!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u202	And now for the final position. The committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, I would like to point out that these are given to the second reading of the rights. How much, Leo Theophilic? How much, Leo Theophilovich, tell me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'll give it to you. I'll give it to you, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u203	I have an offer. For the second reading, there are about 200 right - hand boxes. Appropriately, the second reading examines these changes, which were made to the second. So I suggest you look at them now. In fact, those that have been rereaded for the second reading. I have a list of them, I can read them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u204	Now, just a minute, I'll give it to the faction. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! We have two types of rights: those who have just voted with a spear, although the 119th article clearly states that these amendments can be voted on by chapters, but each one individually. Now we have after the second reading rejected due to a lack of confirmation of nearly 30 rights. What will you do with them? They're rejected because they haven't been confirmed. And there's another 110 right-hands out of 90 that were read, that weren't voted at all. So a big request now, first of all, let's go get the text. There's 200 extra rights, so let's go through these. There are deviations because they have not been confirmed, almost thirty rights, reading the previous one. Otherwise, the law does not adhere to any procedure. And the last. The one who is so weeping under the Constitutional Court Act, I think that Parliament has done absolutely right by overthrowing a law that has no reference to citizens, but there is only one thing: the salaries of judges, additional articles that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u206	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u207	which have been filed in breach of the Rules. That is why the hall was absolutely clear and rejected the law. Our requirement: we go according to the Rules, we have fulfilled the first article of the 119th, now we vote on each side separately, of those who have appointed a committee to vote on the second reading again. There's no law. Tell me, what are you going to do with the changes you've made because of the non-confirmation? They're not in the text right now. Request: Follow procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u208	Thank you. Colleagues, we've heard the position of all factions, the position of the committee. The position of the committee is that we are these amendments, which are submitted to the second reading, so that we can go through them. And I'm asking the representative of the Committee of the Lions right now, read those papers, I'm stressing, except for those that have been confirmed, except for those that have been confirmed. And I'm asking you to do it effectively and quickly, and I'm asking everyone to stay put. Please, Leo Theophilovich, read the papers quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u209	Yes. Edits that are rejected by the committee. Number 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u210	Forty - nine, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u211	So, look, we're, like, right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u212	Colleagues, 49. Who wants to take 49 to the right? 49th. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u213	Colleagues! We've just been handed down the findings of the General Legal Authority. This law is contrary to the Constitution! Read the conclusion of the legal system. Now let's do the repairs. What's going on here? In fact, we're offered to destroy the system when cheap electricity from nuclear power and hydropower was mixed with expensive thermal energy before. And that's what all consumers got as an average price. Now we're offered cheap nuclear and hydro power, and they have the right directly to buy businesses that have direct contracts. And 42 million citizens of Ukraine will have to buy exclusively expensive heat! That's why we're proposing this amendment. Consider it so that the issue is settled. Both populations and businesses must have equal access!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u214	Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u215	So I want to tell you again what we've all agreed on. And Mr. Sobolev also spoke for it. What are some of the corrections that were submitted to the second reading. A second reading was given. And they were rejected. A number of rights were rejected before re-reading. They have no numbering from the first to the fiftieth to the hundredth. They're on their way. The changes to the second read are given in the general table. So they have number ten, twenty - five, but not the first. So, of these negatives that we didn't accept, there's the number 49. So this is a rejected amendment that was re-readed for the second reading. So I suggest, if there's an offer to count 49 revisions, let's take the word and speak. The next revision will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u216	I want to remind you, this is a procedure for re-reading the second reading, not the second reading. So there's an offer of 49 revisions to support. The committee turned her down. Who supports the 49 amendments that the committee has rejected, please vote. [[13:44:44]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next up, Lev Theophilovich. Lev Theophilovich, next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u217	The next amendment, which is given to the second reading and rejected, is 53.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u218	Who's 53? [[B in m in s a l in]] 53 people don't want to come forward. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u219	65 readjustment rejected, given.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u220	Is there anyone who's supposed to be on the 65th floor? 65th Amendment, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u221	70th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u222	70th, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I want to say that this bill is a sequel to Rotterdam Plus. Today, there is a British energy model in Ukraine that takes into account all the specificities of the Ukrainian energy system. In fact, we have monopolized atomic energy, hydro, heat. This market allows you to take into account the low price of nuclear power, the low price of hydropower, and the highest price of heat, as well as the price of heat. And this is where the market works, no doubt about it. Then the average price is produced and sold to all consumers through the cloud. What do they want to do now? They want the cheapest nuclear power through intermediaries to direct their businesses and to gain huge profits there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u224	Thank you. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u225	It's because people are going to raise the price of electricity. The question is, who's going to issue the permit? Who will be the middleman between the nuclear power company and the people? In addition, this law prohibits people from buying electricity directly from generating companies. Only through corrupt intermediaries. You can't do that. It's a law that destroys the energy plant. Don't vote for him. And I'm asking you to do this for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u226	So it's a confirmation of 70 amendments that were rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. Please. She was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:47:41]] For-48 48. The decision is not made. Next up, Lev Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u227	Next line is 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u228	None. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u229	Next 98th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u230	98th. 98th, Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u231	Dear Ukrainians, what's going on now? State regulation in the price of electricity is being undermined. I want you all to hear it now. Now in this room, they're trying to use the slogans as an introduction of such a pseudodorian to make a monopoly price for which you're all. You're all gonna pay. Today, some signatures appear to support the European taps of such a vector. It's all a lie. Today, there is one desire to create a monopoly market and to take advantage of it. We already have a very bad example when the gas market was created under the same terms. Dear Ukrainians, you felt this gas market on your skin, as it were, because of a serious increase in the cost of gas. What's more, they went on, they tried to stop. Make you pay for the hook-up. The same methods will be applied here. I ask you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u232	98 lacquers. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:49:27]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next up, Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u233	The next one is 136. So it's 95, the author is Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u234	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u235	Dear friends! There is no single model of energy in the European Union or in the world. For us, it was worked together with a world, actually, intellectual thought, along with Great Britain, a working model. Now you're going to destroy it, and you're going to go back to the problems that were before 2000: barter -- once, intermediaries that didn't count money to state companies -- two, three -- completely lawless people who won't have the opportunity to buy electricity. It's not a market. In addition, for small businesses, the law provides for the re-enactment of dragon’s wages for connecting to the power grids. And there's also the same subscription, but now it's not for joining the gas networks, it's for joining the power grids. And I want to thank those 48 deputies who don't go into this conspiracy that don't support this corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u236	A representative of the committee makes a remark that the presentation is not essentially an amendment. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u237	I want to conclude and say that the 48 national MPs who vote against this disgrace, this law, these are the real national MPs who are accountable to their constituents. And besides, we have this plan, in Fatherland, if this bill is voted out, we're going to put a press release in every apartment that voted for this law, and then people will know who's responsible for Rotterdam Plus and for all the consequences of increasing the electricity tariffs that will come after.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u238	Thank you. Please, Mr. Lev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u239	I wanted to say that the famous Rotterdam Plus, unfortunately, is only possible in today's system that exists, in a system where we have a corrupt regulator, when we have a monopoly energy company that buys all the electricity, no matter how much it's produced, and what corruption in production is built. And actually, the adoption of the law that we're considering today will end up with Rotterdam Plus and similar different schemes, because it's essentially not going to have any, because every manufacturer has to produce electricity the most efficient way to sell it cheaply and find their consumer. If you put rotters and other transformers there and everything else, then this electricity is going to be "gold" and you're never going to sell it, that's what the electricity market is all about. And I'm going to ask, if there's any comment on the revisions, vote, talk about the substance of the amendment. Let's have a professional discussion, not a professional discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u240	Anyone supporting amendment 95, which was rejected by the committee, please vote. She was rejected by the committee. [[13:53:26]] For-51 The decision is not made. Leo Theophilic, do you have any idea how many of these lines there are? Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u241	Next issue 136, by Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u242	Don't insist. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u243	140 lashes, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u244	140th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u245	Dear friends, today, when the energy market is operating in a British model, we have state regulation of electricity prices, including for state-owned enterprises. We're set up, so the price of nuclear power, the price of hydroelectric power, and the state is controlling that the profitability is not higher than that which is smart, and which will not be too expensive to raise electricity tariffs. This law is now being taken down by all state regulation, and that means that the mediator who will be between the atomic generation and the consumer will be able to set any price for, including the population that will not be checked, no one will be controlled, analyzed, that means a total return on the purchase to unknown intermediaries to set the price on state atomic and hydro power. It'll lead to something.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u246	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u247	This will lead to a total increase in electricity for Ukrainian citizens, and the state will not be able to do so anymore, because there will be no way of knowing where the ambulances are going to work, which will also make a difference between the real cost and the cost of nuclear power, and because they will power people with multiple excesses, as well as gas. I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u248	136 revisions. 136th, I called Lev Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u249	It's in the first reading, it's not in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u250	136 amendments, which support 136 amendments, were rejected by the committee. [[13:56:14]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next up, Leo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u251	140th and. 140th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u252	Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! Sobolje, Fatherland. Now we're going to vote on a key amendment that all households, all those who enter a new apartment or apartment or one-person, whether it's big or small. What are we talking about? This law now seeks to legitimize the so - called payment for joining the power grid. To understand what you're talking about, you put in the power grids, you bought a transformer, and then whoever you're joining is paying you for buying and paying for all this, you're still joining it. I think it's a key norm that's been passed in the Gas Market Act and now they're setting up a subscription, it's the same norm that's going to destroy entrepreneurship and the ability to run new households in Ukraine. A request to exclude this rule from the law and to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u254	Those who support Amendment 140 have rejected it, please vote. [[13:57:54]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Next up, Lev Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u255	The next 146 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u256	146. None. Next what?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u257	After 146th, 150th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u258	150th. 150th, who? Who's the author? 146th, who's the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u259	Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u260	Turn on the microphone. But one minute, one minute, one minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u261	Dear friends, we are also under obligation to impose certain approvals under the Rules. I wanted to. We've got a bill that's counted by the committee, that's the 25th amendment of the People's Deputies of Connonenko. We think it can't be counted as a committee. Read all of this 25 revision, and it tells us what is allowed to clear the electricity market, the system of accounts through authorized banks, which takes into account the mutual financial requirements and obligations of market participants. This is a straight barter, this is what we talked about. This is Connon's 25 on the barter, which is supported by the committee, which is even weird. And that's why we want to put this right here for confirmation. Please put it to the vote. I want to see who supports the barter in the power system in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u262	The supporter of amendment 136 — the committee rejected it — please vote. [[13:59:54]] For-72 72. The decision is not taken. Next up, Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u263	146th. Not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u264	Don't insist. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u265	150th, Timoshenko. Not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u266	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u267	157th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u268	Are you insisting? 150th. But please speak on the right hand side, speak on the right hand side, 150. Turn on the Soboljevo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u269	Sobolje, Fatherland. This is a revision that determines exactly what the methodology is going to be for calculating the price of electricity. What is proposed in this law is actually to give cheap electricity only to those who have either direct contracts or who are intermediaries in this market. This is the system that was broken in 2000 when the country suffered from barter and vortex disconnections. And that's when we switched to a completely new energy system. We took out all the middlemen, set up a single system, and removed corruption. This is the key right that prevents people from direct electricity, and those who have direct contracts or intermediaries from buying cheap electricity. Therefore, we ask that this method of billing be supported and that it offers a fair price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u270	The 150 - year - old committee who supported the amendment rejected it, please vote. And I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] 146th. The 146th who supports it, yes. 146th. [[14:01:54]] For-76 The decision is not made. Next up, Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u271	If 146's, then 150's.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u272	Yvchenko, 150th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u273	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want to address each and every one of you. Look. Please read the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. Especially that paper we were talking about. Think about it! Consider what will be the opening of current special - regime accounts in banking institutions. The rules of operation of this special regime will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, i.e. without the consent of the owner of the funds that we have at our expense, there will be mutual savings, there will be funds for our own reasoning, which is contrary to both the Civil Code and the Constitution of Ukraine. Colleagues, please study the laws. This law does not meet the requirements of business today, especially housing and utilities. Today, it will lead to a monopoly when large corporations buy cheap electricity and sell it to consumers. Colleagues, this is directly going to affect.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u274	Colleagues, per minute, please. I'm sorry, we're going to be working with this technique for 30 seconds now. You won't, try to come in in a minute. Please come in in a minute. Leo Theophilic, what was the readjustment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u275	It was 150.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u276	Who supports the 150th amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:03:52]] For-42 Colleagues, there is a consideration of the bill. Let's finish. Let's take a break. Let's finish up and take a break. Review, where's the document? Please, colleagues. Now I want to make a point: there are still about twenty left-wings left-overs. I ask Lev Theophilic to name the following. Let me call it. 171 is rejected. Don't insist. 174th. 174th. Don't insist. 174th. Who? Tymoshenko, 174th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u277	171. We insist on 171, which, by the way, is rejected. I would like to thank now, first of all, 76 members of the Supreme Council, who have taken the position of the people of Ukraine, who have taken the position of citizens. I would like to emphasize once again that a bill that is adopted if it is adopted without 171 amendments, including, will allow unknown market entities to be defined on a corrupt basis by someone who works without a license, to determine the price at which the nuclear and hydro power will be sold to people. Do you understand what this is about? You're practically from the government, from the state study of this situation, and from the protection of people, you're handing it all over to a bunch of crooks. I ask you to make 171 amendments and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u278	Whoever supports amendment 171, the committee rejected it, please vote. [[14:05:54]] Z-71 The decision is not made. Next up is 174th. Now. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, those who haven't applied, you can scream, scream, scream, you won't get away with it. We need to work on the laws, Your Honor. So as the author of this amendment, I propose to resolve the situation of the so-called supply of energy brokers. Those who produce nothing have absolutely nothing, no power, but will have the opportunity to buy nuclear and hydropower cheaply and continue to resell it. Our offer. To make it clear that if you are not a manufacturer, you have no right to be a mediator. Only the manufacturer has the right to continue selling electricity. And that's why we're proposing that the licensing conditions be clearly confirmed by a regulator that will determine that there are no intermediaries who don't have any funds on the market, and then they don't have any responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u280	Those who support amendment 174 have been rejected by the committee, please vote. [[14:07:31]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 176, don't insist. 244th. 176th, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u281	Dear friends! What's going on in the room is out of the question. Because the energy mafia has already killed its majority here, it has already been paid and overpaid to all those who will vote for it. And today, in addition to 76 deputies, no one cares what happens to the fate of the people who will give electricity three ways. And what's more, they're trying to do this kind of tricky technology right now when they call it the amendment, and that's what Mr. Paris is doing so that we don't have the ability to quickly find this amendment and react. Therefore, we ask that we do what is prescribed in the Rules. And give us the opportunity to find and defend the rights. And this is regulation 176 on the prohibition of mediation on a corrupt basis. Give mediation only to manufacturers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u282	176 axles. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:09:08]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'm approached by factions with very strict voting requirements. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm with your permission, colleagues. In fact, it's not even the right thing to do. I'm begging you now. One minute, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, let's put our emotions to rest and stop the political rally in this room. Let us adopt such an important bill that will put an end to mafia devices in this field. This was supported by our European partners, and they demand it from us. Let's do this and not give one political power a chance to just pry on this issue. We vote that we cannot be held hostage to their cheap political technologies. Let's get rid of this political shelling. Let's vote and work!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u284	Please, Peter Dusty Block, Arthur Gerasimov, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we see attempts by certain factions to repeat the Tuesday scenario when an overwhelming part of the judicial reform was lifted. And when they say that we don't touch citizens on Tuesday, and we didn't discuss the issue of citizens there, let's just remember that they didn't give our citizens the right to refer to the Constitutional Court, they were the ones who opposed the public transparency of the Constitutional Court. So I ask you now to put this question to a vote, not to undermine the reform that our European partners are expecting from us. Please put it to the vote. The Peter Dusty Block supports the vote as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u286	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u287	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When I hear talk about the energy mafia, I suggest you go out and stop 10 people on the street and ask who's the gas princess? And you're going to be told 10 out of 10 that this is "Moscow Zoo." And so when you talk about the energy mafia, we remember this mafia, the only company in the U.S. The U.S. court ruling, along with Lazarenko, brought a gas princess out of Ukraine in 1996, 200 million dollars. Return that money and then confirm that you are fighting corruption. Until the money is returned, you and a representative of the energy mafia, corruption, and offshore.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u288	From Fatherland, Sobolev. Sergei Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u289	Well, we've all heard the flaming things of those who are kept in Ahmtova. Return the money to Ahmetov, it's not far from here, go back to the edifice sector and return everything Ahmethov paid for. Oh, actually. On what basis do you give your word to those who have no authority? You have no right to do this. There are 19 rights left that we have to go through.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u290	There's an extra table that defines this directly. So all those in Ahmeta's custody, I suggest you get the money out and give it to Ahmet. I suggest we do this to both the government officials and all those who took this money in this room. Our proposal is as follows. There are three key things, this connection, which is anti-constitutional, anti-national. It's a question of the only price for electricity and it's a question of the regulator who has the right to sell. This is defined in the following 19 revisions. They're coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u291	I want to remind you that I have the right as Head at any stage to consult with the heads of factions, and now I'm doing it. Please, Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u292	We're acting solely for the procedure. This law has been virtually broken because of the lack of procedure, Mr. Head. Therefore, I ask you to stand guard over procedures and regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-13-m0.u293	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to put three factions to the vote so we can go to the vote. I would like to stress that I will put it to a vote that supports the proposal to move to a vote that supports the proposal of three factions, please vote. Who supports the proposal of three factions, please vote. [[14:14:12]] For 221 Colleagues, we're not there yet. I'll put it to the vote again. Anyone who supports the proposal to proceed to the vote now, please vote. Anyone who supports the proposal, please vote, please support the transition to a vote. Please vote. [[14:14:42]] For 243 243 is Parliament's decision. And I'm voting on the draft Electricity Market Act (4493) in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. [[14:15:11]] For 277 277 – yes. Decision taken. It's a legal decision. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Please all arrive at 4 p.m. in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
