ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. As long as the MPs enter the hall, may I have your attention? Today, colleagues, the birthday of director and public activist Sentsova. And I invite Irina Heratchenko to say, please, one minute from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Oleg Sentsov, one of the dozens of patriots and activists held in Russian prisons by Russian occupation authorities. Oleg Senzova is only one fault before Russia, that he is a Ukrainian and a patriot. He did not fight on a foreign land, he never killed anyone, and in the occupied Putin Crimea, two young children, an elderly mother, await him. For Oleg today, the Ukrainian authorities, diplomats, all men of goodwill, have been fighting for him for three years. And today the summit "Ukraine – EU" opens in Kiev. I think I can now say that this is the appeal of the entire Ukrainian Parliament to our European friends and partners who are demanding to do the same to Ukraine and to demand Putin’s release of the immediate Oleg Sensov, as well as all his colleagues who are currently in prison. We're talking to European partners. Dear colleagues, human rights -- above all! For three years, Ukrainian citizens have been illegally detained in Russian prisons and occupied territories. We call on the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u3	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u4	We call on the European Union to immediately impose sanctions on all those people who are Russians on the List of Saints and who are transferred by the Ukrainian authorities to the European Union. All the Ethiopians, the judges, all the Russian forces who are illegally involved in the maintenance of Ukrainian citizens. We ask the European Union to join immediately in our fight for Oleg, for Alexander Kolchenk, for our colleague Suschenka, for dozens of Crimean Tatars, for hundreds of Ukrainians held in occupied territories. Freedom to the Shadows! Freedom to all Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u5	Thank you. So, colleagues, I see we can already register. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. [[10:04:39]] Number of deputies registered in the hall, 357. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Today is the birthday of a number of our colleagues. To Andrija Volodymyrovich Galchenka, welcome him. [[Applause]] At Peter Paulovich Sabashuk, we welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] At Yuri Igorovich Solovya’s birthday Welcome. On Petra Vasilovich Jurčičina's birthday. Welcome. And Anton Volodymyrovich Yatzenka. Welcome. [[Applause]] And let's move on to the agenda. Colleagues, I'll tell you in two words the logic of today. So at the beginning of our discussion, as foreseen in the weekly plan, this is the question of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But before that, we will consider the decree on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council, as well as the continuation of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After that, we will have important budget issues, we will have an important issue of pension reform, and we will have a cybersecurity issue. At five o'clock in any circumstances, colleagues, under any circumstances, we are moving on to the issue of consenting to criminal liability, arrest and arrest of the Ukrainian National Deputy. We don't have the right to take this question any other day, and so at 5 p.m., at 5 p.m., under any circumstances, we have to get to the point. You remember from the day before yesterday, it's about an hour's work, and we're going to be able to completely get between 5th and 6th, and we're going to be able to think about this. If we're going to have difficult questions, I'm going to go out again with the initiative to cancel the break between 12.00 and 12.30, and I'm going to go out with the initiative to continue our meeting until 9 p.m. I'm asking the MPs to talk to each other about these initiatives, think about them, and ask them to support these initiatives during work and consideration. So we move on to the first draft decree on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (6631). And, colleagues, I'm asking you to focus now and support the consideration of the reduced procedure. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and to support the review of the calendar plan with a reduced procedure. You're ready, aren't you? So, colleagues, I'm putting the motion to a vote, and I'm going to consider a short-term draft Decision on a calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we are carefully voting in favour of a reduced procedure, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:08:41]] For 132 Once again, colleagues, this is a question of a calendar plan, which is a technical one that doesn't need a large-scale discussion. Therefore, I am asked to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, now I'm going to put the vote again, and I'm asking for your support. So I can count on support? I ask the question again, I ask once again the issue of the short-term draft Decision on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 6631). I ask everyone to support this proposal. Please vote, please support, please support, vote. [[10:09:48]] For-140. Colleagues, I'm going to put a motion for a vote again, if she doesn't get a vote, we're going to go over the matter in full. Everyone sees the order of the day, everyone sees the list of questions that stand in the order of the day. If the hall is confident that we will review the calendar plan for an hour, we will consider an hour. Ready to vote? So I'm voting once again on the proposal for a review of Project Decree 6631 on a reduced procedure. I ask everyone to be very supportive, and I ask you to vote, otherwise we may simply have a complete breakdown in today's agenda with all the questions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, we support. Please vote. [[10:11:43]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u6	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! For the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Decree (registration number 6631) on a calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, in accordance with the decision of the Committee of 21 June this year. The draft calendar plan proposes to start the plenary sessions of the seventh session of the eighth call on September 5, 2017, on February 2, 2018. During the session, 10 weeks are allocated to the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council, committees, commissions, factions, 7 weeks, 5 weeks to work with the electorate, 10 hours to work with the Government. During the preparation of the draft calendar plan for the seventh session to create favourable conditions for more rational use of working time, the International Exchange Plan of the Supreme Council for 2017 is taken into account. In particular, the schedule for the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 9 to 13 October, the Jubilee 50th General Assembly of PACES from 28 to 30 November. Dates of consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft State Budget Act for the following year. As well as the holidays, nonworking days, religious festivals, provided for in article 73 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine. I'm informing you that the draft calendar plan was sent to MP factions, groups, as well as to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee decided to submit a draft calendar plan for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It defines the following order: a week from 30.10 to 30.11 – work on committees, commissions, factions, groups; week from 6.11 to 10.11 – plenary week; week from 13.11 to 17.11 – plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u7	How much? 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u8	From 13.11 to 17.11 – Plenary week; From 20.11 to 24 November – work on committees, commissions, factions, groups; November 27 to December 1 – work with voters. I know that there was some discussion among the leaders of the MP factions about possible changes in the project, if they were to be heard from the voice and supported by the floor, the committee was ready at.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I can read out what changes are being proposed. Colleagues, may I have your attention? Because then there's a lot of questions during the vote. You know, when we prepare a calendar plan, we take into account the work of our delegations in PARJA and other international organizations so that we don't impose plenary meetings and meetings on our international organizations. That's why there's a first offer. In view of the need for a committee of the Supreme Council at the beginning of the seventh session to consider a number of urgent drafts at its meetings, prepare them for consideration in the session room, and consider planning its further legislative activities, the proposal to provide for Wednesday, September 6, the work of the National Committees in committees and factions. Next offer. Since the sixth plenary session of the EU Parliamentary Assembly will be held in Kiev from October 30th to November 1st, I invite you to work on committees and factions for the week of October 30th to November 3, and the week of November 7th to 10th, we will have two weeks in a row so that we can fully accept the EU Parliamentary Assembly. This is the second proposal for a calendar plan. And the third offer. Colleagues, so that from 3 to 5 January 2018, the work would be with voters for national deputies, and from 9 to 12 January to work as deputies on committees, commissions and factions, and then we would have two consecutive weeks of plenary in January. Such suggestions are proposed for the calendar plan. And I'm asking you to do a two-in-a-two-in against it for discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u10	Please, Ruslan Knyazevich of the Petra Prashenko Block, your position. Please, Mr. Dubnevich! Russian Knyazevich microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u11	Thank you. The faction supports these proposals. I just want to say that I have come to realize that the chairman of the committee has already corrected the proposal that came out of the first appendix, namely, somehow the unforeseeable week of work in general from 20 to 24.11. I've just heard it says it's going to be a week's work on the committees. Similarly, we support a week of committee work from 9 to 13.01.2018. Thus, the faction will fully support the comments made in the rostrum of Parliament by the chairman of the committee and the head of the Supreme Council. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask very carefully, yes, there is now a statement of the position of Mr. Peter Prashenko's Block, which supports the voting for the calendar plan, with all the amendments made by the Chief of the Supreme Council, as well as the First Deputy Regulatory Committee. Please, from the People's Front, the Yemeni national MP from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u13	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, we only have 64 pages of drafts today, 64 pages of fine laws to be passed today. And, well, I highly doubt that we have enough time today to discuss laws that have 5,000 rights to adopt pension reform and we have the last week of work today. Dear colleagues, Madam Head, I am asking you that today we have to ask questions about how to proceed with our parliamentary meetings until we consider those bills that are in the session room today, which do not require further deliberation on the committees, this is also a medical reform, this is also a pension reform, this is also an election code, this is also the Constitutional Court Act. This Parliament has no right to go on vacation without making a positive decision about these two bills that are common to our nation. I'm asking you to ask this question about the continuation of our session until all of these two issues are resolved for next week. I mean, next week we're going to have a work and I'm asking Parliament and the House, and the National Deputies, and I'm going to remind you that you've been chosen by the electorate to work in this room and vote for the bill and not to go on vacation, and I'm asking you to support this decision and continue the work of our session room until all the decisions are made in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u14	Thank you. I just want to remind you that the next issue in the agenda is the question of the continuation of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. This is the next question, we're just going to have to vote. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Me, too. Oh, and Gusak, I'm sorry. One minute. Two minutes, Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u15	Honourable Ukrainians, honourable colleagues, honourable Head, there are only 10 weeks of plenary meetings in this calendar plan, while there are dozens of important social and economic laws in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, laws to support the displaced, to rebuild housing, to improve the lives of our pensioners, to help our disabled, which the Supreme Council simply does not consider, because there is no time. So I could not understand why the number of plenary weeks could not be increased. The other one. It seems a little unclear that the Ukrainian Parliament should adjust its work to the schedule of various international organizations. Participation in international organisations is important, but there is a ministry of foreign affairs in Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Parliament has to work primarily for the people of Ukraine and draw its schedule according to the interests of the people of Ukraine. But we understand that Parliament has to work, that the plan, even though some plan, is imperfect, there should be work. And that's why our faction will support this project of the calendar plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u16	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. And I want to make one simple point: when we set up a plenary session during the work of our parliamentary delegations, especially in South Africa, we have a very difficult situation in the room. So, I think it's the right decision that we, on the basis of regulations, have two weeks of plenary per month, we're still trying to correct them so that they don't impose on Parliamentary Assembly meetings. I think it's a wise and right decision. And so I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and support this draft decision. So please take jobs, please go in and take jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call (No. 6631), as amended, which I announced from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the transcript. I would like to vote in favour of the committee's proposal as a whole. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:23:50]] For 254 Decision taken. Colleagues, we have the next draft of the decision to continue the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the short procedure for the continuation of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:24:38]] For-162 Decision taken. So, honourable national MPs, in view of the importance of the tasks that lie ahead of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the need at any time and time to come together to make the important decisions that we can make on a day-to-day basis, I offer. First, proceed with the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call until September 5, 2017. Second, to establish that with a view to resolving the situation in Ukraine and the need for adoption in connection with this Supreme Council of Ukraine, the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are convened as required by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this case is immediately, but not later than three days before the plenary meeting, to inform the Ukrainian national deputies of the time and place of such a plenary meeting. Four. Ukraine’s Supreme Council apparatus to ensure the implementation of the measures necessary to hold such plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a proposal, and I'm asking you to discuss it, and I'm asking you to do a recording: two in, two in, and no. Please, Shinkovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, it is perfectly true and wise that we need to continue our work. And you and I have a lot of bills that we should definitely consider, so maybe we shouldn't continue the session and invite us, the national MPs, in some cases, or maybe we should plan a plenary week and not just one. Today we have a question in our second reading: the distribution of land outside the settlements, and at Hmelničina I have in the district village heads asking me to adopt this bill. We've had a year of bills on feeding children in school, and if we had adopted those bills, it would have been possible to build a different job from September 1st. And a lot of other things we have to accept. Therefore, we support clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u18	Thank you. If there's such a requirement, colleagues, let me make a separate proposal for next week to be a plenary. If there is such a requirement, let us make a proposal, vote to be plenary for that week. Sumar Victoria Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, it is obvious that there are so many bills that need consideration today. I can't remember a day when we went from the beginning to the end of the day. This means that a whole series of very important initiatives for the country are just put in a long box. And these summer breaks, well, you probably have to find another position in Ukraine that can afford to be on vacations for a month and a half, especially in a war country, especially in a country where the representative body is supposed to be in a situation. take responsibility for the situation in the country. Obviously, the situation can get worse at any time, obviously, that the Ukrainian Parliament has to meet right away whenever it is needed. So this is definitely the right decision. The People's Front faction will support it. The session cannot be closed. And we need to keep working, and we need to be honest about this to Ukrainian citizens, who are doing Ukrainian national MPs today. We cannot achieve a level of trust in Parliament, which, unfortunately, leaves much better. This situation can only be changed directly by the work, the work, and the committees, and the results in the form of specific bills for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u20	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Amelchenko Vassil gives the word to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our naive radio audiences and TV viewers, listening to these solo songs, how the MPs want to work, how many pressing problems they haven't solved, how they all want to give up vacations, how they want to leave the Bahamas, how they want to work from the Canary -- everything for the people. Do you think there are so many naive people who believe your lies? Don't be silly. There are no stupid Ukrainians. In 26 years, your lie has not been believed by anyone but the Lighthouse and the Radical Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] These, men of honor, all who laugh, they laugh at you. Because they are used to lying, robbing, and laughing. And I'll tell you the truth. Why do they want to continue the session? President Poshenko drew giant plans for usurping power. They do not have time to run codes that will allow them to monopolize their influence on the judicial branch of power. They are not in a position to pass the Constitutional Court Act, which will allow the President to establish three judges of the Constitutional Court, and they are not in a position to adopt a number of other laws to allow full power in the country. The Radical Party team is the only one standing in this parliament against usurpation against abuse. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council has legal and constitutional instruments when it is necessary to convene an emergency session to address urgent problems. Dear colleagues, I have some advice for you. You're sitting in this rotten political swamp! Go to the fresh air, go to the people, not the Canary, not the Bahamas, but the Ukrainian people! They want to see you and they want to hold your throat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u22	From the Opposition Block, Gusak Volodymyr passes the word Papiev. Please, Papiev. Turn on the microphone. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u23	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It's now under consideration the draft resolution on the continuation of the session. The opposition block at the faction meeting decided to support this decision. But in order for it not to be as formal as in previous years, we need to make changes to the calendar plan at the same time. Let us be clear and clear when we have plenary weeks. For today there are urgent laws that are necessary for us to consider. Besides, Mr. Head, I'm addressing you. Today, fortunately, there are other laws in Ukraine such as the Labour Code, the Ukrainian Vacation Act, the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act. And I'm going to ask you right now to take special control of the issue of marking Ukrainian national deputies. Because if we now decide to continue the session, it says that the committees have to stabilize the Ukrainian people's deputies. And just so it's not like last year, a deputy in Seychelles, Cyprus and others, and he's painted with eights, and he's paid a salary from the state budget. So let's not lie to people, let's make changes to the calendar plan, assign plenary weeks, four plenary weeks, and in a normal way we'll adopt those laws, we'll have about 5,000 laws today awaiting the citizens of Ukraine that have been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose not to support anti-national pension reform, anti-national medical reform. Let's, let's have time, let's talk about them, let's not vote in haste, but let's not lie to people. If we decide to continue the session, we will assign plenary weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u24	Thank you. The discussion is over. More Fatherland, Sobolev. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. In two minutes, the vote will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u25	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction will support the continuation and non-closure of the session on only one condition. We think we have two choices. Option one is next week's sessional, and we listen to the suggestions made by the Chief of the Supreme Council. But the second option is that we have to define a clear list of issues that we go to work with either weekly or in a week. That's what our faction offers. Because if there's no question in this list of issues again that fills the state's budget that actually protects our citizens, it's going to be worse for people than for this Supreme Council to work extra. So let's give the task force a quick look, let's do a list of the issues that are being asked, and let's put this as a calendar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u26	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. During the discussion, a suggestion was made that we make a week from 7 to 21 July in plenary sessions to do so, and I will put it after the vote. First we vote on the proposal that was made and then we vote on the plenary week. It's a deal, isn't it? So I'm the first to put to the vote a draft decree on the continuation of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. This is my proposal, please back her up, please vote her out. Voting colleagues, please support. [[10:35:43]] For 215 I'll be back. Please take up your jobs. This does not require a return, for it is the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm putting once again to the vote the question of the continuation of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[10:36:25]] For 210 Colleagues, I'm going to put this motion to a vote for the third time, and I'm going to ask everyone to vote responsibly. I'm making the last, third-time proposal to continue the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:37:01]] For 215 Offer. The factions, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 91, "National Front" – 64, "Resistance Block" – 10, "self-help" – 6, Radical Party Lachka – 1, "Fathership" – 10, "will of the people" – 2, "Resurrection Party" – 8. The offer did not find support in the hall. I, my colleagues, now want to read that there's been a request for a break from two factions of Parliament: the Fatherland faction and the Self-Help faction. While both factions want to take a real break, not replace it with a performance. And that's why I'm now inviting all the heads and representatives of factions to my meeting. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. I ask all the representatives and heads of factions to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at 11:05, please be in the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u27	I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u28	Please, one minute from the two factions, Egor Sobolev and let's move on to the agenda. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u29	I want to explain what's going on in Parliament. Most of the national deputies met today to share taxpayers ’ money. Another task is to put the Anti-Corruption Bureau on hold, and to increase the control of the Constitutional Court, which has long been under great control. Self-help for the support of the Fatherland faction and other MPs is proposing to begin with the removal of the inviolability. Around Parliament are the people who elected us here, and they say, until you stand before the laws that matter? To begin with the removal of the immunity from Mr. Dobkin, there is already the submission of the Attorney General, is the decision of the Committee of the Rules. Continue adopting the Law on Limitations of Inviolability and Approval of the Anticorruption Court Act, where all national deputies will be able to find true justice, not an agreement. This is our position, we suggest that Parliament follow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u30	So, colleagues, during the break, we held a meeting with the factions' heads, and we agreed, attention, colleagues, that today we would propose to cancel the break 12-12:30 and continue our work until 9 p.m. It's totally acceptable, it's completely within the limits of our decision, and 9 o'clock to be able to consider both the budget and pension reform, and if the necessary documents are provided, medical reform. Colleagues, these are the proposals I'm going to put to the vote. And there's a huge request to the right-wing authors to minimize those changes that don't have the prospect of taking any minutes of our time while we're working. So let's move on to the next chapter of our work. I ask you to prepare for the vote. We've got a day-to-day session now. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize and I'm asking you to proceed to the vote now. Integrating into the agenda of the session, that's 8 questions per minute, that's 8 minutes. Then the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So I'm proposing that the draft Law amending some of the public disclosure legislation on public funding and the use of international technical assistance (6674) should be included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:27:38]] For-174 Next: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Public Information on Public Finance and the Use of International Technical Assistance (6675). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. [[11:28:14]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, the following: 6630 and 6631. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the identification of a person for the formulation, issuance, exchange, invalidation and destruction of documents confirming the nationality of Ukraine certify a person or his or her special status. Colleagues, security and defence are a very important issue. I'm asking you very much. There's 6630, there's 6631. Please support, vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. [[11:29:12]] For 226 Decision taken. Next: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to counter threats to national security in the information field (6688). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:29:46]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Act on Amendments to Chapter 10 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for non-application of fines for non-time registration of tax and excise notes as a result of unauthorized interference with computer networks of taxpayers). It's also a matter of cybersecurity. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[11:30:31]] For 299 Decision taken. The following is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from foreign employment brokerage (6275). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:31:06]] For 236 Decision taken. Wait. Next: 6243 is a draft Act amending article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to conform to international standards). 6243. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:31:47]] For 288 Decision taken. The following: 6673 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to regulate certain phytosanitary procedures. 6673 is just an order of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:32:24]] For 273 Decision taken. And, colleagues, at first there were not enough just people in the hall, they met. So I'm going to reintegrate the first two laws into the agenda of the day session, except for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'll bet 6674. 6674 is a draft law. 6674 Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, except for the inclusion of the day session. [[Noise Nodes]] 6674, Presidential Bill, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[Noise Nodes]] [[11:33:22]] For 202 The decision is not taken. And the last one is 6675, a bill also submitted by the President, and I ask to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[11:33:48]] For the 220. Please, 30 seconds, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we've been explaining for a long time what's going on in the session room. Actually, this is what's going on. Each subject of the legislative initiative has the right to include his bill in the agenda. We have two bills tabled today by the President of Ukraine. And it's not about voting for these bills, it's about putting them in the agenda. If a faction that has already destroyed Tuesday wants to tear up Thursday, it may not then vote for these bills when they are being considered. But I'm going to the hall to vote for inclusion in the agenda. And then, not today, we're going to look at it essentially. Please vote in favour. And during the discussion, you'll say: a good bill, a bad bill. It's about inclusion! No, he's not today. This law is not being considered today; we simply include it in the order of the day. Keep your meetings open! Dear colleagues, it's about one faction that broke Tuesday, and now it's tearing down four of us for an hour. And it's not about reviewing the bill today, it's about getting into the agenda. Don't interrupt the Parliament's work! Sit down and do your job!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u32	So, colleagues, I'll be able to put the day into the agenda again. We are now moving on to the next agenda item: the draft Constitutional Court of Ukraine Act (No. 6427-d). And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. You. Knyazevich, please. Can he get out? All right, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On behalf of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, allow me to inform you that, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council, following the adoption of the bill on the basis of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, 587 amendments have been received accordingly from the right-holders of the legislative initiative included in the comparative table given to you and will be considered in the session room today. The committee created a working group, which, more specifically, worked for a week. We met every day with the participation of all interested parties — representatives of the Constitutional Court, representatives of other judicial institutions — to participate in all the factions, groups, and to reach common agreement on this bill. I'll remind you that the fate of this bill has lasted quite a while. That's the third time we've had today, we're trying to look into the entire session room in the second reading of the Constitutional Court Act. Sadly, the past failures were too great. A special consideration was made on April 11, when I had to sit as the head of the committee during the entire session, commenting on these rights that came from the law - enforcement bodies. But remember, then, sadly, the law was rejected. The same was true of the discussion during the first reading of the bill. Then, too, the session hall was not determined for the benefit of this reception; rather, it sent for a rereading of the committee’s first reading. And I have to tell you that the committee has worked quite productively at the rereading stage, which has allowed a large portion of the comments that have been made in the subject matter of the legislative initiative. So it was much easier for us now in the second reading, because the vast majority of the lines that we were looking at, and as in the session table, these are the adjustments that the committee and the session hall have already identified. And we've actually spent a lot of time on them, so we don't think it's appropriate to look at them in as much detail as it's stipulated in the law, because they have already created the legal position of the session hall. Instead, we suggest that, among the discussions that took place in the session room, we resolve a number of issues that we consider appropriate. First of all, we are prepared to remove the standard according to which the Constitutional Court had the right to clarify and change its legal position. We're going to delete this rule. Similarly, we specify a whole series of terms for the opening and holding of a competition for the functions of a Constitutional Court judge. Dear colleagues, I think that all of these things have been discussed in this bill without exception, and I would be very grateful if we could support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u34	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u35	No long discussion. Believe me, this is the third time we've had a discussion on the same issues, it's a fact that we don't allow real reforms in the queen of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine. Let's take this historic step, and from now on, in fact, we will allow millions of Ukrainians to get justice in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u36	Thank you. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that we've already discussed this bill, so I very much ask all right-wing authors to minimize their speeches. That's the deal, colleagues. We'll have a budget after that, and my appeal to everyone -- that's how we agreed on the faction heads meeting -- we're minimizing the revisions, and I hope that everyone will keep their word, their position. And I hope we can have a discussion within 40 minutes. And I ask you to prepare the authors for discussion. Here we go. Two o'clock, Scrum. Is it insisting? What's that? First? Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council has had a unique experience: the Supreme Council Committee has not taken all the amendments to the second reading into account, in fact, all the amendments. Correcting the spelling error is no, rejected; correcting the misapplicable term is rejected; one article contradicts the other — why correct? - Overruled. Imagine, this law renders the Constitutional Court's decision acceptable if four judges out of 18 voted for it. And this is in this bill, I want you to pay attention. Similarly, the text remained unchanged, the committee did not dare even in itself, in every word to correct the sacred text that had been sent from the President's Administration. I haven't seen such a disgrace in 10 years of work in the Supreme Council. In fact, we propose that the court be made up of a large chamber and a chamber not of the great chamber and the Senate. The committee’s meaning today is evident.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u38	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote amendment number one of the Odarchenka People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:41:41]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Next. 3rd, Capplin. Don't insist. Fourth, Scrum. Don't insist. He insists. 3rd, Capplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In the draft law, I ask that the words "in plenary meetings" be replaced accordingly by "in all, in accordance with the Rules, types of meetings" as appropriate. This revision from the standardization point should ensure that the relevant document is thin. And I insist on her voting in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u40	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting number three on the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:42:54]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 5th, Welcome. Don't insist. 6th, Welcome. Don't insist. 7th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 9th, Drevijanka. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u41	I'll call each one. 10th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 11th, Scrum. Don't insist. 12th, Spinov. Don't insist. 15th, Scrum. Don't insist. 16th, Welcome. Don't insist. What's that? 17, right? 17 repairs, Odarchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u42	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Yuri Odarchenko. Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, which took effect on 30 September 2016, established a new edition of article 153 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with this regulation, the organization and activities of the Constitutional Court, the status of judges, the grounds and order of appeal to the court, the procedure for handling cases and the enforcement of decisions of the court are determined by the Constitution of Ukraine and the law. Only the Constitution of Ukraine and the law! Therefore, there can be no rules. Why do all judges of Ukraine work according to the procedural codes adopted by the Supreme Council and the Constitutional Court can establish its own rules? I propose to remove the possibility of regulating the court's activities by regulation. Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u43	Vote number 17, please. [[11:44:49]] For-94 Your amendment is not supported. Next. 19th, Wooden. Don't insist. Palamarchuk, 20th. Don't insist. 21st, Janicki. Don't insist. 22nd, Odarchenko. Are you insisting? I can't see you. Thank you. 23rd, Cooper. Don't insist. Pantyhose, 24th. Don't insist. Janitsky, 25th. Don't insist. Spinov, 26th. Don't insist. He doesn't insist. Birdfowl, 28th. Don't insist. 29th, Welcome. Don't insist. Odarchenko, 30th. He insists. Please, Odarchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u44	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! We've all been fighting for the open court. When the law on the judiciary and the status of judges was passed, the key issue was that the community could come freely to open meetings, record them, and record them. But this law simply brings us back to the times of Kuchma. The court itself will determine who is to be put in session and who is not to be released. And it's going to be completely free in this decision. I propose that the same rules be laid down for the courts of general jurisdiction: all may be present for vacancies. Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u45	30 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[11:46:18]] For-100 100 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 31 repairs, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 32nd, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 33rd, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 34th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 35th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 36th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 37th. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u46	It's the owner's amendment, it's not yours. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u47	Now, one second. Now, now, one minute. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u48	I haven't gotten to her yet. I'm only announcing 37th. Now, now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u49	And you missed my 18th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u50	Don't yell, I'm not deaf, you know that. True, you've heard I'm not deaf. I'll tell you what. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u51	18th, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u52	Cooper. I just didn't see it because your deputies were there, you couldn't see it. Please, 18th. Kuprienka insists on all her designs. We'll give him his word at all times. 18th Amendment, Cooper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u53	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. The honourable national deputies, according to the law, the Basic Law of our State, which is called the Constitution, are clearly defined by what can be regulated by law. 148 articles – selection on competition principles, 148-1 – size of remuneration, 153 – order of organization and activities of the Constitutional Court. What is done in this law? This law distorts the Constitution, and the actual organization of the work of the court is proposed to be determined by an internal document, the Rules of the Constitutional Court. My amendment is to say, "Organization of the internal organization and economic activity of the court is governed by regulations," and then we will not violate the Constitution. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u54	18 amendments to the vote shall be made. [[11:48:49]] For-95 Your amendment is not supported. 37th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 38th, Scrum. Don't insist. 39th, which we have just reached, Mr. Odarchenko, is now your 39th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u55	Now, I've already announced 39th. I'll be right back with your 23rd. I'll be back, I hear you're all insisting. 39th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u56	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u57	I ask you not to interrupt the Council meeting, honor a colleague from Fatherland and give your word now, the 39th Amendment, to Mr. Odarchenk. And all those present in the rostrum, I ask you to pay attention. Dear colleagues, today is the last sessional day of work, the self-help faction that didn't go to work before that, boycotted this job, didn't do anything yet, and now it's tearing down the next vote. First. At 5 o'clock, we're taking off Dobkin's touch. And that's what the Self-Help faction does, which is in opposition with the Opposition Block in opposition. The other one. The Self-Help faction today is breaking down the review of pension reform. They may be provided with pensions that are available to Ukrainian pensioners. Third. The Self-Help faction today breaks down the review of the Constitutional Court Act. This faction takes place in the courts that it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u58	You're breaking the Rules! Madam Vice-President of the Supreme Council, you are in violation of the Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u59	Rules break your colleagues and violate them. The Self-Help faction is now breaking your colleagues' rules! Notice who is standing near this rostrum and breaking down the work. I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to return to the workplace. I ask you to return to your post as Head of the Supreme Council and put an end to the mess in the session room when the last day of Parliament's work today falls apart. I beg you, Your Honor colleague Odarchenko, I ask you to read your amendment. Don't insist on Odarchenko. Let's move on, buddy. The 23rd amendment of the people's deputy Kuprienka. Please, Kuprienka microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u60	Dear presiding officer, you first state the order in the hall and then give the floor to announce the amendments that may have a significant impact on the work of the highest, in fact, judicial authority of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u61	Mr. Kuprienko doesn't insist on correction. We're moving on, despite the mess of self-help. Amendment 34. Palamarchuk does not insist. 35th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 36th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 37th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 38th, Scrum. Don't insist. 39th, Timoshenko and Odarchenko. Don't insist. 40th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 41st, Spinov. Don't insist. 42nd, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 43rd, Schrum. Don't insist. 44th, Welcome. Don't insist. I don't have a problem with people with megaphones, we keep working. 45th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 46th, Scrum. Don't insist. 47th, Kiwalov. Don't insist. 48th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 49th, Cooper. He insists. Please, the microphone. Dear Mr. Kuprienko, in your faction in all good voices, good glands, I ask you to read your amendment so that we can all hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u62	You need to hear what I'm saying right now. We are considering in the session room the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This is the court that was consecrating the changes to the Janukovitch Constitution, this is the court that today wants to put in the position that it will perform all the demands of the President-in-Office, and it is precisely this court that must be the last guarantor, the last siege of the rule of law in this country. And look what's going on. My amendment refers to a specific rule of law, the law states that with a recognized level of competence. Nowhere in the law is it defined who this level of competence can determine. This is a rule that allows us to abuse judges in these positions. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u63	I am happy to make 49 amendments to the vote. Dear colleagues, please make up your mind. And I would also like to pay attention to how new faces behave in parliament, which on the last day of Parliament's work are simply torn apart. Vote. [[11:53:50]] For-44 No, I didn't. 50th Amendment, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 51st, Martovici. Don't insist. 52nd, Scrum. Don't insist. Ukraine’s national MP, who is now yelling at the megaphone, hung posters two days ago to get some attention. This is not the way to draw attention to one another, my dear fellow! 52 repairs, Schrum. Don't insist. 53rd, Siroid. He insists. Please, it's Syroid's bug.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u64	Thank you. Indeed, the working group that was formed to prepare the draft Law for the second reading was working. Indeed, arrangements were made, indeed, to improve the competition procedure, to improve the work of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, there were good intentions. But on the last night, all these amendments were rejected, I summed up, not in this room, not even in this room, not on this street. So perhaps the purpose of this process is not to improve the work of the Constitutional Court, but, as predicted, to make it more dependent and manual. Therefore, our amendments will mainly apply to the competition procedure, and I now insist on the vote on amendment 53, which refers to the criteria under which the Constitutional Court judges will be elected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u65	Thank you for explaining your correction. I want to put it to a vote right now and I want to draw the attention of all my colleagues, and I want to also turn to journalists and audiences, as today's room is divided into those who have the right to sound their correction, and those who have to do it under the heat and under the megaphones. That is why I am asking that all colleagues be respected and that every colleague be given the right to sound his correction in a normal situation! This is equality, this is respect for Parliament! And now the amendment, Madam Siroid's esteemed colleague, 53rd. Please be supportive. I'm in. [[11:56:00]] For-98 98 votes. Next MP. 54. Amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. I'm asking you to pay attention to what's going on. Yes, when we're told "those who are equal," we're excluded from microphones, other colleagues who have the same right to make corrections, they're not allowed to sound the amendments to the key Constitutional Court Act. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. And that's what parliamentary freaks do, which no one in society supports, so they're doing a mess here with the microphone. And now to Deputy Levchenk, I ask you to give my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u66	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District of Kiev. I made dozens of amendments to this law. But I'm not going to insist on any of these amendments, because we can't continue to work today, as if nothing was going on, to consider another anti-national Constitutional Court Act that wants to push. Everyone knows you're gonna push him out anyway. Everyone understands that Opoblok is going to knock, the People's Front is going to knock, the BP is going to knock, and you're going to push it. You can't keep working like nothing was going on. Yesterday this Parliament raped the country when most refused to bring to justice criminals known to the whole country. They didn't do anything, they didn't take away the inviolability, even after they voted in to bring them to justice, they wouldn't let them be arrested, and they'd run away at any time. How can I work on the amendments now? Is this what you always do? That's impossible. We demand to vote now in favour of limiting inviolability! We demand changes to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u67	Dear colleague Lewchenko spoke, but he does not insist. And now I'm not voting on this amendment. But he asked his colleague, Martovicki, to return to the 51st amendment. Please, microphone to the people's MP Martovicki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my amendment is aimed at removing the subjective assessment of recognition of the level of competence that can lead to corruption. So I propose in the first part of article 11 of the bill that the word "he's a lawyer with recognition of the level of competence" be deleted. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u69	51 amendments to the vote? You know, I'd like to ask my respectable colleague Chumak to honor me just as much as your colleague on the faction. I find it difficult to hold this meeting. Turn off the microphone or turn it on in your wife's kitchen! Take this megaphone off, please! The 51st amendment is coming up. We're voting for the 51st amendment. And now we see those who respect Parliament and who don't respect it, who don't give a shit about the law that's being considered, on their colleagues. [[11:59:02]] For-26 Twenty-six deputies were supported. Let's move on. 55th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. Capplin, 56th. He insists. I ask you to honor your esteemed colleague Kaplan from your faction of the former, honourable Mr. Chumak, and turn off your megaphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u70	Dear friends, indeed, this bill is of great importance to our nation. Indeed, the Constitutional Court is the body that should contribute to the establishment of order in Ukraine. Our right, which was developed by the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the trade unions, is proposed to ensure that the judge of the Constitutional Court has resided in Ukraine for the last 15 years, and only under this exclusive requirement could he be elected to his post. We've had enough in Ukraine of Georgians, Georgians and other foreigners who come here, destroy our medicine, destroy our agriculture, destroy our legal system in our country, and make the process of occupying our state. The judge of the Constitutional Court is to live in Ukraine for the last 15 years. And this is a requirement of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u71	I'd like to ask non-xenophobic speakers. But now we're putting 56 amendments to the vote. Let's not get xenophobic. Please, 56 revisions. [[12:00:50]] For-30 Not supported. 57th. Don't insist on Timoshenko. 58th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. Sphinx, 59th. Don't insist. 60th, Siroid. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u72	Thank you. I just want to say one thing. In view of the situation in the hall, I refuse to continue to sound the amendments that I am making. But I would like to point out that the presiding action at the meeting is a violation of the Rules in view of the fact that the presiding officer assesses what is happening and evaluates the members of the national parliaments. In order to deal with this situation, there are legitimate methods, in accordance with the Rules, and they need to be applied rather than evaluated by MPs and the activities of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u73	We continue the morning session for 15 minutes. And we're moving on. 61st, Siroid no longer insists. Vlasenko, 62nd. Don't insist. Pisarenko, 63rd. Don't insist. Syroid, 64th. Don't insist. Logwinsky, 65th. Don't insist. It's a pantyhose. Don't insist. 67th, Spanov. Don't insist. Sidorovich, 68th. Don't insist. Cooper, 69th. He insists. Please, Cooper's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u74	Dear people of Ukraine! We are now considering, once again, one of the most important laws for the life of our nation. Between the first and second readings of the Act, 587 amendments were made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, including 13,8 of which are identical, i.e. in fact, 5 worthless amendments to the Act, which do not alter the substance of the Act, which is given by the active authority. A simple question, even a rhetorical question: Is this law called upon to protect people’s interests? Is he called upon to defend the interests of authority? The answer for me, I think, is obvious to you. The law is not ready for adoption, but the process during which it is discussed is the apparent inability of the authorities to bring the country in order. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u75	We vote in favour of amendment 69 under the insistence of Deputy Kuprienka. [[12:03:30]] For-47 No correction supported. 70th, Welcome. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 71st. Don't insist. 79th, Derevyanka. Don't insist. 73rd. Don't insist. 74th. Don't insist. 75th. Don't insist. 76th. A MP with a megaphone, so he's not insisting right now. 77th, Sidorovich. Don't insist. 78th, Bird. Don't insist. 79th. Don't insist. 80th, Cooper. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u76	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear colleagues, this law applies to the words and rules of law proposed that during the period between the meetings of judges of Ukraine, the Council of Judges of Ukraine serves as the assembly of judges. We know how the Council of Judges is formed and what decision it makes. I propose by analogy the adoption of another law: during the period between the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council, the Presidency of the Supreme Council performs the functions of the Supreme Council. And it's going to be the same thing to each other. You can't pass on the function of taking judges in a country of selected caste, which is called the Council of Judges of Ukraine, and we know how it forms and who it is subordinated to. Please place an amendment for confirmation. Look, colleagues, at this point, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u77	Thank you. Puts the vote to the vote. Whoever supports Amendment 69, please vote. [[12:05:18]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment: 88th, Cooper. Turn on the microphone. What's that? Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u78	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear colleagues. Dear Chairman, the microphone. Dear Chairman, the microphone is not working, please note. Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. This amendment refers to the course of professional activity of a candidate for judicial office. As prescribed in the recognized law, there is no definition of who, where, and how to recognize this level. I suggest you write a specific formulation: with an apprenticeship in the field of law for at least 10 years. And this will make it impossible to manipulate what is called a recognized or unrecognized level of vocational education and activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u79	Thank you. So, whoever supports Amendment 80, please vote. And, colleagues, I would like to point out that we are now undergoing judicial reform. We agreed that we would go through it and be able to make a decision. And I think it's unacceptable that what's going on around the rostrum right now is not acceptable. [[12:06:43]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 81 revisions. Olenka Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u80	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'm very sorry that you say we are undergoing judicial reform under such conditions. I am very sorry that both I and many other colleagues who have tried to reach out to our colleagues on the legal committee about how to resolve the order of the competition. Because everyone was standing here the other night, and they were afraid, the fear just covered this whole room. And you were afraid when you were touched. Similarly, others sat and feared that they would be next. So right now you're voting for a law that could be a guarantee of the Constitution, a guarantee of your rights, and the main thing is human rights. And you vote for him in this way, not in your own decisions and decisions that are in the interest of the people, but in the long run, decisions that benefit the President and the oligaric clan in this country. This will not be a judicial system that will, unfortunately, protect people. I'm also taking down all my adjustments because there's no one in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u81	I'm voting on amendment 81. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:08:23]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 88 amendments, Kuprienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u82	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear people of Ukraine, I call your attention once again to the fact that the procedure for the adoption of this bill, the most important law in our country, the Constitutional Court Act, which is the only body as the ultimate institution for the protection of human rights, is to interpret laws that, you see, sometimes do not even read texts. What's going on? What is happening is that the authorities are extending this bill in fact without taking into account any position of the Ukrainian national MPs, grossly denying and ignoring the rights of the legislative initiative of the national MPs. 587. Those who have not heard the amendments of the national deputies are considered to be five. The amendments made by the national deputies are made to the point that they improve this law, but for some reason the authorities do not hear the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u83	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 88. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:09:57]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next by number. What's that? 256, Odarchenko. 256, Odarchenko, please. And 250, good. First, Odarchenko, 256, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u84	Huh? 86, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, a very important law is now being passed that will determine the life of Ukraine for many years. It must ensure that people are made available to the Constitutional Court. Now a lot of words have been said that this law will ensure the election of honest and impartial judges. That's not true. This law is now determined by an absolute procedure of engagement that will give the President the advantage of bringing in his judges. The President's administration has made very clever arrangements to hold a competition for judges by their quota. It forms itself a competition commission that selects not according to defined criteria, and then invites the President to identify the candidates that the President himself wants. We suggest that the President's competition committee be independent. Why? To set quotas.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u86	I'll bet on the vote on Odarchenk's amendment. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:11:47]] For-42 So 122-a, Odarchenko. What's that? Aah! Then. Come on, tell me which one. 122nd, Odarchenko. Turn on the Odarchenkov microphone. No, right? 96, Capplin. Please. Correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u87	Dear friends, I would like to draw the attention of all of the Ukrainian people and our colleagues that everything just about this bill will be adopted. There is a sense in the room of the necessary voices for its adoption. So we need to get out of the fact that we now have to work in detail on every right so that the ordinary Ukrainian does not become a hostage of the law that will serve the interests of the oligarchy, the interests of power, and not of ordinary Ukrainians. That's why we ask the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party of the Trade Union to amend the bill and create conditions for scientists, representatives of the trade unions, public figures to participate in competitive commissions and thus control that the judges of the Constitutional Court who will be elected are chosen solely on the principles of equality, equal opportunities in choice, profession and control.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u88	Whoever supports Caplin's amendment, please vote. [[12:13:32]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Next, 140th, Bird. Please, Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! I also have a lot of comments about the Constitutional Court bill. But I want to say that I was going to Parliament today to vote in favour of medical reform, to consider procedural legislation, to start a review of pension legislation, which was also introduced. And I don't know how we're going to be able to get into these exact conditions in all of these bills. So I want to apologize to all the lawyers who are waiting for changes in judicial reform and the new procedural legislation to apologize to the public organization "The Ukrainian Patients" who are waiting and who were actually looking forward to it yesterday because, at last, the laws in medical reform came out of the committee and expected their adoption. I don't know how to get to that vote. And I'm asking everyone very much, and I urge you to start working on what actually needs to be done today for all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u90	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 140 people's deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:15:05]] For-47 The decision is not taken. And before the break, the last 90 amendments, Martovitchki. Martovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! The 90th Amendment, like my previous amendment, aims to remove the subjective assessment of recognition of the level of competence that may lead to corruption. So I propose, in part three of article 12 of the bill, that the word "with recognized level of competence" be deleted. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u92	Thank you. And I'm voting for 90 amendments. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[12:16:02]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare a recess of 30 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the break. How many more rights do you have? How many more rights do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u93	Five. After the break. I'm calling it a break. I have to announce, I can only continue for 15 minutes. Take a 30-minute break and invite factions to the meeting so that we can discuss the situation. So at 12:40, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. After the break, we'll continue the revisions, and so, the authors, stay put. We will continue their discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u94	Break time is over. We're moving on to the amendments, and I want to stress once again, we agreed that we are going through the Constitutional Court and that this position is common to all. Then we move on to the following issues of the agenda, and I ask you not to interrupt the meeting in the hall. We have today's pension reform, we have today's educational reform, we may have a chance to consider medical reform. We, colleagues, need to work in the hall, not block work in the hall. So I ask everyone to concentrate, get ready for work. And I'm asking the following amendment authors, the next was Martovitch, if I'm not mistaken, the amendment. Turn on the microphone, Martovicki. He'll say it now. Colleagues, who of the authors of the amendments still insists on amendments? Odarchenko. Please. Odarchenko. Please, Odarchenko, five amendments. Come on, colleagues, Odarchenko has five amendments, let him read five amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I'm calling your attention to the 110th amendment. It recognized the need to remove the ground for formal refusal of a competition commission to make recommendations for a candidate to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So I propose in part five of article 12 of the bill that the words "and interview with them" be deleted. Please put to the vote and ask your colleagues to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u96	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 110. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:44:18]] For-27 The decision is not taken. And now five Odarchenk amendments, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, our amendments are complex, they are trying to make the Constitutional Court of Ukraine a truly independent body called upon to protect human rights from the abuse and violation of the Constitution. We're proposing that we run real competitions in the role of judges from an independent competition commission, which will run tests on the knowledge of law, an interview that will be broadcast live. And judges are those who really deserve it, not those who are relatives or useful people for the leadership of our nation. We suggest that decisions be made as a result of open, open, open, I repeat, court hearings at which everyone can make a statement of his or her position. We suggest that the work of the court be opened, that all citizens who so wish be allowed to come freely. I ask you to pay attention to what the bill says.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u98	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u99	I ask you to note that we are prescribed in the bill that a court hearing takes place without the press, without the call of the parties, the court has the right to restrict access to information, to a case. Dear friends, this has never happened before, it is now suggested that any decision has been made no longer by most of the composition of the Constitutional Court, which has 18 judges, but by four judges. We are convinced that once this bill is passed, there will be a decision to reverse the moratorium on land sales.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u100	I'm asking you to name the amendment you're making.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u101	I have a few amendments, 151. Now, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u102	Give me another minute so Mr. Odarchenko can name the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, this law will open up the market for the sale of land. And we don't need the President looking for most of those judges right now, he'll have four. I'm not talking about the salaries for the judges that are set up by this bill. They're set at 120,000 and a pension at 50 percent of the salary, that's a shame, that's an adoption of this law. And I propose to all the deputies not to support the bill or vote for it. Because it's essentially not possible for people to be involved in the Constitutional Court, but in general to create a hand mechanism that has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court in the European sense of the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u104	Are you insisting on voting rights?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u105	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u106	The numbers, please tell me for the third time. You were supposed to say that in the first minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u107	151, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u108	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u109	151 please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u110	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 151 People's Deputies of Odarchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:48:01]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next up, Mr. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u111	161.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u112	161. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of People's Deputy Odarchenk, 161. Please vote on who supports it. [[12:48:29]] For-41 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u113	Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u114	177.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u115	Let's call them, and I'll put them on. Name everyone, 177, who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u116	177.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u117	One seven, right? I am putting to the vote the amendment of one seven-seven Odarchenka People's Deputies, who support me, please vote. And, colleagues, in five or seven minutes, we're going to finish the discussion, and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I got it, I got it. Please, who supports one seven, please vote. Vote. [[12:49:13]] For-40 The decision is not taken. And 213, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u118	213. Dear colleagues, number 213.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u119	213. I'm voting on Amendment 213. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, colleagues, please vote 213. [[12:49:47]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now from Martovitch Amendment 243, 436, 540, 563, 566, I will put each of them separately to a vote. So who supports Amendment 243, please vote. Martovitch, a national MP. [[12:50:19]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next 436. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:50:40]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 540th Martovicsky. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. 540. [[12:50:58]] For-53 563 amendments to the Martovicsky People's Chamber, please vote on who supports it. [[12:51:19]] For-56 The decision is not taken. And 566th, Martovic. Please vote on who supports it. Please. [[12:51:38]] For-55 The decision is not taken. I'll give in this sequence, colleagues: Pinzenik, Kuprienko, Kaplin, Dobrodomov. All right, colleagues. Ola, your amendments are. Please. And Chervakova, well, in that order. First Pinzenic, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I ask you to consider five of my amendments. The first amendment is 217. It refers to a problem that has been raised on more than one occasion in the Supreme Council Hall to pay for the work of the employees of the Constitutional Court. Colleagues, it can't be the salary of any clerk 25 times the average wage! That's why my bill relates to the inclusion of a rule that stipulates that the salary of the Constitutional Court's judge will be approved annually by the State Budget Act, based on the possibility that society will know how much it pays. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u121	It's 218th Pinzenica, right? I'm betting on the 218th amendment. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:53:13]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next. You could call it, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u122	232th. Dear colleagues, today we will consider the draft Pension Reform Act. At the same time, this Law preserves "the caste of the untouchable." We're all putting people at the level of some condition, we're talking about working hours, and at the same time, the judges of the Constitutional Court are provided for special pensions. Well, that's a shame! We have no right to divide people into varieties. That's why. In addition, pensions are referred to as “decent financial maintenance. ” Therefore, my right is to assign the pension to judges on general terms, as to all Ukrainian citizens. Please place this amendment and vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u123	I'm voting on Amendment 232. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:54:23]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Next up, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u124	296 revisions. What does it mean? The wages of a government official of one character cannot depend on the body in which he works. The law provides that the salaries of civil servants in the Constitutional Court should be no less than the corresponding category of employees in the Cabinet of Ministers, but this means that they may be larger. It's my amendment that this salary should correspond to the corresponding category of employees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please place and support the editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u125	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 296. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[12:55:25]] For 113 Please, Victor. 113 – no decision taken. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u126	Edit 302 and 304, I'm asking you to set them up at the same time. Because they apply to budgeting rules. The budget code determines how the budget is to be drawn up. We are considering the Constitutional Court Act. There is no right for the Constitutions of the Court, the law on court, to determine the rules for budgeting, because we have a separate law for that. I've put in an order to remove these standards. Please put to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u127	Thank you. But I'll put it in sequence, first amendment 302. Whoever supports Amendment 302, please vote. [[12:56:19]] For 116 The decision is not taken. And now 304 amendments. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[12:56:37]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. It's all right, isn't it? Another one? Well, please, just for a little while, if you don't mind, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the 503. For me, the law is unprecedented. The Law provides that if a judge appointed to office before the act takes effect is to retire, his pension is to be granted under the law that was in force at the time of his appointment. That means the law is invalid, and we're assigning a pension based on an invalid law. Well, that's nonsense. I propose to delete this rule. And please put her to the vote. Edit 503, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u129	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 503. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. Please. [[12:57:43]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Now, Kuprienka, please. The next Kuprienko left with the paperwork. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u130	Oleg Kuprienka, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Cooper's not next. Your Honour, you are now in violation of the Rules, which may lead to the abolition of the vote and the adoption of the law. Why? The Rules clearly define how the amendments are considered: in order, not who supports, who does not. And you have to announce all the changes, not jump: Odarchenko, Kuprienko, Pinzenik or someone else. That's why this is not about the correction, it's about the procedure. And I ask not only to ask the amendments I have made, but to give each amendment one minute to explain its position so that it can be understood by the people's deputies who may vote in favour of it. Thank you. Now, give me a minute about my amendment number 154.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u131	Add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u132	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Amendment 154 refers to the way judges are chosen by the convention. The law clearly states, "most of the elected delegates." The convention is authorized when two thirds of the elected delegates are present. And thus there is a likelihood or danger that a decision will not be taken if the judges do not appear. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u133	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u134	I propose to replace the words "most elected delegates" with "most delegates present at the assembly." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u135	I'm voting on amendment 154. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:59:54]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Turn on Cooper's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u136	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Amendment number 240. What does this correction indicate? The law states that the judge of the Constitutional Court is provided with separate cabinets, jobs, transportation, and means of work. The question of who determines this need: the judge who works in this office, the head of the court according to the Rules that they accept for themselves, the Committee of Budgets, the Ministry of Finance? I suggest that these words be replaced by computer printing, Internet communications, office equipment, and paper. And then everything will be clear and clear that a judge is needed to work. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u137	I'm voting on Amendment 240. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:01:05]] For 105 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. And turn on Cooper's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u138	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear people of Ukraine and all who listen and watch! We accept, we now discuss the Constitutional Court Act, a very important document, the highest court in our country. What was recorded in the law? The Constitutional Court may develop and specify the legal position of the court in its following acts: to change the legal position of the court in the event of a substantial change in the legal regulation to which the court was directed in the disclosure (please add a minute at the expense of the following amendment) of such a position or, on objective grounds, to improve the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms, taking into account international obligations and provided that such a change is justified in the act of the court. What are we talking about? In the text of the law, it was possible for the Constitutional Court to correct its disgraceful position by which they sanctified the changes to the Janukovich Constitution, Kuchma, and perhaps the present authorities will do so. So this rule was in the law. What happened now? It happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u139	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u140	Add a minute to the next correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u141	And you're going to call two of them right away. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u142	There was this possibility in this norm. Of the 13 amendments taken into account, the 587s accounted for 8 amendments of the same types that excluded this rule from the law. Let's look at the authors: Longenkov, Derevyanko, Pisarenko. Does it remind any of those who made decisions at the time? Or did it affect them? And this amendment was ruled out. And so the court that will be created will not be able to correct these mistakes. That's why we're calling for amendment 471, 472 -- write down, Mr. Chairman, 473, 474, 475. Place all of them on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u143	Thank you. 473, 474, 475, right? I put every vote. So who's in favour of Amendment 473, please vote. Please vote on who supports Amendment 473. [[13:03:59]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next one is 474. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:04:19]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 475. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:04:36]] For-90 The decision is not taken. It's all over, isn't it? We've been through all the repairs. Please, Kuprienka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u144	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. I continue to record all my amendments because the position of power in the person of the coalition does not want to listen to the national MPs who are trying to improve existing legislation. My further revisions are changes that don't allow us to usurp power in part and at the time of voting for the Authorized of Human Rights and many other useful things. But given what's going on in the hall and how the law is being discussed, the most important law in the country, in fact, the court that has to defend, after our guarantor, the rights and interests of people, as it's all done, I'm taking my amendments. And for this bill, as a law, I will not vote for what I call upon all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u145	Thank you. Now, if you'll excuse me, please, Helen Schrum. Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u146	Dear Mrs. Helen, 223 amendments are now under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u147	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's Scrum faction "The Fatherland." Colleagues, I'm really paying attention to the fact that it's a two-pronged bill and it's supposed to be considered fully, normally, by full procedure. There have been several meetings of the working group that have considered these amendments, here more than 570 amendments, this is a great law that should be a guarantee of actual legality in a country that should be a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution. At the same time, I tried to be in all the working groups. My assistants were in all the working groups. And I can systematically tell you that in these working groups, five minutes in one working group was spent on this law, half an hour in the next working group was spent on this law. Such laws cannot be passed in such a system quickly, on the last working day of the council before the holidays. I have a strong belief that such laws should be adopted by each amendment separately. And this amendment of mine concerns exactly the so-called pensions or the permanent detention of a judge of the Constitutional Court. We're told that all pensions are abolished under pension reform, but in this law it's called the "life support" pension, and it's actually still a special pension. So I suggest if we go for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u148	I see. Please, Your Honor, we vote, Amendment 223 of the Skrum MP. [[13:07:22]] For a-117. We're going after the amendments, discussing this serious bill. 249, next. Olena Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u149	Thank you, colleagues. This amendment specifically proposes to remove the so - called provisions concerning the permanent monthly detention of judges of the Constitutional Court. Colleagues, why is this important? If we're talking about pension reform, if we're talking about the pension deficit, then we don't have to deceive and mislead Ukrainian citizens, and we don't have to call the pension permanent maintenance, and we don't have to leave it in the Constitutional Court Act. We're going to be looking at, I hope today, if we get to this topic, a pension reform that proposes to eliminate pensions for all, even for those who have worked for more than 20 years in the public service. Here it's called life support and it's kept. So I'm proposing that this rule be removed. And I'm proposing to colleagues who support pension reform, the coalitions now support this position, delete this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u150	249 amendments to the vote shall be made. [[13:08:32]] For the 110. Unfortunately, Mrs. Oleno, there is no correction. 374th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u151	374 amendments, colleagues, refer to a very important procedure for dealing with cases. It can occur either orally or in writing. Of course, if we're talking about the openness of the constitutional process. If we are talking about a person who has spoken, the subject of submission, wanting to be present at all meetings, knowing what is going on, this consideration should take place in oral form, not just in writing, where it is possible in closed meetings and in fact without the consent of the subject to this written form. So I would like not to take any chances or risk that virtually all matters will be dealt with in writing. And we suggest that the basic form of oral examination be determined, and only by the consent of the subject. And unfortunately, so-called mines have been laid in this constitutional process. And in this Constitutional Court Act, unfortunately, there is an effort and an attempt to make it more closed and more subject to the President of Ukraine, which is unacceptable. Hence, colleagues, oral form, written according to the consent of the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u152	Mrs. Olena, this is 374ths, right? Helen, is this 374? We vote, please, 374 amendments. [[13:10:03]] For the 180. 529 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u153	Colleagues, 529 amendments and the amendments that follow them are the most principled in fact for the Ombudsman’s Institute. You'll be surprised, but the Constitutional Court Act regulates the voting position for the Ombudsman, for the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner, and the actual destruction of the Ombudsman's institution, the Authorized Human Rights Authority, is because this vote is proposed to make it open, and earlier this vote should always be closed. The closed form of voting is actually supported by the ombudsmen of all countries that have addressed Ukraine and said that there are risks of politicisation of this office, the ombudsman -- those guarantees for the protection of human rights, the attachés, the displaced, those who are fighting for us on the front now, so that this figure is not actually politicized. And that's why voting for her is supposed to be secret. It can't be a position that will be exchanged between two factions of the coalition, between the People's Front and the BPT for other political contractors. This should be a position, an independent position, a non-political position that will represent the state at an international level, the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights at an international level, foreigners, stateless persons, displaced persons, atheists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u154	529th. Vote. [[13:11:33]] For 113 Please make the next 535 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u155	Colleagues, this amendment also applies to the requirement of open voting for an ombudsman. And it is suggested that this requirement be excluded and that the vote be kept as secret as it is in many countries as it should be. And I'll try to explain, colleagues, what's going on here in the Council. Well, actually, no one is listening and, in fact, it's already agreed, votes under this actual reform of the Constitutional Court, which is essentially anti-constitutional and closes the Constitutional Court, found, and that's unfortunately unacceptable. There is no trust in the Supreme Council because of such a vote, colleagues, because we are killing the Ombudsman Institute, the human rights defender, who is the parliamentary institution of protection. We've already killed the House of Accounts, and there's no head of the House of Accounts, we're killing a position on the TSC at all, we don't have a law on the TSK that allows us to draw on the responsibility of the President of Ukraine, the representatives of the Cabinet, the executive branch of power. We've already killed the Rules of Procedure because we're constantly violating it, the Regulatory Committee has no head of any day in this call. And that kind of thing, we destroy, we wipe our feet about Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u156	Dear Mrs. Olena, we listen carefully to the amendments. I want to go to the hall, now the amendment of Mrs. Helena to the Ombudsman's Institute. I ask those who support this amendment to vote in favour, Mrs. Helen. Thank you. [[13:13:07]] For 122 Unfortunately, 122 votes. Last amendment to Mrs. Skurm 576. Please, please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u157	The 576th refers to the presence of the Permanent Representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine during the meeting of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, there will be no representatives of the Supreme Council, there will be no representatives of other government authorities of local self - government, there will be only a permanent representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I do not understand where this idea came from. And, colleagues, I realize that this law will probably be passed after 600 amendments, almost 600 are considered in such a regime, were not considered by almost a working group, were not considered almost on the committee, the table appeared just one day ago. And unfortunately, this is an absolute disgrace to both Ukrainian citizens, and to the Ukrainian Parliament, and to the future Constitutional Court, we now place a "bomb of mistrust" on all state institutions of power and make them very weak and vulnerable and that makes the entire state of Ukraine weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u158	Please, Your Honor, 576 amendments to the People's Chamber of Skrum. I can see everyone, we're moving in the repairs, don't worry. 576 amendments to the People's Chamber of Skrum. By the way, I want to thank you for being able to move properly. Thank you all. [[13:14:32]] For 111 Ms. Olena, 111, unfortunately, votes. This is National MP Pisarenko 473 revisions. I can see it all, I can hear it, we're moving on, don't worry. 473 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u159	Thank you, Madam Chairman! I mean, this is 473rd, I want Ruslan Petrovich Knyazevitch to pay attention to that, too, we had the principle of things that we discussed, without which this bill would not look fully. Unfortunately, there is in the bill, in the first reading there was a norm that today does not make the Constitutional Court the institution that it is under the Constitution. And there remains a weak motive for the Constitutional Court's decisions to be in line with the Constitution. Because you can change them at any time when you change the situation. So we agreed with the committee, we made this amendment, it was partially accounted for. And I would like to leave this amendment in the text of the law, because without it, I don't think we have the votes to approve.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u160	Please put 473 amendments to the vote at the request of MP Pisarenko. Colleagues, please keep an eye on the amendments, we're discussing the bills properly. Anyone who supports any amendments, please vote. [[13:16:11]] For 112 Unfortunately, 112 does not vote. People's deputy Birddog. Please, Victoria the Bird. Ms. Victoria requests that the following amendments be put to the vote: 524 and 532, 557 and 554, please, 537 and 554. I'm asking you to turn on Mrs. Bird's microphone. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, my four amendments, which have just been made, also apply to the Institute of Human Rights Commissioners. And, obviously, you know, for today, we actually have a secret procedure for selecting an authorized person. Regrettably, the bill, which deals with the activities of the Constitutional Court, has inadvertently been amended in relation to the Authorized Court of Human Rights. I believe that if we are building true parliamentaryism, there should not be situations where there are laws that do not actually apply to the issue that we are considering. So I ask you very much to support these four amendments, to exclude the rules that apply to the Authorized Constitutional Court Act. And separately, I also address those who block the rostrum, because you can now help and exclude what should not be in this law and should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I think you've all been listening to the speech of your esteemed colleague the Birdcatcher, and she explained the point of the four amendments, we will now turn them to the vote, they all apply to the Institute of Human Rights Authorized. I ask everyone who supports this amendment to vote in favour. Please vote. 524 amendments shall be put to the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to vote so we don't say we don't discuss the amendment or vote. Please, 524, please join the vote. [[13:18:06]] For-119 Colleagues, there is a chance that all who support these amendments will vote for them. 532th, I beg you to vote. [[13:18:26]] For-149 Dear colleagues, 537 is now an amendment. Mrs. Ola, everyone sees you, okay. 537th now, and now we're voting in favour of the amendment of our esteemed colleague Birddog. [[13:18:48]] For a hundred and Colleagues, we're discussing the important position of the Authorized Institute, we have 554 amendments to the following, unfortunately, 537 didn't get the required number of votes. Let's put 554 in, please. [[13:19:16]] For 139 Sadly, these adjustments have not been made. Dear colleagues, the word is now given to the honorary colleague Alexia Rybchin, 368 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u163	Thank you. Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The amendment states that the law should provide for clear grounds for refusal to open the door. And there's such a norm that it's rude. The inadmissibility of a constitutional complaint, and we believe that failure to obtain such grounds and the right to claim that an appeal to a court is unacceptable, is why it is appropriate to provide a separate ground for not receiving a complaint. So please rule out this norm and support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u164	Anyone for excluding the norm, please vote. 368, please. [[13:20:14]] For-119 401. Please do not interrupt the meeting. We now have Rybchin, 401, a reverend colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u165	Yes, it is suggested that a participant should be required to appear at a meeting if, in fact, they have received a message and an invitation to exclude the possibility of sending him a message that he has not received in order to avoid these manipulations that are going on, people have not even been informed. It is also suggested that the obligation to give the court documents that are available to him should be assumed because failure to provide information is a responsibility. Therefore, a request to support technical remedies for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u166	Requesting technical assistance. 410 amendment, we vote. [[13:21:12]] For-119 Sadly, 119. 527 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u167	410 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u168	Oh, sorry, 410, I'm sorry, 410. Not 527, but 410.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u169	It is very important to me because it prohibits the use of mobile devices during plenary sessions of the Constitutional Court. So the proposal to predict that, apart from accredited media representatives, photo and video and soundfixion is also allowed by participants in the conduct, but with the consent of the court. It seems to me that the openness of the trial is very important, and the prohibition of using these means is simply unworthy and unacceptable to the Constitutional Court. Please support the openness of the guides.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u170	A request for support. Please, 410 revisions. [[13:22:14]] For-123 123 votes. 527th is now an amendment. Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u171	It is assumed that the same person who is assigned no more than one term may be authorized. There are similar standards. For example, we're going to register a bill on the Energy Ombudsman, and we're going to keep people from working there more than a certain term. In Ukraine, there are enough legal professionals and lawyers, so there is no point in retaining a position for one person to act on several terms. Request to limit the period by one line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u172	527 revisions. Please vote. [[13:23:06]] For 114 Regrettably, you are not being corrected. 564th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u173	The 564 amendment says that the committee should hold interviews with candidates at its next meeting, not carry them. Because we see, there's a very large number of technologies that delay decision-making. So let's just say that interviews with candidates should be in the next session, not the way the committee head is asked to. Please. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u174	Requesting to vote now for 564 amendments, colleagues, national deputy Rybchin. [[13:23:55]] For 111 111 votes were in favour of your amendment. 567, Mr. Alexia, this is your last amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u175	This is my last amendment, I'm giving up on others. I see that, unfortunately, the committee did not approach the draft for second reading, because if you look at all the amendments that are, only 15. More than 500 have been given, including only 15 amendments, which is the committee's inequitable work. Very many of the suggestions they made were professional. My amendment relates to the fact that national MPs are limited to asking questions if there are reasonable grounds for that. The National MP has the right to ask any questions to a candidate in a plenary meeting and there is no such thing. If it's not a state secret there, for example, there's an opportunity not to answer. However, there is no need to limit questions to the national parliaments, if there are reasonable grounds. Because there is an investigation of journalists, media news, a lot of things that we have to ask candidates about, if even this does not apply to their professional activities in connection with the corruption we have in the country. Regrettably, the committee failed to process it, but only 15 amendments were taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u176	Thank you. The final amendment of the People's Deputy Rybchin. I'm asking you to support her. Let's go to the others later. 567th amendment, please, 567th amendment. [[13:25:24]] For 1052
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u177	The decision is not taken. But I thank the National Deputies very much for understanding that we have reform today, we have an end to the inviolability today, and that our deputies are all constructively referring to the discussion. Thank you very much. And please, Dmitri Welcome. Turn on the microphone. And thank you for understanding. Dmitri Welcome. And, colleagues, we have a few authors left. I'm asking you to come into the hall, there'll be a vote soon. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u178	Dmitri Dobrodomov, National Control political party. I put 80 rights to this bill, which could have substantially changed and improved it so that it wouldn't be that tool to usurp power. But I can see that the moods of most people in parliament, who are willing to support them in this very way, I don't see the point in exhibiting them, so I'm taking them down. And our People's Control Group requires, instead, the Attorney-General's Order on the elimination of inviolability and the attraction to. An arrest permit for Dobkin and, in general, bills that would take away immunity from the MPs. We have to consider this today. This is our principle position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u179	Thank you. Yuri. Yuri Lewchenko. Please, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Yuri Lewchenko. Thank you, Mr. Dmitri. Lechenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u180	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I'm going to point it out again, and now I'm going to have to point it out, because from the rostrum, they said I couldn't come out. But what I'm stressing is that Parliament can't just go on with its work like nothing's going on. This is a very important bill, of course. It's, by the way, a completely anti-national bill, because it strengthens the control of executive power over the Constitutional Court, and it prescribes, by the way, a rule on the possibility of any law altogether by a legitimate person canceling as unconstitutional. But after what this Parliament has done the other day, after this Parliament has spit on the whole society, when thousands of people demand the removal of the inviolability from the bandits, this Parliament cannot just continue to work like this. It's not possible at all! This Parliament should now, first of all, remove the inviolability of Dobkin, and completely withdraw, not only allowing it to attract criminal responsibility, but also removing total detention and arrest. This time. Two. This Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u181	30 seconds, say the correction, Mr. Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u182	This Parliament should vote 5487 – this bill, which in reality, although trying to restrict the Constitution, would limit the inviolability of the Constitution. And three. This Parliament should now register and begin a procedure for considering changes to the Constitution in general, in order to change the 80 articles – and to remove the inviolability. But it's nothing, it's a farce, it's like nothing happened, it's normal work. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u183	Please, Caplin. Capplin, National Deputy, Corrections. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u184	205 amendments, 303rd, 366th, 426th and 450th. Please. And then we put them all to the vote. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u185	The team of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party and the trade unions has worked on a number of fundamental amendments, such as the amendment under number 205, which is proposed to prohibit judges from participating in so-called scientific conferences if this coincides with a court meeting. This will allow us to systematically organize the work of the court, it will allow us to remove any possible insinuation or possibility of avoiding participation in meetings, i.e. to organize appropriate effective conduct. We strongly insist that this amendment be accepted by our colleagues in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u186	After all the amendments, announce, and we will follow. 205th, we vote now. 205 amendments, honorary colleagues, the national deputy of Kaplin and the demands of his party. [[13:30:14]] For-78 Now we put 303 to the vote of the People's Deputy Kaplan. But they gave you a word that you might go forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u187	Turn on the Caplin microphone. Please name all the changes you want to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u188	I am very grateful that, after yesterday's criticism of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party, the leadership of the Supreme Council today clearly implements the rules of the Rules. I am absolutely convinced that we will have a powerful faction in the future of Parliament, and we will be able to gain the perfect implementation of the Rules. But 303 to the right. It is proposed that the costs of court financing may be reduced, as it is accepted. The point is that we are with you during the current financial year in case of budget savings, if necessary, to channel these funds to the support of ordinary people, not judges. Especially in the case of the adoption of rights that ensure a pay-as-you-go balance between judges and ordinary citizens, we will be able to use those funds for the needs of the national economy or the average of our ordinary citizens. Please vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u189	303 amendment, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u190	We're voting for the amendment. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:32:05]] For-72
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u191	366 law. The chapel is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u192	The team of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Social-Democratic Party, together with the trade unions, is proposing to shorten the deadline to two months. This would create all the necessary conditions, or everyone, without exception, would be dealt with expeditiously by the Constitutional Court. I would like to point out that, over the last three years, we have been actively fighting in Parliament for a simple person to have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has been able to give a proper assessment of the actions, particularly the authorities, in the implementation of the Constitution, the protection of the rights and freedoms of ordinary citizens. With the adoption of the relevant bill, such opportunities are available to people. The Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party and trade unions thank all the national MPs who have decided to vote in favour of this revolutionary bill for the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u193	The Kaplin amendment is put to the vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:33:34]] For-82 The decision is not taken. And Kaplin's last performance. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u194	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, the last performance of Caplin will never be. And the next Parliament we're going to have the most powerful faction, Kaplin Sergey is going to be the president of the country, the union of our parties, the Social Democratic Party and the Socialist Party will form a powerful government, and we and the trade unions will fight for the rights of the common people. And believe me, then all the crimes committed by today’s national deputies, today’s judges, today’s prosecutors will be thoroughly investigated. Thank you for your attention. And I would like to vote in favour of an amendment that similarly shortens the deadlines of deployments to 2 out of 6 months, which will allow a simple person to find the truth and defend their constitutional rights and their constitutional freedoms if they turn to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u195	Now we only vote for Caplin's amendment, not for everything else he said, please. And that was the last one today. Please vote. We can see them all. We see. We see. We see. [[13:35:07]] For-67 Please, National Deputy Cervakov, 536 amendments. Please. I ask you, Derevianka, to sit down so that you can see Olu. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u196	Olga Cervakova. Dear colleagues, we are now at risk of a very serious international scandal, if we do not vote on the 536 amendment, it refers to the procedure for selecting the Commissioner from human rights. I would like to remind you that the procedure for selecting the Commissioner for Human Rights should be classified, and this procedure has been approved by the United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights. If it is opened, the Human Rights Commissioner will be subject to political influence. I ask very much not to be exposed to an international scandal, to support an amendment that returns a secret voting procedure for the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner. That's what it takes for our hostages, that's what it takes for those people who are now in captivity. Vote in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, please note that today most of the amendments and speeches apply to the procedure for selecting the Authorized One. There is now a 536 amendment, which also applies to many others today. So so that there will be no comments that have not been discussed on this issue, I very much ask those who support this norm to vote for it now, including those in the rostrum right now. Please, whoever supports this standard, I ask you to vote. Thank you. [[13:36:52]] For 227 Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u198	Colleagues, we have now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u199	Let's move on. One minute now, Derevianko’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u200	Now, please, Odarchenko. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u201	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is about amendment number 587. It is a matter of preserving a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. This is a matter of providing for the very existence of our nation. If the moratorium is lifted, the land will be allowed to sell the land of salt, and the whole Ukrainian land will be bought in pieces, and we will be conquered without weapons. We therefore suggest that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should stop any case related to the moratorium on land sales prior to the holding of the U.S. referendum and the receiving of a position by the people of Ukraine whether they want to sell the land of agriculture or not. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u202	So I'm voting on Odarchenk's amendment. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:38:59]] For-80 Colleagues! There's two left. Four. 450 amendments I'm putting to the vote. If I support 450 amendments, please vote. [[13:39:23]] For-58
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u203	Dear National MP, Mrs. Yuzkova, which is being corrected. Now. Look.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u204	The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we've got two deputies left, and then we'll have the committee head's closing statement, and we'll move on to the vote. And so I'm asking you now, the one-in-a-kind presentation, please. Please turn on the microphone. And, Prince, prepare yourselves for the speech of the closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u205	Yuri Derevyanko, political party "The Will" is "The Movement of the New Forces". Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, Your Honor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are systematically ignoring giving me, as a national MP, a word for my corrections. I've got 12 amendments. I insist on speaking after every correction. You make corrections and only perform "Peter Prashenko's Block" and other deputies from the majority faction. So today when we're talking. This is Amendment 9. I have amendment number 9, 19, 72, 74, 75, 76, 241, 378, 472, 486, 500 and 521. I insist that I be able to report and speak on any correction. I insist, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich, on amendment number nine. I demand that this bill be, indeed, aimed at ensuring that the Constitutional Court is independent and not as the President wishes. That's why I'm insisting on her vote, and I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u206	Thank you. Who supports revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u207	Please give me the number of your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u208	Those who support the amendments of the people’s representative, Derevyanka, please vote. [[13:41:16]] For-53 The decision is not taken. And to the final word. Yeah, just a minute, a minute, a minute, a minute, a minute, a minute, and a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u209	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, for centuries, in Parliament, she was able to push through the normal amendment of Mrs. Chervakovy. An amendment that stops the possibility of usurping and usurping an ombudsman institution authorized by human rights. This amendment takes away the possibility of the executive authority controlling it. And what do we see? We see Mr. Awakov coming to the presidency, we see the leaders of other factions running. By the way, what's the Home Secretary doing here anyway? And they're trying to turn this thing around illegally and take it down illegally. I am addressing the Chairman, the Head of the Supreme Council of Andria Paris, you have no right now to re-examine this amendment, the amendment has passed. All of it! And what's happening right now, when different leaders run to the presidency and try to figure something out, is another proof that this House is illegal and that this bench needs to be closed. All of it! First, they do not undo the inviolability, and now they want to completely subordinate the Ombudsman to the executive authority. This is unacceptable! Get out of the way! Get out of the way!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u210	547th, Yuzkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u211	Tetjana Yuzkov, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, you have just voted to amend Mrs. Chervakovi's amendment, but this rule of law has only been excluded from the Human Rights Commissioner's Law, but you have left it in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules. I ask you all to gather now and return to my amendment to the previous edition, when the Human Rights Commissioner was determined by secret ballot. Otherwise the previous vote will be worthless, it won't work! Dear colleagues, gather around, vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u212	Thank you. So, the word is Ruslan Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u213	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it is very bad when our distinguished national MPs do not read the regulations they place on confirmation. I read 536 papers. 536 does not apply to the procedure for the selection and release of the Authorized Person. The 536 law voted refers to the Human Rights Commissioner Act in part to the Constitutional Court on the interpretation of Ukrainian laws. This rule is dead because in the Constitution the Constitutional Court has no authority to interpret the laws of Ukraine, such interpretation will be given only by the Supreme Court. And that's why even though we removed this rule from the law because it's not in the Constitution, even if we re-voted it and it's in the law, it won't work anyway, because the Constitutional Court can't interpret what's not in the Constitution. So this is an absurd amendment that you just voted on. At least read what you vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u214	Mr. Ruslan, please state your closing statement immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u215	I'm saying once again that this amendment, we've restored it, relates to the fact that we gave the Commissioner the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court about the interpretation of laws, is contrary to the Constitution. But God was with him, so voted. With regard to the other rights mentioned, these are other revisions with other numbers and they have not obtained enough votes to confirm when they were being treated. Read carefully 536 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u216	So, colleagues, I think the committee head has explained in detail the situation that has arisen, and in this situation he thinks that the risks to the editorial that was supported are not borne. And that's why I think it's clear that we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. I ask you to prepare, take up jobs, colleagues. We've been through all the discussions, all the paperwork's been busy. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues! Colleagues, last vote. 547 for confirmation. Ruslan Knyazevitch, Knyazevitch, 547th is requested for confirmation, comment, 547th for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u217	547 already applies to the order of election, that's quite different, and I'm talking about 536th referring to the deletion, namely, the renewal of the right for the Authorized to apply to the interpretation of the laws of Ukraine. We do. questions about the appointment and release of the Commissioner were asked several times, and they did not get enough votes. That's why there's no point in supporting this part, because it's a mirror rule both in the law and in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u218	So you're offering 547 for or against, how do you propose to vote? Ruslan Knazevich?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u219	Since the Council’s legal position is that we have not supported the previous amendments to the Authorized Law, surely these changes need not be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u220	So who supports Amendment 547, please vote. [[13:47:47]] For-127 All right, we're done here. And I put it to the vote, the position was clear, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Draft Law on the Constitutional Court in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please come into the hall, please vote. Please support the Constitutional Court in its second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:48:46]] For 245 The law is passed. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda: the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission of external control to conduct an independent evaluation (audit) of the effectiveness of the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. There is no special procedure here, and I invite the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption of Sobolev Egor Viktorovich to report. Please, Mr. Yegor. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't understand why this meeting is falling apart. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Long, please. Turn on Longamy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u221	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear Chief! I ask all of you to note that there has just been a vote in favour of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with a grave violation of the Rules, by a vote, violating a whole series of normative acts, and I ask you all to record this. And I ask you, if we have one law for all, please be careful with these votes, because this is a violation of the Supreme Council's rules in voting, not something, but the Constitution, think about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u222	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u223	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u224	Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u225	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, we have a crucial moment. We've tried to vote on the NABA audience several times. You remember what happened in this room when Peter Dustenka's Block and the People's Front conspired to drag out a "charmed" audience to bring down the NABA. Now we have candidates from a number of foreigners who have proven their reputation, who have actually planted more than one corruptionist. I beg you, those who support the activities of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, those who support anti-corruption reform in this country, you have to vote exclusively for foreign candidates. All the other candidates are "characteristic", "pocket" candidates for the People's Front and "Peter Prashenko Block" to finally destroy the only independent body to fight corruption today, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u226	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, Radical Party Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u227	Please, I know what he's talking about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yegor, millions of people have authorized me to speak. Don't stop me from talking! Honourable Ukrainians, honourable colleagues, have just been voted in favour of the Constitutional Court. First, please note how they voted: the Party of Regions voted in conspiracies with the oligarchic groups -- what our team is talking about all the time: President Poroshenko is trying to usurp influence on the judicial branch of power; the adoption of this Act will allow President Dustenk to bring three judges of the Constitutional Court. Their next decision will be to postpone the presidential election to 2020 in order to extend the term of office of President Dustenk. This is the road to the usurpation of power, this is the road to dictatorship. I want to assure the Ukrainians, regardless of the corruption plots that are going on in Parliament today, including the sacks of corruption money they are carrying, our team will stand firm and will not allow Dusty to usurp power. Second, about the NAB audience, I'd like to disagree with a self-help colleague who tells us what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u228	Please stop. Please stop. Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking everyone to calm down. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm asking you to break up and calm down. Please enable the completion of the statement. Please, Baby, finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u229	Allow me to express my position. You don't. Listen, if it's democracy, self-help colleagues, Oleg Romanovich, I'm addressing the faction leader. If it's a democracy, if you won't let me say the word, we don't need that kind of democracy. Don't fight, stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u230	Stop, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u231	I said get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u232	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u233	Let me finish. Oleg Romanovich. Don't fight. Simeon, no one's fighting. Stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u234	Oleg Valeriyovich, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, calm down, calm down. Colleagues, don't fight, colleagues. MPs, honourable fellow MPs, I call for peace, once. Two, I want to. Kirichenko, shut up! Second, I want to address the Ukrainians. Please, colleagues, pay attention! Democracy is that everyone has the right to express his or her opinion, whether they like it or not. Dear Yegor Sobolev, if you think that democracy is just what you can say and no one else can.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u236	All of it. Thank you. And the closing statement, Lechchenka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u237	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u238	30 seconds, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u239	I'm asking you to let me finish. So I ask you to respect our right and the millions of people who voted for our party. Now, as for the NABU audience, the Radical Party faction will not vote for the NABU audience, because this is the way for President Prashenko to monopolize the impact on NABU. At the same time, however, we do not agree with those who impose on us foreigners and foreign administrations. Ukraine should be ruled by Ukraine, not by Americans, Russians or anyone else. Only we can get the order in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u240	Thank you. Yes, the closing statement. Sergei Leschchenko. Yeah, then Sobolev, then Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u241	Honourable Ukrainians, the flaming backdrop of radical Oleg, but the question to Oleg himself: Oleg, where are your signatures under the Law on the Cancellation of Deputies? Today there are 151 signatures, and there is no signature from radical Oleg and his radical brothers. Where are the signatures? The second question. Parliament is moving on to a shameful procedure for the appointment of a person who will destroy the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Our requirement, the requirement of European structures. You can see how this Parliament has turned into the biggest business club in Europe, how the corrupts are going crazy, all these supporters of Martinenko, who was robbing Ukrainian citizens. All these supporters of the rest, who have besieged Ukrainian state-owned enterprises, how they flaunt and extermination! Because they know that the Anticorruption Bureau will come after each one of them, it will plant each one of those who have flooded the state streams with their viewers. So they're going to be holding an NABU pocket audience right now. And the last name is the person who was formed on the anti-corruption committee yesterday, most of the pervasive part of the BPT and the second faction that is the most exorcist. People who call themselves some kind of "front" are not really the front, they're just a sect of corruptionists. And these people are going to choose an NAB audience to destroy the only anti-corruption body. That's why we have to choose only foreign audiences. There are two candidates who have a world experience of fighting corruption. And the last. People are standing under the Supreme Council and demanding the destruction of parliamentary immunity as the rudimentary of corruption, as the rudimentary of what these sales have come to Parliament for, so that they can continue to rob you, take your money, and build themselves villas on Marbella, on Lazarus, in London.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u242	Colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, just a minute, Sobolev, then from the Front, Maxim Burbak, then the replica, and we move on to the decision-making process. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you calm down now, because what happened in this room is that once again you exchanged the arrest of someone accused by the Attorney-General in crime for a vote in favour of the Constitutional Court, and you'll remember my words at 5:00, when everyone's friendlyly voting for the removal of one gentleman's immunity, and then you'll end this plan in a friendly manner. And that's what the Peter Dustock faction is going to do, the people who did it the other way. Second, how do you vote on an audience? Our faction has decided to vote for the person who planted all the corrupters directly in Italy. This person will do all he can to ensure that the Guatemalan experience is taken over in Ukraine. And then your conspiracy with the Environment, the BP won't work. You'll all be in the same place. Get ready! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u244	Thank you. Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, let's all calm down and lower the tension in this session room. As much as the Ukrainians were not dancing here, or the DJs and the pimps from the rostrum, the Supreme Council should finally choose its representative, the auditor of the NABU. Why should we do so and why we cannot do so, thanks to such fruitful work of the head of the profiling committee, we have been unable to do so for a month. Because there is a great opposition to the appointment of the NAB, and all its activities have been verified? Why should we do that? That is what all society and national MPs require. In order to understand why the case was not brought against the defender of all truthfulness, the owner of elite real estate in the center of Kiev, who borrowed the money. Why on the same charges did we discuss here the issue of depriving the MPs of their integrity? We need to figure out and put all the dots over the "and" and that's fair and fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u246	30 seconds, please finish. Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u247	We want to make sure that, according to current legislation, when we were creating this body, we anticipated that it should be audited. That is why it is fair, just, and so requires the entire country and the national MPs as representatives of our constituents. So take your seats, colleagues, and let's vote. The rating vote will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-13-m0.u248	Let's go, fellows. According to the Rules, all four candidates who have submitted a committee for consideration should first be voted on. First, there's a rating vote, and then only after that, those of the candidates who have won the highest number will be the final vote for the appointment of the audience. And so I ask, colleagues, now by way of a rating candidate to identify each candidate for the support of each candidate. I emphasize that I will put them in alphabetical order as they were given by the committee. In alphabetical order, as given by the committee. So we move to the alphabetical order of the rating vote in each candidature separately. So I'm putting Borsch Mart's nomination to the external control committee for an independent evaluation of the effective activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Anyone who supports it, please vote. It's a rating vote. Vote. [[14:03:04]] For 111 Next. I'm betting on the rating vote for the Candidature of Pottery Sergy to form an external commission to conduct an independent evaluation of the effective activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Goncharenko Sergei. [[14:03:35]] For-22. I'm betting on Kastresan Carlos's nomination for an external control committee to conduct an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[14:04:08]] For the 110. And the last candidate that was submitted by the committee is I'm voting, on the rating vote, on Janovska Alexandra Grigorovni's candidature, on the external control board, on the independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. [[14:04:42]] For 207 According to the rating vote. According to the results of the rating vote and corresponding to article 26 of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, I put to the vote the question of the definition of Janovska Alexandra Grigorovna, who has obtained the largest number of votes on the committee and who has obtained the largest number of votes during the voting in the Hall, a member of the External Review Commission from the independent evaluation, an audit of the effectiveness of the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please vote. [[14:05:35]] For 216 Colleagues, how are we supposed to be in this situation? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll be back in a moment. [[B in m in s a l in]] The decision is not taken. [[Applause]] According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I announce a recess at the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4:00 p.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work.
