ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Good morning! Thank you. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Can we have the registration? Please take up jobs. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:03:32]] 355 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Gennady Borisovich Bobov. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And before we announce 30 minutes, I'd like to say the logic of today. Initially, we have traditional ratifications. And I would like us to maximize our mobility around their acceptance. And then, colleagues, I'm going to suggest to the Supreme Council that we go into one of the big projects where there's a lot of lines. In particular, there is Bill 5592-d, which is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for simplifying business and investing in securities). There are 600 rights, and for us today would be a chance to go through them so that tomorrow we can make a positive decision. If that is the will of the hall, and if all of them support this idea, we will be able to get through the proceedings and on Thursday we will be able to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u2	Ratifications at the beginning, of course. We start with ratifications. I'm talking more about between 12:30 and 2 p.m. so we can go straight. And now we have 30 minutes to announce statements, messages, proposals from the people's deputies. And I'm asking you to record those national MPs who have messages for the Ukrainian people. Please sign up. Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, gives the floor to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášek Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want you, my dear Ukrainians, to tell us our budget requirements and our priorities. Because in that bill that we voted yesterday, we see how they want to divide, but we don't see the priorities, we don't see the strategy. What does the Radical Party offer? The first priority for next year's budget and strategy is to raise Ukrainian income, raise wages, increase pensions, raise social standards. It's the only way to get Ukraine out of poverty, out of dependence. The government's proposed 3,700 minimum wage for the next year is an unfair salary because it was low, because it doesn't give people a decent living on that salary. According to the Ministry of Social Policy, the minimum wage in September was 3,800 with a hook, and we are offered a minimum wage of 3,700 for all of 2018. Therefore, the Radical Party team has been offering a minimum wage since the new year 2018 for 5,000 dollars a month. Why is it important to increase the minimum wage? Because millions of people live on a minimum wage. In addition, the minimum wage is linked to an increase in the country’s average wage, an increase in the only social contribution to the Pension Fund’s budget. As a result, there is an opportunity in this new year 2018 to again raise pensions for people. Because when we get new incomes from the minimum wage to the Pension Fund, we're going to be able to retire to those who have a great job, but they have a small salary, and as a result, they have little pension -- 100 dollars, 200 dollars. We want people to raise their pension to a thousand dollars plus 2,000 dollars plus. So our requirement: minimum wage is 5,000 dollars per month, minimum pension is 3,000 dollars per month from the new year 2018. These are our priorities and our requirements. Our second priority is not energy-generating subsidies, but in exchange for windows, doors, boilerhouses, a heat line to make people pay less tariffs for utilities to consume less energy. Our third priority is to modernise the core funds so that Ukrainians can work and earn money. Cheap business loans, new jobs for Ukrainians, new internal and external markets for Ukrainian products, more sales of Ukrainian products, more currency to Ukraine to enable people to work in their own country. Our priority is to support agriculture, it's to support the movers, it's to protect and protect the country. This is the policy of the Radical Party that we want to implement in the new 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u4	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u5	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of the Ukrainian National Budget for 2018 in its first reading. The Ukraine Opposition Block faction as the only faction in this session hall that has not supported it since 2014, has never supported the Ukrainian State Budget Act, and this time it will not be supported. Because this budget is not a development budget. Look, no solid economic model of the country's development has been proposed. Under the budget to be voted in this month and in the coming month, taxes were simply increased. The Opposition Block faction insists that high taxes can only allow rich countries to increase production volumes, only by lowering the level of tax burden is possible. To talk about what we're demanding to raise pensions and wages is just populism. There can be no increase in wages due to higher levels of taxation. The opposition bloc will not vote in favour of the draft State Budget Act because it provides for an unprecedented level of government debt and guaranteed government debt. Just think, now we have 77 billion debt, billions. It is proposed under the State Budget Law of $100 billion. We have 93 billion dollars in GDP. Where are we going? This is the real face of the economic policy of the state. We live in debt to eat the specified funds, to repay the debt previously taken, and then to accept the budget. The government budget is 780 billion dollars. Just think, 300 billion dollars goes into public debt service. One in three bracelets will be returned to external and internal creditors. The Opposition Block faction will not vote and other deputies will call for the failure to support Ukraine's State Budget Act for the next period, because medical subsidies, educational subsidies, are being reduced. Here are the first signs of reforms that have been made. It is reduced by 3 billion in rural support for rural medicine. In doing so, social standards are falling against the backdrop of increased expenditure on government authorities, on the President's Office, on the Supreme Council's Office, on the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Think about it. From 300 million to 1.5 billion dollars is funded by the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 11 billion dollars additionally funded by the central executive authorities. This is a testimony from the police state, since the Ministry of Internal Affairs has increased its spending, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs has increased its spending. We urge you not to support the designated antisocial.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u6	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u7	Which has nothing to do with development, as the coalition says here, is the budget for food and debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u8	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ribak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! Yesterday we supported the State Budget Project 2018 in our first reading. This project is qualitatively different from the similar projects proposed for Parliament's consideration in recent years. But there is one problem that continues to be systematically ignored by government and parliament. This problem is the lack of sufficient funding for the conservation sector through the implementation of conservation measures. Cleansing of sewage, waste treatment, the creation of a system of separate garbage collection, the harmful operation of water in the Carpathian region -- and this is just a small part of environmental issues. Positive examples of successful countries show that every dollar invested in the environment will save $2 for the country’s health. And you can't count on it. Experts clearly link the dependence on the health of the population to the quality of the environment. I hope that the proposals for the budget made by the Committee on Environmental Policy will find their support by the government and will be taken into account, and in the near future we will be able to observe positive trends in the environmental field. The second question I would like to raise is the development of the infrastructure of the mountainous Carpathian regions. In the Chernobyl region of Putilski, Visnitsky, The Watchtower, there is a potential for development, but the reasons behind the development do not depend on local self - government. The solution to the problems of road infrastructure depends on the central authorities. Yesterday, in the course of the vote, under the insistence of our faction on the Petra Prashenka Block in the Supreme Council, a road experiment was continued that would allow an additional 10 billion dollars to be involved next year, from overturning on arrivals to customs to repair our Ukrainian roads. To date, 8.2 billion dollars have been recovered from the area thanks to an experiment that was launched two years ago at the proposal of the President in Parliament. To this day, road repair infrastructure solutions to the current maintenance and quality repair, as appropriate, depend solely on district government administrations. After all, the facilities to be repaired are made up of district government administrations in agreement with the Central Executive Authority in the field of transport infrastructure. I hope that in 2018, given that you and I, your colleagues, voted in favour of a road fund and that 35 percent of the funds will come for the repair of the public roads, the roads of local importance, the roads in our country will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u10	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u11	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! The main challenge of economic policy is to actually raise citizens' incomes. Real is that wage increases and pensions are ahead of inflation, ahead of price increases. So it's an extremely right decision to raise the minimum wage that the Radical Party team has made up to 3,000 200 dollars. And we insist on raising the minimum to 5,000 dollars, that's the right way to develop the economy. But on the other hand, in order to have a strong economic impact on such decisions, we need to develop our own production, or these costs are simply being washed away through imports and are of absolutely minimal benefit to the economy. In order to raise its own production, we must stop doing what the authorities are doing today -- imitating economic reforms, chasing a change in the Doing Business rating, forgetting the real business conditions. The proposals of the Radical Party team are qualitatively different. Industrial reform package. First. This is a removal of barriers to entry into the economy. This is a model of free networking: electricity, gas, water -- all kinds of engineering networks. This is how it works in the United States, and this is how it works in Israel. Investors and industrialists are still paying for the investment component in the tariff, and that's the right thing to do. Three skins should not be irritated, for no one comes to build factories in Ukraine, and this situation needs to be changed in a qualitative way. The adoption of Bill 6671, which was signed by representatives of all factions and groups of parliament without exception. The other one. Industrial parks. This is an opportunity to involve large-scale industrial investments in Ukraine. This is a minimum wage requirement of 11,000 dollars. If someone wants to create jobs from abroad in Ukraine and pay 3,000 or 4,000 dollars here, you can build them in your countries with that kind of pay. At least 11,000 dollars is paid in industrial parks, and in exchange, the state introduces powerful investment incentives, such as Poland, Turkey, Slovakia and other countries. Third. It's a strategic initiative that today will, by the way, be considered by the Economic Policy Committee. "Buy Ukrainian - Pay Ukrainians" is a new formula for government purchases, whereby those enterprises that use Ukrainian raw materials, energy, Ukrainian labor, Ukrainian loans, they get the advantage of tendering. We need Ukrainian producers to win competition in the internal market, including. Because otherwise, as we're going to win abroad, if we don't buy industrial products ourselves, which is very often even better than European, let alone other characteristics. A comprehensive approach. Finally, create a Export Credit Agency, a law that you and I passed to make loans. This is the real support of the Ukrainian producer, the real way to raise citizens' incomes at the same time, not by percentage.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u12	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u13	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkashina, Petra Prashenko's Block. Dear Ukrainians! I'm not going to be innovative and I'm going to say again what we accepted yesterday under the curtain of the day -- the country's budget in the first reading for the next 2018. Ask me if there are any ideal budgets in countries that are at war. And like everyone in this room, I'm going to say to you, "No, you can't." But nevertheless, in this budget besides the minimum wage that we've already talked about, which is almost 4,000 dollars today, we have 122 billion dollars in social protection. We have over 50 billion dollars to support utility subsidies. But that's not even the point. We continue for the third year in a row to support 5 percent of GDP for defence and security. Think about these numbers. We have increased the funding of the Armed Forces of our nation by 22 percent. We have increased 67 percent the cost of purchasing technology for our Armed Forces. But it's not even more important. More importantly, we are constantly caring and caring for the end of our days for the ATO soldiers who have been defending the borders of our country for all these years. From year to year, the number of people in need of improvement is increasing. Over the past two years, we have provided apartments for warlords, for border guards, for military personnel, for the Armed Forces and for the BSS, over 4.5 thousand. And this year, on our first reading, we supported 200 million funds for the continuation of this program, especially for the disabled who suffered from the war, which lost their hearing, sight, and internationalist soldiers. For the first time in recent years, we have foreseen 25 million dollars for military personnel, ATOs, and displaced persons. We will continue to grow this part of our activity. At the same time, yesterday, colleagues, we voted on a very important bill to put it into the agenda, number 7161. This is a joint effort of the Ukrainian - Russian border, where 15 national deputies took part in the summer. My co-authors, Victoria Sümar and Alexander Trelyakow, suggest that you think about putting a dot on the idiotic issue that continues to be a concern for every disabled person who lost during the war and, unfortunately, not just during the war of the limbs. Consider: A person has lost a leg, a hand, and is periodically continued on various medical commissions to confirm that the leg has not grown. I hope tomorrow we'll put this question to a vote and we'll get, I don't know, everyone in the room for that decision. Dear colleagues, we have a lot of work to do ahead of us, a second reading and a whole month's work. Let's work together to make our Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u14	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u15	They received adequate protection and support from both parliament and the entire Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u16	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u17	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, dear voters!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u18	I would like to ask you to speak in English.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u19	I'm taking courses. I'll be there in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u20	Unfortunately, I can't, the rules are one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u21	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u22	One minute in Ukrainian. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute in Ukrainian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u23	Thank you for giving me this opportunity. Next time, I think I'm going to report on the demand for Ukrainian. Dear colleagues, dear friends! There are a number of issues that are fateful and have been implemented in the State budget of Ukraine. This is primarily a road reconstruction. Especially in the south of Odessa County, everyone probably already knows about the Odessa-Reni road. I report that more than 80 per cent of the work has already been done. I think that these work will continue because the relevant law that we adopted yesterday on first reading allows us to do so. But I would like to draw attention to another fateful problem: the water supply of settlements. I ask the Cabinet of Ministers to take into account the amendments relating to the allocation of funds to the Water Agency for the major repair of locks, Lake Yalpug.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u24	All of it. No, I'm sorry, we made a deal with you, all in Ukrainian. Either you can continue in Ukrainian, or please take your seat. Thank you. [[Noise Nodes]] The rules are for everyone. Please. [[Applause]] Thank you. Please take your seat. [[Noise Nodes]] No, it's not. Mr. Kiss, I'm asking you again, us. There is an opportunity to speak only in Ukrainian. No, the English is given to everyone. In English, please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u25	Ukrainian, perhaps Bulgarian, if possible. I very much ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take into account the financing of Lake Yalpug, the gateways that need to be repaired today. Question price - 6.5. 6 million 500 thousand dollars. That's the first one. And secondly, five million for the development of cost documentation for the water supply of two areas in the southern Odessa region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u26	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Jaroslav Dubnevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u27	Good day, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday we gave you and the green light to continue the customs experiment. The road sector received substantial support for 2018. The proposal for the Petra Prashenko Faction in the vote for the draft Decision on Conclusions and Proposals for the Ukraine Draft Law on Budget for 2018 and the bill on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code as a basis for the Committee's recommendations on budget issues was taken into account. Bill 7116 is complemented by appropriate provisions. Thank you to fellow MPs for their support, and I urge them to show the same solidarity tomorrow during the infrastructure day. I'm reminding you of the bills that are planned for consideration. Project (6766) to amend some Ukrainian legislation in the area of road construction and operation. Its goal is to improve the regulatory regulation of construction and the operation of public roads on concessional terms, as well as to improve the investment climate. The bill is actually called upon to put the concession mechanism on the road into practice. He clearly outlines the rules and conditions for investors who receive real guarantees to protect their investments in Ukrainian roads. Draft Law 4642 amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding compulsory insurance, the liability of the carrier. This bill is based on the need for changes in the legal framework with a view to adapting it to European Union legislation. Draft Law 6644 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (to ensure that road haulage market participants comply with the legislation in part of the weight and gauge parameters). It is designed to preserve roadways from premature destruction caused by disruption by carriers of the established weight and gauge standards. The Transport Committee also proposes draft laws on inland water transport, which is an alternative, since the river sector needs a basic law. A draft of Law 5261 amending the Ukrainian Air Code. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of these draft laws tomorrow and to take into account the conclusions of the Transport Committee during the vote. And taking this opportunity, with my colleague Mikola Lušnjak giving me his word, thank you for your decision to limit subsidies to 150 million companies, which were also adopted yesterday during the budget vote. This is the first step towards the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the countryside. Thank you for your attention and please support the infrastructure day tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u28	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Cupry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we are all concerned about how we can win the war with the Russian aggressor country. In this situation we see that we now have a unique chance to adopt, indeed, the patriotic bill on the reintegration of Donbas, which all Ukrainians are waiting for. But it's very important to ask those specific questions to the government, and to the current government, to the President, to give a signal to the Ukrainian people, to the international community, that we are taking solely patriotic positions that do not lead to the surrender of Ukraine, which leads to victory. The Ukrop Party recently developed a so-called patriotic doctrine and published it. We are gradually proposing how to win the war, how to make Ukraine our strong, powerful, territorially independent. But in this situation right now, we see a thriving trade with the Russian Federation, with an aggressor. ROSHEN continues to pay millions of taxes in the Russian Federation. The Lenin Cushroom has successfully forged the powdery wealth by using military orders to steal the state budget. In this situation, Ukrainian diplomacy is virtually powerless, since the President of Ukraine instructs her to engage with the aggressor, to do nothing to win the war. We believe that it is now time for the Ukrainian Parliament to intervene and say its word that we will not tolerate this shameful situation quite enough. The Ukrop Party, the Ukrop Party MPs have amended the law on the reintegration of Donbas, where we demand everyone vote in favour of breaking diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. Yes, we demand and send this signal to the government, we send a signal to the President, but we can't keep quiet anymore. And it's not just a relationship breakup, it's a friendship and cooperation agreement with the Russian Federation that needs to be denunciation. We need to introduce a military situation in Ukraine, identify territories occupied, claim Russia to be an aggressor. Only then can we successfully protect our interests, including in the international arena. And now the situation is, we have a booming Russian business, the National Security and Defence Council, the President, they don't impose sanctions on him. And if we win, and we win international arbitration against Russia for the damage done, there's nothing to even impose. I think that in this situation, Parliament has to react and put a dot, we are in favour of Ukraine or we are in favour of Ukraine. I think it's only necessary to vote in favour of a breakup, and we'll see how the vote is going to take place and who votes. Russia and I should not trade, not relations, we should fight and win with Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u30	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u31	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Vietnamese Syndrome has long since become a reality for our country. Yesterday at my home level, a veteran of the front threw a grenade at a police officer as a result of a domestic conflict. But this policeman was also on the front and so was the hero. Why are such situations taking place? Because, unfortunately, there is no serious State support for veterans in our country today, there is no real socialization program for fighters. The best, risking life, health, and freedom on the eastern front, often return without a hand, without a leg, with reduced mentality. They come back and nobody needs them, and the state doesn't care about them. Every day, I get a statement that an East Front veteran in all parts of Ukraine, and this is a typical situation, he can't find a job, he doesn't have a salary, he doesn't know how to feed his family. Where's he going? As a result of total poverty, there is a growing criminogenic environment in the country. We all see it, reading terrible news every day. That no state structure but the National Police has yet been seriously integrated into their own composition as veteran fighters. As a result, we see a serious, even greater increase in criminogenic conditions. Every day we read news about how bandits, honest bandits use fighters in their fights for one reason or another, these fights are not needed by anyone. They do not know how to get a child to school, how to help their older parents. Because he's coming back and he can't find a job. The Radical Party requires the President, the government, all ministries to be implemented immediately, and this was to be done three years ago, a program for the socialization of fighters. Maximumly integrate the best of the best veterans into their structures. In each ministry, you can find the correct application of our patriotic fighters who fought on the eastern front. What do we see today? Nobody needs them, they're used by bandits, they're used by political apherists like Saakashvili, like Timoshenko, whose week wasn't at work. And we see again today that there is no working time flying to Geneva to join him, along with other political adventurers, in trying to take advantage of the situation in the country, to try to use those who fought in the east today against Ukraine. And they'll be able to do that if the state doesn't socialize the fighters, if the state doesn't hear the Radical Party, if it doesn't develop national production, it won't give our fighters a better job. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u32	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u33	Colleagues, two more, up to three, we won't be able to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u34	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u35	I give you my word and you can express your indignation from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainian citizens." Look what's happened now. Again, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is once again in violation of the Rules, as was the case yesterday at the time of Ukraine’s first - reading adoption of the budget. Look, we have 30 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I've only got one minute left. So it turns out, now the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine says, and I want to add two more. I don't have two performances, the tenth performance of three minutes is 30 minutes. What happened yesterday? Yesterday, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine defiantly violated 157 articles of the Ukrainian Rules, which say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is voting on the basis of the conclusion of the budget committee, and then the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to vote on the proposals, comments by the Ukrainian national deputies in the table. From the Opposition Block, we had offers at the minimum of living, at the minimum wage, and generally after creating jobs, after reinstatement of childcare payments up to three years of age, increased birth pay. I want to remind everyone that we have today's depopulation of the nation, we have today's highest mortality rate in the world and the lowest birth rate. And the priorities of the government should be birth, job creation, and the financing of the least protected population. That's why I want to show everyone this document. The Ministry of Social Policy publishes an actual minimum of living for up to 20 people each month. And I want you to read that the actual size of the living minimum in September's prices is 2 thousand 515 dollars. Not a thousand 452 bracelets, as the government pays, but two thousand 515. And that should be the minimum pension. Today, in fact, the government does not pay at least a thousand dollars to our pensioners every month. 12 million pensioners, that's 12 billion dollars. Today the government has transferred external debt services to our pensioners, the government is not paying them their pension, and these pensions go to the International Monetary Fund and other funds. That is why the political "Opposition Block" requires the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to abide by the Rules and not violate our constitutional rights to the legislative initiative. We will continue to defend the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens, and I wish you to join us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u37	Thank you. So two more speeches. It'll be Vojtick and Firemark. This is going to be the final two performances. First, Vojtsicka gives the floor to Ruslan Sidorovich. And prepare Firemark.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u38	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. I want to address our fellow citizens. Ukraine has faced an extremely dangerous and dangerous situation with respect for human rights under the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which is ratified by Ukraine. Thousands, tens of thousands of Ukrainians, who have not found the truth in Ukrainian courts, turn to the European Court of Human Rights. Every year, the European Court of Human Rights rules on certain categories of cases and finds the Ukrainian State guilty of human rights violations guaranteed by the Convention and the Ukrainian Constitution. Today the situation has become extremely dangerous. It is estimated that, since there are no precise ones, the Ukrainian State owed, just think about this figure, just a fair satisfaction for about 30 billion dollars. A month ago, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the Burmić v. Ukraine case, where 12 thousand 143 Ukrainian applicants were satisfied, where the Ukrainian State was found guilty of failing to comply with the decisions of the national judges, and was obliged to pay each of them 2.5 thousand euros in just satisfaction. The 2018 budget provides only 800 million dollars for payment to Ukrainians as determined by the European Court of Human Rights. That's not enough for one decision: "Bourmich v. Ukraine." The decisions are taken by the Council of Europe for enhanced monitoring. We are falling in front of our European colleagues. In this regard, and the honourable Head of the Supreme Council, please consider my statement to be a request to the government. We ask that the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian people be informed of the time and time when we, as a government, as a parliament, will fulfil our obligations to Ukrainian citizens for the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and will pay the costs that we are obliged to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Firemark gives the floor to Maxim Burbak. And this concludes the speeches by the national MPs. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the responsible deputies who voted yesterday, and we've sent the budget to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm sure that's the same number we're going to vote for the final state budget, and it's not going to be accepted under the tree. Because this budget supports the reforms we started this fall. We called this fall "the autumn of reforms," and by the way, we started it successfully with medical reform, reform of secondary education, pension reform. And I can tell you to look at the statistics right now, my hometown of Cherniewets, third district in Ukraine, by the number of pensions that have been recalculated. But I turn to all the factions, to the deputies, to finally begin with this necessary reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Since we are reforming very much in the executive branch of power, we have embarked on a reform of the judicial branch of power, and finally we need to start reforming our parliament. All the factions' heads, representatives of the factions' secretaries next week are on their way to our European partners to discuss the reform of Ukraine's parliament in the format of the "Jane Monet" dialogue. So I think we should support the initiative of our speaker, Andrey Volodymyrovich Parubia, and tomorrow, I ask you to put in order a daily bill for reforming the Supreme Council and bring the number of committees of the Supreme Council to the number of ministries. Next. Tomorrow, I ask you to put these bills in order and consider our business in order to develop business and create new jobs, a bill developed by the Ministry of Justice of the Stop Masks Show to prohibit the impact of law enforcement on our entrepreneurs. Next. Tomorrow, please put in order and review the Law on Photo and Video Fixation of Administrative Offences That Affect Our Roads. We all need to unite in the fight to increase the security of movement in Ukraine. So once again, I appeal to all of you, to the responsible deputies, to the heads of factions, let's vote tomorrow, on Thursday, on such badly needed bills, and we will start reforming the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, about your remarks during the performances, I also want to respond to Andrew Lozov's speech. Is Andrew in or out? I think we need to prepare a joint bill on increasing responsibility for people holding weapons, including grenades, and I think that this joint bill should be adopted so that the level of responsibility is so high that we can stop this trend in our country. I would also like to respond to Maxim Burbak's words, and I am convinced that tomorrow we should include in the agenda and vote on the beginning of the legislative reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm sure tomorrow we can mobilize and support these initiatives. Colleagues, I now request your attention and ask everyone to come into the hall. We have three ratifications in our agenda, and perhaps everyone understands what would be a big risk if we didn't support or put each of these ratifications at risk. So, with your permission, as before, I'm going to conduct a rating vote to see if there's any support so we don't put our international agreements at risk. We may not accept a regulation or a law, but not ratification. And that's why I'm asking you to come into the hall so we can see the factions that are the level of support. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies into the Hall and I'm asking the factions to invite as many deputies as possible into the Hall. I'm going to put a rating vote so we can see the level of support for each ratification. Please take up jobs. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions to mobilize a special warehouse. And I'm going to put it in the order of the day to the rating vote in support of each of the ratifications. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. So first, I'm betting on a rating vote to support ratification of the draft Act on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (the Long Term Financing Project) between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (0163). Colleagues, this is a rating vote to see if the hall is ready to accept it or not ready to accept it. So I ask you to take part in the rating vote, and I ask you to vote on who to move us to this issue. Colleagues, please vote, please support, we vote colleagues. Please be supportive. It's a rating vote. [[10:47:16]] For 168 We see that there is no unity on this issue, two factions do not support it, and with your permission I will not put it. Next. The next 0164 is the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy. So 0164. Rating vote to support this project. Please vote and please support. Please enter the hall, take part in the vote. Please vote, please support the rating vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:48:08]] For 186 And the next ratification is 0169. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August the period of validity of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Investigation Mission from 28 July 2014. Please take part in the rating vote, please support. Please vote, vote, colleagues. [[10:48:51]] For-183 Colleagues, that way. There is no mechanism for us to discuss or make decisions. Colleagues, I'm not going to be ratified. I think it's a common position. I think everyone in this room supports me. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "National Innovation System: Status and Legislative Development" (from 21 March 2018) (6234). I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this idea, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:49:50]] For 113 There is no political will for a reduced procedure, so let's go to the full procedure of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "National Innovation System: Status and Legislative Development." And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u42	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft decision is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on 21 March 2018 in the Chamber of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "Legislative provision for the development of the national innovation system of Ukraine: a state and solutions". The purpose of the decision is to create institutional and legal conditions for the holding of parliamentary hearings necessary for initiating a broad public discussion of the strategic orientations of Ukraine's innovative development and the legislative provision of a national and innovation system for Ukraine, the identification of key tasks for the Ukrainian authorities, local self-government and civil society to ensure the effective implementation of the tasks assigned. The adoption of a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the theme "Legislative provision for the development of the national innovation system of Ukraine: status and solutions" does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Science and Education believes and unanimously voted in favour of the holding of parliamentary hearings to help determine the main strategic orientations for the formation of Ukraine's national innovation system and the priority actions of Ukraine's national innovation system, which should be used by the legislative and executive authorities of Ukraine, by local self-government to concentrate resources and forces to ensure the effective development of the state's economy on an innovative basis, taking into account better world experience. Dear colleagues, I'd like to add. We understand very well that now, in the context of human capital outflows, in terms of actually reducing spending on higher education, including education related to vocational education, transfer, transfer, transfer of technology and colleges, that is, pre-professional, higher education to the local budget, we can continue to have negative effects on the formation of the main component, which is human capital. Thus, the involvement of a broad society in this issue can give impetus to the solution. Let's just look at the structure of our executive power, we all do separate education, separate science, separate social issues. Who is involved in the development of human capital in Ukraine as a whole? Tell me, which one of the vice-ministers is dealing with this issue? Nobody's dealing with this. So I think that the proposals that will be made during this discussion should, including recommend changes to the relevant structure in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If we continue to assume that the population of Ukraine will be reduced if we continue to allow great migration of our young, young people who graduate from school, migration to Poland, to other countries, we will have real problems because even budget formation, the availability of adequate funds will not lead to an increase in the corresponding capital. Therefore, honourable colleagues, taking into account the above, please support the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 6234) of 24.03.2017 on Parliamentary hearings on "National Innovation System: Status and Legislative Development Security" on 21 March 2018. Realizing that we don't have the necessary number of national deputies yet, I just want to point out that non-voting or inadequate voting for the draft decree will once again show the community that for the Supreme Council of Ukraine the development of human capital is not mandatory, is not a priority, so please, if someone doesn't come, hear this call again, go back to the hall and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u43	Stay on the rostrum, Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have three more minutes to ask. Yes, please record the question. Marchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u44	I give the floor to Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u45	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, we need to support the holding of parliamentary hearings on this subject, and perhaps we really need to work really hard to gather experts, to gather those who actually have important thoughts on this issue. Because we need to work now to increase the innovation of our economy, our society in general. Because, well, the situation is that today Ukraine is transformed into an absolute raw material income and a source of labor supply, and that's all. So if that's the case, we have a very sad future, we have to change that. And actually, the question is, how do you think it's necessary for you to stop slipping Ukraine into the role of a completely peripheral raw colony, which today obviously many people are preparing both outside and inside, unfortunately, our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Thank you for your support. I want to say that unfortunately, the formation and balanced development of human capital in Ukraine as a whole and in Ukraine at all. There's no strategy, no vision of how to do it. Moreover, in my view, there is no structure in the Cabinet of Ministers, no responsible, no Vice Prime Minister responsible for this component. We are all well aware that the main component of the development of the innovation component of Ukraine is human capital. Where startups are created, where new knowledge is created, the country is an advanced country. We can see it in the United States. Where new knowledge is created, everything else -- technology creation, material production and so on -- is secondary. Therefore, we must first understand how to leave human capital in Ukraine and how young people can have access to adequate financial resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u47	Thank you very much. From the People's Front, please, Kremen Taras Dmitrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u48	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I want to thank Alexander Spiowakovsky for taking the initiative to promote the idea in Ukraine of developing human potential by example of making a decision by the Herson District Council of the decision. As a result of our trips to Luhansk, the Donetsk region, we have seen the importance of developing human capital, the extent to which the formation of consolidating factors helps, among other things, to unite people against Russian aggression. Please tell me, Alexander Volodymyrovich, what prospects do you see for legislative initiatives regarding the development of a human capital that would unite not only the east of the country but also the whole state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u49	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u50	Wait a second. Barna, turn on the microphone. Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u51	Yes. or answer? There was a question I could answer. Taras Dmitrovitch, there was a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u52	All right, go ahead. Excuse me. Let Alexander Volodymyrovich give the answer, and then, Mr. Oleg, I have given you a sure word for the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u53	Dear Taras Dmitrovitch, I want to say that only diversification of the sources of funding into the education services market can change this situation. Only the costs of government budget payers cannot change this situation. We see this, including the acceptance in the first reading of Ukraine’s budget. But costs will come to the educational services market, including from investors, when the education services market opens. So you know, we are now preparing serious proposals for additions to the Higher Education Act, where instead of a command and administrative system, a corporate management system will be introduced, where instead of financing buildings, buildings, state registration will be financed by a student who will be taught there, where instead of the lack of an education system on the market, we introduce a complete and systematic system of measuring those services that are being implemented in the education services market. It's going to involve investors and bring in big ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u54	Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u55	I give the floor to the fellow Sporish John.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u56	John Sporish, 15th Wynnickin County. Well, first of all, I really want to thank Singerowsky that this is really the issue of the innovation system of Ukraine, this is the perspective, and we have to look at it. But my question is this. Indeed, as you said before, this experience will be applied from other countries. I'd like that. From which countries exactly? And where is such an advanced experience, where could we have received it in the parliamentary hearings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. I want to say it now. To that end, parliamentary hearings are held so that there is no monopoly at any given point of view, including mine or the committee or anyone else. It's our job to get the right circle of experts involved. You know that the Committee on Science and Education has a formula for open access, creating an appropriate field of communication. That's why we're going to involve experts, including from European structures, to involve our colleagues from the European Commission, from the United States Embassy, from Germany, and so on, in order to just propose a development strategy. First of all, what I see is that we have to solve the problem. How can we leave human capital, young human capital, talented human capital, stay here and create extra value for Ukraine? If people, young people continue to leave Ukraine -- that's all, we're really going to be an accessory to the world economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you for the report, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Question time's up. And I'm asking you to record statements by factions and groups of parliament. Please participate in the recording. From Self-Help, Didenko Igor Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u59	I give the word to Alexia Screepnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u60	Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u61	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Well, of course, there's nothing to talk about. The hearings are necessary. This is not even a matter for such a broad discussion of the procedure. But I don’t know if you remember, and this is not the first time we have a hearing on this subject. Before that, we had a very large "horal" at the Academy of Sciences for the innovative development of the Academy of Sciences. And we keep talking, asking, and why is innovation so weak in Ukraine? And I think these hearings are actually going to show us one very paradoxical thing. Which is that with sufficient scientific development in Ukraine and very weak support at the same time, and we have only 0.67 percent of GDP in the next budget for science, we have virtually zero results in innovation. It's because there's a very large number of discoveries that have become "innovative explosions," like LEDs, like batteries. A lot of things have been created, about what we don't even know, about scientific inventions in Ukraine. What's wrong? The answer is actually very simple: we don't have business and science, because innovation is always a stick. And we're always talking to you on the one hand -- on the other hand, on the science side, forgetting that innovation is not just universities, it's not just human capital, it's not just scientific discoveries, but it's also how business is willing to take risks and turn these inventions into real innovation results. That's why I think it's very necessary to do this, to do it and actually invite them not only to the scientific component, not only scientists from the Academy of Sciences, from universities, but also those businessmen, those who start startups, those who launch huge projects at IT all over the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u62	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u63	Certainly, the People's Front will support the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order, but I would like to focus our colleagues on a number of aspects that are fundamentally important, especially the previous adoption of the State Budget for 2018. We are focusing today on the development of general secondary education. And the fact that on September 1st, 18th, a new Ukrainian school is launching, which has caused enormous resonance in Ukrainian society, and not only is this a big benefit, but we're giving a huge boost to re-establishing the teaching profession, to upgrade and modernize general secondary education, to restore better teaching Ukrainian traditions. But at the same time innovation is not just general secondary education, it's preschool, we have huge queues today in kindergartens, problems with the teaching community, it's also extraschool and, of course, what's on the agenda, it's funding higher education institutions in the first and second levels of accreditation, it's about colleges and technicians. We can't leave this problem today, we definitely have to solve it. And in fact, we need to help our colleagues who are preparing the workforce that are providing our production with professional professionals, with great prospects. Because innovation is primarily people who produce technologies that give impetus to new ideas. And in the time of the Fourth Scientific and Technical Revolution, which is far ahead of all European and World Powers, we have to understand that only with investment can we pull Ukrainian science, Ukrainian education out of ignorance. Therefore, I believe that not only by parliamentary hearings but also by supporting those legislative initiatives from our committee to support colleges and technology, we will be able to respond to society. Thank you. The People's Front is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u64	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the German People's Deputy. Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u65	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It is now very important for Ukraine to hear the topic of the national innovation system of the State of Legislative Security and Development. The question of science, the question of the mind and the wisdom of the nation depends on whether the State pays attention to the formation of a new generation. I am deeply grateful to my colleague Spiowakovsky, who is trying to change the situation in education today, and those parliamentary hearings are primarily for those who want to listen to people, people who are doing science, people who are doing vocational education, and people who are going to make those decisions in government, from which Ukraine will only win. What do we have? Would such parliamentary hearings be necessary? Absolutely. Will they be held? The number of deputies in the hall today seems to be short of a vote. And it's a shame that the first part of today's international treaty ratification, which is the prestige and image of Ukraine, has not even received 200 votes in the ratings vote today. Today, not only does the ruling coalition survive as an international image, but the opposition, despite the fact that there is no opposition law today. And what do we have? We have a statement by the chairman that these questions have no support. No! No! There are no people in the room. Look now, the 226-voice coalition. There's, who's supporting the parliamentary hearings on education today? Probably not. Is there anything to talk about at parliamentary hearings? Yes. Let's see how the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences is funded today. From year to year, there is a reduction in the funding of a science institution. And now we're talking about innovation while the top of this iceberg in pedagogy, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, is chronically suffering from underfunding. Today, no one is interested in the issue of youth migration. And young people will leave Ukraine. What will remain in Ukraine? We ourselves understand perfectly, the foolish, wise people who want to work here, and make the state strong, we will do nothing. Unfortunately, I am addressing Ukrainian citizens. See what happens in Parliament on Wednesdays and Fridays. They don't go to work, they don't vote, I don't say that for the laws of Ukraine, no one wants to think about the international image of Ukraine. This Parliament has exhausted itself, and it must cease its powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u66	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u67	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues. Innovation is what happens when they have the right and attractive conditions. Those countries that create such conditions become the center of science, innovation, industrial development, and wealth. Those countries that don't do this, they specialize, unfortunately, as today Ukraine exports raw materials, exports of labour talent and foreign loans, and on the eternal dependency and poverty of the population. We need to make a radical change. To change that, you need to change the rules of the game. Let's look at very specific things. For over a year in Parliament, there is a bill on technology parks prepared for second reading by our Committee of Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, which has been prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science of the previous government, imagine. The bill removes barriers to cooperation between universities and the corporate sector of the economy, that is, it has real practice in innovation, and this has not yet been considered or accepted by Parliament. Once again, I appeal to Parliament's leadership, and I ask you to put this bill first. The other one. It is an extremely important budget funding in the area of innovation. Look at the draft budget for 2018, the Innovation Development Fund -- 50 million dollars. 50 million dollars, of course, is better than nothing, but it's not enough compared to what's going to be made for innovation, because only a percentage of the government debt we pay 130 billion dollars a year and an innovation of 50 million dollars. It is clear that by doing so, the authorities can preserve Ukraine’s role as a raw colony and as a provider of talented personnel in other countries, unfortunately today, Ukraine is a donor of talents and a donor of raw materials. Third. This is tax legislation, so that innovation is not only created in Ukraine, but stayed here for taxes to be paid here, we need to create conditions for them. So the legislation on industrial parks, which is already being prepared and adopted in the first reading and is practically ready for adoption as a whole, provides for a special tax regime for new productions, for research centres, which is extremely important for information technology activities. We need to make that innovation stay in Ukraine and work here for the benefit of our economy and our citizens. Four. Of course, the power structures that are taking place in the country today, including in relation to high-tech companies, must be stopped by the power of the law, not by the law of force in Ukraine. Fifth. We need to take a complex approach to reforming the National Academy of Sciences, not allowing it to be destroyed in any way, but also not allowing it to be preserved in its existing form. Our team of the Radical Party has approached the Prime Minister with the initiative of a comprehensive interfractional parliamentary group to reform Ukrainian science and in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u68	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u69	Praise Jesus Christ! The national education system is pretty distinctive and pretty advanced, and we know that it produces good results. But at the same time, we should not stop at what has been accomplished. Thus, the education system in Ukraine is somewhat superior to the Bologna, which some have praised so much. But at the same time, we need to create a new education system that was more needed today, business, economy and society itself. And so obviously we need to pay more attention to the formation, the so-called, extra value of the students who came to universities, where many lectures are still being read in Soviet-era programs and materials. This is especially true of advanced technology, information systems, or nanotechnology. Yeah, we need to get everyone's skills back, especially from schools, colleges to universities, at the hands of those who are going to need those specialties, not to put a little bit of time-consuming to read lectures. Because who needs a graduate of a mechanics' school that was either at Nivi or at the combine, or on a T-150 tractor that's nowhere to be used in agriculture? Obviously, we need to get back to business now, to advanced technologies and to those who have really become Ukraine's pattern of economic development and to join them in the learning process, because that's the first thing they're interested in is graduating and teaching high-class specialists, and they're willing to invest in it. But at the same time, we need to pay attention to the formation of a healthy nation, a nation where students and school graduates will not be sick, will not be disabled, but will continue to rebuild the country, starting with a healthy lifestyle, starting with compulsory school meals. We need to pay particular attention to military patriotic education, because what we should be investing in is science, when after the university for the money of the people, we're going to be raising separatists in the east. And the third moment. I call on all of you, on November 19th, in the city of Czartkov, there will be the re-securitization of the 60 patriots who were shot by the Nazis in 1942. Among those shot was Father Paul Vetwicki, priest of the Ukrainian-Greek-Catholic Church, who was shot by fascists for hiding and transporting Jewish families abroad, hiding from the massacre of the Fascists. The fact is one of the first proofs that Ukrainian nationalists, Ukrainian patriots, fought and sacrificed themselves both to intelligence and to the priests for the liberation of our land.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u70	Thank you. No, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u71	I'm asking you to finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u72	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u73	And this completely refutes the facts of some Ukrainian phobias and chauvinists, both in Ukraine and beyond. I invite everyone to pay their last respects to the patriots. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u74	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Alexia Rybkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u75	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. In fact, it's very sad that when we have the opportunity to talk about innovation, about the development of science, about education, about the creation of new high-skilled jobs, we don't have enough votes to make this decision, and we do it in full procedure. And that's not a priority for the state at all. For example, in countries in Europe, I studied innovation in Britain. To Britain, for example, countries like Korea, like South Africa, like Brazil, like the countries of the European Union sending their students, sending them young people, paying them from the state budget under the One Plus Three Master's degree, three years of postgraduate school, so that after they've got the best knowledge in the world, they can go back to their country and work for the state. Unfortunately, we see that under the Cabinet of Ministers there are educators, there is a professor coming out, there are scientists not asking for any extra salary. They simply demand their own, demanding a dignified attitude. And if we're used to the protests of miners who are banging helmets, we're used to the protests of academics and scientists, when a highly respected grey-haired professor, they're just embarrassed to be there, and I'm also ashamed to be with that and ask the government to persuade them to just hand out the coins they deserve. In Ukraine, there's still a very good potential to make innovation, and we can get there, you can say, in the last car of technology in low-carbon technology. That's the thing that's being developed around the world right now, green jobs are developing the largest sector in the world. I've just returned from the climate talks in Bonn, where I've been communicating with a very large number of state delegations investing in green development, green jobs, in the development of the electric car sector, for example. We have a lot of copyright teams trying to spend electric cars for Ukraine, we have an industry here that we have one of the best lithium deposits to build battery batteries, and we in Europe are going to have a whole discussion about what is the power of the Chinese battery manufacturer, and they don't want Europe to be dependent on these technologies. And we're offering them Ukrainian lithium, but we need to create appropriate investment conditions for jobs to come here, create breakthrough technologies. The same in renewable energy, the same in energy conservation. Unfortunately, however, the government is investing 60 billion subsidies and only 600 million in energy conservation. Where they invest in energy conservation, there's a very large extra cost, a multiplicative effect. And even the public is creating a campaign, one percent of the budget, to focus on energy efficiency, which is fully supported by the Fatherland faction, and I'm the head of the relevant subcommittee. We have a lot of perspectives, but unfortunately, I don't know the energy perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u76	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u77	The energy ministry's prospects are to survive the winter, not to create conditions for innovative development. So it's a shame that the issue of innovation is not the priority of the budget and the power that we now have.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u78	Thank you. We have concluded discussions from the MPs, and now we are moving on to a discussion from the national MPs. If you would like to sign up and sign up for the discussion, please. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u79	According to today's registration in 355 deputies. According to the final vote in the 186 seats. If you look at it now, it's under a hundred. Can we continue to vote? Is it a copycat or a job? If there is no party discipline, if for most in the hall it is a job and for others who are not in the hall it is probably a vacation, then perhaps today we should close the meetings? And we need to be honest with our voters that there are those deputies who want to work in the room right now. The exception is exclusively those who are now on missions to Paris, the OSCE, and other official missions. Others, excuse me, walk. If you agree, well, that's your right. If the faction leaders. If faction leaders can't do anything with their subordinates, it's anarchy that's about to crush this Parliament. Mr. Parobius, I'm addressing you: you see, there are no people, we need to close the meetings. Thank you, but you can't talk about it anymore! Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u80	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u81	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give me the word of Silicone Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u82	Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u83	The People's Front is a responsible political power, so we will fully support the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u84	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Rybkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u85	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Regrettably, I did not have enough time to prove important information in my last speech. We want to be an innovative country in terms of energy efficiency, energy conservation, renewable energy sources, but unfortunately we have a situation where the National Commission on Energy and Utilities Control, which is headed by Mr. Wolfe, who has been appointed President, is unfortunately going to lose power in a week. Because they're going to have another round of rotation and they're going to become illegal because they have no right to make any decisions. Now they printed these decisions like, you know, this crazy printer, they did a lot of things that no one can change for six months. The Supreme Council voted on the third attempt of its candidates to elect the so-called so-called people who will elect the new members of the regulator. The Cabinet of Ministers appointed a member. Regrettably, the president of two of his men failed. And we understand that this responsibility is entirely in the hands of the President. And the fact that the regulator won't work is a disgrace. I can say that a lot of investors, the green investors, come and say, we built wind stations in Ukraine, we built solar stations, we did that, we invested a lot of investment because we believed in you that you would fulfill your commitments. And now the commission has no way of getting together and assigning them a green tariff for what they were doing -- to give Ukraine green energy. And that's a shame when we can talk about any innovative round tables, innovative hearings, and when authorities just don't fulfill their commitments that they have to make. Investors did everything they could to get funding, to attract insurance, to attract foreign money that they would build here, to create jobs, to pay Ukrainians. They did everything, but they can’t get a pen delineation from the NCREPT to get the money they rely on because they have fulfilled their obligations. So we can talk to you about innovation for a long time, we can discuss a lot of things and who and how to vote. Unfortunately, the reality in Ukraine is different. I demand that the NCREKP gather as quickly as possible to set a green tariff for all investors who have already done so. And I demand that the President appoint his constituents to the governor's electorate so that we don't hang the energy, for another six months, it was completely out of control, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u86	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u87	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people, it would seem that we are discussing today the average issue, at first glance, but it is not average at all, and, to my profound belief, it is strategic for the development of any country. It's an innovation issue. I'll give you a few digits for example. The assets of 100 of the rich Ukrainians, including Ahemtov and Pinchuk and Colomayski, are equal to just 6 percent of Apple's shares. It's an innovation issue, it's a matter of intelligence. Only a country that concentrates on intelligence and innovation has the right to develop. Does Ukraine stand a chance in this competitive struggle? Absolutely, because the world's best economist, according to Forbes, is the Ukrainian Roman Sheremet, by the way, who finished the physics and technology class, which I also had the honour of finishing. For example, the founder of PayPal is Max Levchin, who is from Ukraine. For example, Jan Kum is the founder of WhatsApp, which is used by most national MPs, is also the originator of Ukraine; and many-many Ukrainians who are today leaders of innovation around the world. Therefore, Ukraine has every chance to be a leader of innovation not only in Europe but also worldwide. But of course, Ukrainian education must be the basis for this. Let's see who today is being trained by Ukrainian universities: lawyers, economists, accountants. Eighty percent of the students, the graduates, are trained in these professions, and when they finish, they end up near a broken trough. So it has to be clear and plainly said that higher education today in Ukraine is completely deapted to the challenges that business and innovation need today. So when we talk about innovation, first of all we need to talk about changing the higher education system, it needs to be clearly adapted to the challenges that are in the world today. And the fact that the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian student and the Ukrainian youth are ready to be completely competitive in today's global world, I have no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u88	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Gooseka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I actually wanted to address the Head of Parliament, but unfortunately, Andrew Volodymyrovich had just gone, perhaps, into the general mood of not attending meetings and refusing to work had passed on to him. But I would like to pay attention to this. The last rating vote on the ratification showed that "yes" was put to the vote by 183 deputies. And all the factions and parts of the non-fractionals voted in favour. So all the factions supported the decision, but there were no more than 183 people in the room, because there was no voice "against" and there was no one holding back. That is to say, today's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is illegal, because there are 226 deputies in the hall. And the logical next step would be the overall rating vote on the possibility of continuing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. But Andrew Volodymyrovich did not. When he doesn't, he refers to the results of his morning registration. But there have been many cases where, despite the results of the registration, the Head of Parliament asked whether it was possible to continue the work of the Supreme Council, and if there were no votes, he closed the meetings. So all ratifications were removed from the agenda. And I don't understand, for example, why the Head of Parliament doesn't like innovation so much. Because it is obvious that this decision to hold parliamentary hearings is not going to get 226 votes either. They're not physically available, not even 150 votes. And actually, your honor, it's not a job. If we have a coalition called that, we need to go to work not only by sharing money and accepting a budget. That is why we call on the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be consistent and adhere to the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules, and the deputies from the so-called coalition to go to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u90	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the Romanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Of course, Ukraine is today a country that is a supply base of its talented best representatives for countries like Poland, for the whole world. And if, for example, 10 years ago or in the 1990s, labor migration was represented by the labor professions, unfortunately, today we see a mass flow of brains, the most talented part of our population, the most industrious. And these are usually young people. What must we do to ensure that creative, active youths remain in Ukraine? Of course, it's to create all the conditions for a competitive wage. Protect our first job and make sure that our young people have their own housing. It would seem to be completely ground floored things, but nothing like that affects a young person’s desire to stay in his home country and work here as his own home. If you do research, only 40 percent of the young people are under 35 years old, and they have their own housing. And even now, this trend is shrinking and decreasing. So once again, I would like to point out that parliamentary hearings are, of course, necessary. And today there will even be parliamentary hearings about the development of youth policy, and I invite everyone on occasion. But in the preparation of the budget for the following year, as deputies, we have to take concrete, effective steps, which is to put more money into the Youth Building Fund, that is to say, to do some completely groundbreaking stuff. In addition, businesses, especially small businesses, need to be helped to make start-ups, to make tax breaks, to stop the pressure on business through checks, and to create a system of loans, lost loans, and non-performing loans to young people for innovative startups. These are completely effective steps. And now I propose to all of us to consolidate and vote in favour of this ruling, for holding parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u92	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov, this will be the last speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I understand, of course, the need to hold parliamentary hearings on such a topical subject, but it'll just be a speech, let's be honest with each other. What is the level of financing domestic science? It doesn't matter. Why did the self-help representative now say that in the 1990s there was only labor migration? And because the Soviet Union of its own time, let it not be ideal, let it have its faults, but the level of funding of the country’s science was at the level. We had a country science in Ukraine that was pretty serious. Yes, it was concentrated in a military-industrial complex, but we had the best medical direction, we had the best direction of information technology. Where are we now? And we're in a state of raw material. We're not being turned, we're already being turned into raw materials. We have to admit it. And who would benefit from Ukraine being, besides us Ukrainians, an intellectually developed country with a high level of innovation in the economy? No one in principle is comfortable with international players. What do we need to create for this? I don't think parliamentary hearings need to be created and conducted, but that doesn't lead to anything. There are specific bills to be adopted. First of all, the government needs to develop at its own level a state-wide programme for the development of an innovative potential. I'm very, very hard to imagine how we're going to develop it after the educational reform. We are sciences such as physics, chemistry, algebra, geometry, and we all combine into one object. We want to move away from the Soviet past, and the Soviet past has created a whole generation of mathematicians, engineers, physicists, chemists who are world famous. What did we do now? Some bitch, some bitch, there, people who made some money, that's all. We can't offer the world anything right now. Yes, there are separate islands left, maybe even a startup, but what do we do instead? For example, if we take the information technology industry. In 2012, changes were very good for the Ukrainian Tax Code, which introduced a 5 percent VAT rate for the salaries of programmers. Now what have we done? We've cancelled this tax system and we're about to hold parliamentary hearings. We've carried out an educational reform that actually destroys our intellectual potential for future generations. What are we doing now? We're holding parliamentary hearings. Not the parliamentary hearings need to be conducted, but the government needs to develop an appropriate national programme, and we need to put it in place with specific bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u94	Please, 30 seconds. Have you finished? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u95	We need to create the most favourable conditions for transnational companies that already have the right budget for science development. And we need to propose that we introduce benefits to stimulate the investment component. What we don't do is we just accept budget food and debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and we're about to move on to making a decision. And, colleagues, I've listened to your speeches and I want to tell you something important. When national MPs try to go to the rostrum of parliament to humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament, it is wrong. And so many people around are trying to humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament. You're telling me to close the session, I could close the session, but the experience of our work shows that especially long and significant bills and amendments to them can be considered on Wednesday, so that we don't waste other days looking at hundreds of rights. And in fact, today I'm going to propose that after this law we consider a bill on simplifying business and investing. 600 straight, 600 straight. If I were to put it on Tuesday or Thursday, we would be looking at the whole day before going to the full vote. I'm actually trying to make sure that we're considering all the laws in full procedure. I'm trying to make sure that we maximize the mobilization of deputies and the filling of the hall. Therefore, there is no need to humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament. It's nice to come out of the rostrum and then run away from the hall, run away from the hall. Where is the deputy who spoke and urged everyone to come to the hall? He's no longer in the hall, he's gone. No, I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about another, I just don't want to call it. I'm trying my best. There is, isn't there? I'm doing my best to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm actually explaining the charges, and I'm explaining to you why. And once again, let me explain, 600 lines. We'll be able to look at them today, and tomorrow morning we'll be voting when they're in the room. But those 600 bars on any other day would take us four or five hours to look at any other day. That makes sense, and there is a need to organize the work properly. And the decision, I understand, is at risk right now, but this is a parliamentary hearing on March. If she doesn't get the votes right now, we'll be able to move her to that decision and vote another day. But we were able to exchange thoughts here in the hall. We were able to discuss an extremely important problem. And the chairman of the committee and the deputies were able to have a serious and thorough discussion that will allow us to accept it quickly and effectively next time without discussion. And so I ask with understanding to address the situation in the room, to organize Parliament's work, and not to humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament, because once again, I stress, too many people around, want to humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament. And I think our Ukrainian Parliament, in particular this fall, has demonstrated an incredibly effective and effective work, including because we understand each other, that we hear each other and that we can come up with common compromise decisions. Please, the closing word of Alexander Volodymyrovich Spiowakovsky, and let us move on to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two things. Parliamentary hearings are a perfectly normal balanced tool for discussing issues. That's the first one. And secondly, it's very important about the comments from our colleagues in the Opposition Block. Look, the integrated learning that's going to be done through the knee is, in my opinion, bad. I'm speaking here, from the Supreme Council rostrum. We should not confuse ourselves with the Education Law that we have adopted. The Education Act makes it possible to diversify didactic approaches to the formation and implementation of state standards. From the beginning, a teacher has the opportunity to choose, for example, the philosophy of integrated lessons, where there is unification, but not more than 15-20 percent in Ukraine of teachers will be able to do so. Next. Some of the teachers, and this could be more than 50 percent who will remain in the paradigm of subjective teaching, the subjective didactic model, where physics, chemistry, biology, geography, astronomy, these should be separate objects that have such support. And there are copyright methods. The Education Act just allows this to happen, the main thing that we're testing is the fulfilment of state standards. Therefore, the philosophy of the new Ukrainian school, where integrated learning is recorded, is one of the contexts of the new Education Act, not necessarily its implementation. So when, for example, the Ministry of Education is forcing schools to go to integrated learning, it's wrong. And I'll tell you, on the committees and in committee meetings, I've been speaking and I'm always going to be against this, because a century-old experiment has shown that no more than 15 percent of teachers are able to read using integrated learning technology. I just answered these questions. So the educational reform that we're doing is giving us additional opportunities to choose teachers, their autonomy. But how will implementation take place? This is the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Thank you. Therefore, I ask you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm going to put the motion of determination on the ground and I'm going to ask everyone to support it, and I'm going to stress that if it's not supported, the committee will be able to move it and we can vote on it another day. Everyone please take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "National Innovation System, State and Legislative Development Security" (6234) for the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:44:33]] For 165 The decision is not taken. And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine (to simplify business and invest in securities) (5592). In this bill, we have 600 rights, and we have the opportunity to discuss these rights, and tomorrow morning we have to make a decision. Therefore, I apologize for inviting the head of the committee's subcommittee on financial policy and banking activities, Mr. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u99	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your consideration is proposed for consideration in the second reading of the amendment to the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to simplify business conduct and attract investment by issuers of securities) (number 5592-d) (from 20.04.2017). 20.06.2017 was adopted in the first reading. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking received 515 proposals from 12 national deputies. This is from the national MP Rizanenko – 187, from the Martovitchki MP – 129, from Timoshenko, Krulko – 78, Doubbenko – 66, Voropeyev – 24, Denisenko – 9, Ptašnik – 8, Lavrik – 7, Levchenko – 3, Svaš – 2, Logwinsky – 2, Gusak – 1. In accordance with these amendments, 355. 355 offers are included, 160 offers are rejected. Project 5592-d to second reading is improved by such issues. On the issue of terminological legislation on securities and the Fund’s market, as well as legislation on stock companies. The issue of bans and restrictions on the issue of the circulation of securities of the issuer, which is created according to the legislation of the aggressor State. It is regulated according to Ukraine’s special sanction legislation. The issue of the issuance of securities by international financial institutions in Ukraine has been settled. Chapter III of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets has been improved, and it has to do with the stock market. An exclusive list of non-proliferation requirements for the identification of the prospectus is provided by issuers. Refined and clearly written articles on the design, approval, publication of the prospectus of securities and the period of reality of such a prospectus. The publication of a prospectus of securities in paper form has been cancelled. Standards relating to regular information about the issuer have been improved, particularly in the name of public and private shareholders. The threshold for disclosure of private stockholders has been reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent. Additional disclosure requirements for individual categories of issuers provided for in the first reading have been excluded. Advanced requirements for independent directors. individual requirements for independent directors of banking institutions. The payment mechanism for dividends has been improved, the limitations laid down in determining the quorum of general congregations and voting rights in general congregations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u100	Ask the reporter for two minutes, a very large law, and I'd like to add two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u101	Questions. The issue of selecting an auditor of the Society is settled, and the terms of the contract are transferred to the competence of the Supervisory Board of the General Assembly. There are technical adjustments in the article regarding the mandatory redemption of the sale of shares of the so-called skew-out procedure. The structure of granting approval for the commission of significant acts by the Supervisory Board of Shareholders and the commission of a deed of interest to the appropriate authority is left in its current form. There is access to stockholders' documents that contain information about the financial and economic activity of the shareholders of each shareholder who owns a significant shareholding package, which is 10 percent or more. The characteristics of corporate governance are taken into account in stockholder associations of banks. The requirements for bank managers have been improved, and the technical issues of the depository system have been resolved according to the agreed position of the NBA and the National Depository of Ukraine. There is a transitional period for shareholders to ensure that supervisory boards and their committees comply with the law for one year from the date of entry into force and other positions. The bill is expected by some 3,000 shareholders, as the 5592-d project will ensure the automatic transition of public shareholders who have not made public offerings of their shares and are pseudo-Prats, to private shareholders from the date of entry into force of the Act, the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking recommends the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u102	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u103	The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to facilitate business management and investment by issuers of securities) (registration 5592-d) on second reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u104	Thank you. So, colleagues, we have over 500 rights. And I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. Please let the committee head prepare, and I'll read the corrections that have been rejected. I'll read those corrections that are rejected, but at any direction you can raise your hand and, accordingly, put it to the vote. So I'm starting to read the papers. 5th. Don't insist. Third. Third row. Please, Ruslan Demczak, 3 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u105	3 adjustments are partially accounted for, and I think in this direction the word "capital, issuer assets" should be replaced by "capital or issuer assets, including those assets that are in the administration or are held by the issuer and so on. a right other than the right to property. And the word "owner" is replaced by the words "owner of the marked securities." Please place on confirmation this amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u106	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u107	I'm going to remind you that the committee's proposal has been taken into account on an editorial basis, and so I propose to reject Mr. Demczak's proposal, as she, the committee believes that this paragraph will be complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u108	Thank you. So I'm going to put 3 votes to the vote. The committee accepted it in part, but Ruslan Demczak insists on accepting it in general. Anyone who supports the proposal of the national MP, Ruslan Demczak, please vote, please make a decision. We're on our way, colleagues. [[11:53:14]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 14th. What are you up to?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u109	I'll get to her. 15th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 19th, Goose. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the 19th Amendment refers to a clearer definition of the concept of regulated information. But I would like to take another look at another violation of the Rules. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, you have formed your own agenda for the day. And now, yes, we're listening to the law with a lot of rights, you can actually hear it, but the day before that law there were four more questions. And you just took them off the record without voting on the Supreme Council, that's a violation of the Rules. And what I'd like to say is, who's demeaning the Ukrainian Parliament, the coalition MPs who don't go to work on Wednesdays, we're not going to do Wednesdays at all, or the MPs who pay attention to that? We urge you to follow the Rules. And I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u111	Thank you. I'll tell you that Wednesday is really hard for us to vote, although all of the previous Wednesdays we worked on. But today, too, we know that there is an assembly in one of the political parties that is not part of a coalition that is also absent in the hall. And so in this case, I am protecting the entire Parliament and protecting the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please comment, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u112	I would like to remind my honorary colleagues that the number 19 of Mr. Guska's registration card 399 was rejected. But instead, there's another piece of legislation, Mr. Doubenko, 84, which instead of the term "insider information," had the text: "and other information that was referred to such a National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets." So I'm going to say no to the correction and not count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u113	Thank you. I'm voting 19 people's deputies, Gusak. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:56:00]] For-40 The decision is not made. 23rd. Don't insist. 22nd. 22nd, please, Demczak Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, once again, number 22 is partially counted. I'd like to put it on the record as a whole. Amendments to article 1, paragraph 18, should be excluded, since the apriors’ prospectus should be in line with the laws. So a document that is an integral part of the issuer's public supply of securities, which contains additional information for the proper identification of the issuer as a legal person about its current financial status, as well as the value, volume, procedure, deadlines, payment order, payment order and so on, should correspond. must include all these points. Please place on confirmation as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u115	Will you comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u116	Yeah. Dear colleagues, regarding paragraph 18, there are other amendments that have been taken into account by the committee, including fully. That is why the support of 22 Mrs. Timoshenko (registration card 435) and Krulka (registration card 441) will be contrary to the terminology that is proposed to be taken into account. Therefore, it is not entirely possible to consider it to be invalid and impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u117	Thank you. I'm voting on Ruslan Demczak's proposal so that we can take the 22 rights fully into account. The committee considered it only partially. Whoever supports Demczak's proposal, please vote. [[11:58:03]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 23rd. Don't insist. 25th. Don't insist. 32nd. Don't insist. [[The voice from the hall.]] No, we're going to call it a 12th break. What's the readout? 36th. Aah! 28th. Excuse me. 28th row. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the definition of a foreign issuer. And we were discussing that the issuer that was created in the aggressor country was defined as a separate definition and not subject to all the legislative possibilities that are available to issuers of other countries. So I think this is 28 I'd like to put it on the whole, it's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u119	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the bill was a committee, No. 28 of Mr. Lavrik's registration card 364, and it is edited. The committee concluded that this issue was already settled by other legislation, namely, we have a special Ukrainian Sanctions Act and there are legal acts, including the NNB, the National Bank and other bodies. That is why it was suggested to consider only editorially as the matter was already considered to be settled. So I don’t support taking this into account in full volume.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u121	Thank you. I'm voting on the proposal of Ruslan Demczak so we can count the 28th. The committee considered it only partially. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:00:24]] For-43 The decision is not taken. So we're 28 to the left. Let's figure out what's next. What's the next one? What's the next one? 29th? 29th. Then after the break, we'll start with 29 revisions. Please be on time. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, we'll continue our work. It's only 29 revisions, and we have over 500 rights. At 12:30 we continue to work with 29 revisions. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u122	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please be prepared by the right-wing authors to continue our work. Let me remind you, we're on the 29th. Please come into the hall. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Reporter, Mr. Paul, we continue our work. I ask you to invite deputies to the hall and right-wing authors to prepare themselves. The heads of the factions, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall, and we continue to work on the regulations. 29th Solovay. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u123	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry that we only have 1 in 10 bills under consideration in the Council on economic issues, because, I think, after all, the economy today is a matter that should be a priority in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in particular, this law has a very important role to play, because it regulates a number of serious points in the stock market. And, in particular, Amendment 29, I think that the text proposed by the committee does not fully take into account the substance of this amendment. So I'm going to ask her to be fully confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u124	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u125	I would like to remind you that this is about the 29th edition of Mrs. Yulia Timoshenko (based on registration card 435) and John Krulk (registered card 441). Paragraph 4 of part two of the second article made several suggestions from various national deputies, and the committee approached this issue in an integrated manner. And in part, these adjustments are taken into account. Their accounting in full volume will distort the substance of the paragraph. That is why the committee did not fully support her. I'm going to remind you that essentially this bill is very important to 3,000 public stock companies that are essentially private. It allows them to automatically switch to privacy and reduce the amount of disclosure from January 1, 2018, as these stocks are private. Therefore, it suggests that we do not support the full scope of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u126	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the national representative of Solovia that number 29 be fully supported. The committee considered it only partially. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:38:01]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next. 32nd. Don't insist. 34th. 30th, Rizanenko. Please, Solovay. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u127	I want to say that both the 29th and the 30th amendments, they're in an editorial that is considered by the committee, and unfortunately they don't reflect the essence of this rule of law. And once again, I want to point out that the law is extremely important, it applies, as the reporter said, to more than 3,000 enterprises, so the relevance of accounting in general is extremely important. So I'm going to ask the chairman to make the amendment made by Mr. Rizanenko as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u128	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u129	I would like to remind your colleagues that the amendment was in the complex with the rights of other national deputies, namely, 31 Mr. Sváš (registration No. 170) and 33 Mr. Doubbenk (registration card No. 84). And it's as a result of taking into account the individual proposals for these rights that we have received a text that is complex, which has been supported by the main beneficiaries of this bill by the National Securities and Stock Market Commission, that it relates to the definitions of certain rations securities that demonstrate the participation of the owner of such securities in the statutory capital or assets of the issuer. Therefore, I consider this to be inappropriate, but it is only worth taking into account in part. So I don't support this proposal. The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u130	Thank you. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 30. Deputy Soloway suggests that she be fully supported. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. The committee considered it only partially. Please vote. [[12:40:14]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 32nd. Declined. Don't insist. 31st. Please, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u131	31 amendment, it essentially refers to the 29th and 30th amendments, in fact, it allows the complex to replicate the standards that are proposed in these three amendments. Otherwise, it's going to be the text of the norm, it's going to look unfinished. That is why I propose to take full account of Amendment 31. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u132	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u133	The committee considered the amendment and counted it only partially, as it was, I'll remind you again, in the complex it was dealt with with with with the papers, the 30th Risanne and the 33rd Doubenk paper. So I'm going to say no to the proposal to take it completely into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u134	Thank you. Those who support the proposal made by the national deputy Solovia, please vote. The committee counted only partially this amendment, please vote. [[12:41:40]] For-32 The decision is not taken. So 32th. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 35th. The author does not insist. 36th. Don't insist. 37th. Declined. 37th. Please turn on the Sugonako microphone, 37 rights, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u135	Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u136	37 Amendment, Mr. Paul, comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u137	I'm sorry, 37 revisions, she's rejected by the committee. So here the author of this amendment, in this case Timoshenko and Krulko, is the number 37 issue, their authorship, by registration cards 435 and Krulka registration card 441, according to the Rules, can be imposed, may be insisted on by the author on account of the Committee's rejection of this right, only the author. Therefore, I think we should go according to the Rules, and only Mrs. Timoshenko and Mr. Krulko can insist that it be voted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u138	Thank you. You insist. Please vote. By the same amendment? 37th? Oh, it's rejected, yeah. Thank you. The committee’s clarification is not taken into account, so there is nothing to confirm. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev, what you insist on, I can't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u139	I'm going to try to put it very simply so that you can understand what this is all about. Look, you're completely confused right now. Or follow the course of the plenary session and the chart you announce. You don't have the right to declare the amendment rejected, this time. Second, there's a 36 amendment that's taken into account, which I think is perfectly logical -- money and money. I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. And once again, I draw the attention of the chairman and the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has left, learn to follow the Rules. You have never had such a mess today when, first, you obey the laws, you don't take the vote, as it was with the first four issues of the agenda. Then you pick up and change the agenda without voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, jump to second reading. What are you doing at all, Your Honor? There are no people in the hall, have a conscience, and close the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Your honor, a highly worthy or highly unworthy faction, a distinguished national MP, a distinguished national MP, you have addressed the presiding officer, I answer you. You don't appreciate the mess in this room. Thank you for your attention. Please comment on the 36 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u141	First, I call on a colleague in the hall to take a proper view of the presiding officer and others of my colleagues. You have made absolutely legitimate use of your right to make a partially accounted for claim. So I don't even see a particular difference between the text that was proposed by the drafters of the bill and, I'm sorry, the one that was partially counted. In this case, I can even, I can call on my colleague to vote and account for the version in which she was proposed to Mrs. Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u142	Please confirm by vote. Please vote, Amendment No. 36. 36th Amendment. Please confirm. [[12:46:28]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment No. 56, National Deputy Martovicki. Don't insist. 58th, don't you insist? 62nd. Don't insist. 68th, please. Please, 67th, folk. Please, 68 amendments, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! I just asked a representative of the commission when we last had an open, stock placement in Ukraine. So, according to the National Commission, in 25 years, 26 years of independence of Ukraine in our country never happened, all Ukrainian issuers usually put their shares on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, London, or New York Stock Exchanges. Therefore, it is clear that legislation in the field of the stock market, in the area of stimulating Ukrainian issuers for the entry into the Ukrainian market of securities, clearly requires improvement, and that is what this law is about. And to my profound conviction, Amendment 68 should be taken fully into account, not as recorded in the Committee's editorial part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u145	Thank you, colleagues, for reminding us about our capital markets or the fact that there was almost no public deployment in Ukraine, and our issuers placed their shares on the European stock exchanges in Warsaw, London. There's an exception, it seems, "The Mironian Bread Product" was placed on the Western Stock Exchanges, and at the same time, he placed part of the package among the Ukrainian investors. That's why it's all about history. But I would like to remind you that this bill offers thousands of companies that are formally called public but are not actually public, and it offers them the opportunity to become private since January 1, 2018, which makes it easier for them, including the submission of information to the commission from securities, and the disclosure of surpluses, and, let's just say, to meet the unnecessary requirements that there are. As far as correction is concerned, it can be counted. But the committee counted in part, so I propose not to support a colleague's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u146	Thank you. Since this is not your amendment, we cannot put to the vote on accounting. And let's move on to the next one. 74th, not necessarily. 73 revisions. Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, this amendment concerns software and technology complexes, it's a very important amendment, and I suggest we vote on it. I'm gonna go talk to the chairman. You represent the entire Parliament. You may not respect someone, it is your personal point of view, but in all of Ukraine, you have no right to do so. In fact, you have been given your office as a representative of the coalition. You're out of the coalition, be a real modern party, be your deputy head. You went to the opposition. This is the first one. And the next. Please observe such things so that they do not offend one another. And I have to ask you. You're sitting in Communist places, well, you're doing something! Dedicate these places because God takes away your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u148	Dear people's deputies, of course I'm sad to see that. Because you're welcome. There's nothing to do, you're humiliating the Ukrainian Parliament, but it's a question for you, as you do. We're continuing our work. Correction number. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u149	As for the 73 amendments that I made, it's a 97 registration card. This right is one of the most important aspects of the bill. If in the past, or if, in today's reality, all issuers are required to report, their prospectuses of emissions and other information in paper form, and we imagine that this is about thousands of equity companies, that's the essence of the Law, and part of it is that right that the issuers can provide all this information electronically. And this is one of the revolutions of this bill for issuers. So I ask my colleagues to support this amendment, it is systematic for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Please determine how to vote. Amendment 73. [[12:52:38]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Number 74. Don't insist. Number 75. Don't insist. Number 76. Don't insist. Number 77. Don't insist. Number 79. Don't insist. Number 80. Don't insist. Number 80. Don't insist. Amendment 81. Don't insist. Amendment 84. Don't insist. Correction. 84. Please, Deputy Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u151	National MP Martovicki, 36th constituency, Pavlovgradština, "The Opposition Block." I ask you to put my amendment to the vote. It refers to paragraph 46, paragraph 11, of the bill. The proposed paragraph 5 of section 5 of article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets excludes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u152	Thank you. I beg your pardon. A comment from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u153	Yeah. Let me remind you that the committee's application was rejected and the considered alternative is number 83, for my authorship. The committee therefore proposes not to support the amendment to the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act, paragraph 5 of part five of article 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u154	Thank you. May I have your vote, number 84? [[12:54:23]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next, Amendment 86. Don't insist. Number 87. Don't insist. Eighty-five, please, People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Madam Chairman, I think in the transcript you'll be able to look after this and find confirmation of my words. I want to draw your attention to the fact that after I've put the number 36 on the confirmation, it's 37, 38. And somehow you went straight to the 67th, 68th. So I would ask you to go back to the 38 revisions and go through, as the Rules provide, after the second reading. With regard to this amendment, I would like to ask for confirmation. And for the future. Please read the Rules. There is no right for the chairman to comment on the words of the Ukrainian national deputies or anything else, to take the floor. You want to take the word, raise your hand and take it as prescribed. The Ukrainian National MP is entitled to formulate the question as he deems it necessary. And we don't need any of your advice. Stick to ethics, actually. And I would ask you to hold a plenary session in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u156	Thank you. In accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules, the chairman of the meeting ensures order, and he responds to the requests made at his address. If you appeal to the presiding or presiding officer, the presiding officer is obliged to answer your appeals. In accordance with the Rules, the draft law had been reviewed so far, and all the amendments had been mentioned. And there's no man in this room, there's no MP whose name would be missed, or whose amendment would be missed, and he would insist. Thank you, we're continuing our work. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u157	I'm going to remind you of what a colleague of mine is asking for confirmation. The point to which changes are made by this confirmation right is that the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets establishes order and volume of access, I underline the word “volume”, the access of market participants to information contained in the securities release register. This amendment, which was included, suggested that the volume should be excluded, that is, leaving only order for the committee. So that means that they had what the authors were offered, and this was confirmed, supported by the committee, let's say, less discretionary authority of the commission. Now this is about confirmation. That's why I think the committee did the right thing by supporting the amendment and leaving the commission only to determine the order of access to information and proposing to withdraw these discriminatory powers. That's why I'm asking a colleague in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u158	Please. Yes, Amendment No. 85 applies to confirmation. The committee's asking for support. Please vote. [[12:58:15.]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 86th Amendment. Don't insist. 87th. Don't insist. The '90s. Don't insist. 97th. Don't insist. 99th. People's Deputy Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u159	Yuri Solovay, 89th Gutzulščina constituency and Poetry. Dear colleagues, during my consideration of this bill, I have heard some rather interesting information, including about the placement of Ukrainian issuers of shares opened inside Ukraine. And this reporter from the rostrum said that in 26 years of independence, one single company was able to place shares, this is the Mironian bread product. I think it's a very negative signal for Ukraine. And to my profound belief, legislation in this direction clearly needs to be corrected. In addition, it should be remembered that since January 1, 19th, Ukraine must have a mandatory accumulation system, which is an additional huge investment resource, and which, in fact, much of which should be directed to the stock market as well. So I insist that 99 amendments to the stock market are fully accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u160	Thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u161	Let me remind you of the essence of what's going on. As I said, since January 1st, 18th, it's going to be assumed that all public stock companies that are called by form, if they haven't done certain things, and that their shares are included in the listing, and they've declared that they've made a public offering of their shares. If they have not done these two things, they will not be considered public and will automatically become pirates. The current version of the first reading predicted that only inclusion in what was just filing an application for a stock market and that the company was considered to be public. But it was my right that the company should, in fact, many of them did not make any public offerings. So it happened that during privatization and they all became formal public stockholders. That the company should make a proper statement that it wants to be public. And this nuance, it's kind of small. But it's very important to these three thousand equity companies. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u162	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u163	I propose not to vote in full, namely, in the one in which the committee is partially accounted for. Support the committee's version.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u164	Thank you. Well, since this is the author, it insists on this editorial that is, and the national MP of Solovay does not insist on confirmation, there is no need to vote. We're continuing our work. 106th. Don't insist. Amendment number 109. Don't insist. Amendment 111. Don't insist. Amendment 113. Don't insist. 113th? What is the correction? Is that right? So it's not your turn. Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! From my point of view, when we are considering today the Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to simplify business conduct and attract investment by issuers of securities), the amendment should be put to the vote and voted on. But before that, I am calling for a direct response to the presiding officer. There are now 83 deputies in the hall. 83 deputies. I'm talking to you. Either put to the vote or stop the Supreme Council because it's a mockery. We did not assign a review of it at the present time in order to counter our pants here in the empty hall. We either dissolve or let you react somehow to this state of affairs. 83 deputies! Let's hear it in the family, put it to a vote, but stop laughing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if someone's wiping their pants, but I do know that there are deputies working in this room on the draft law. And in every parliament of every state of democracy, there are parliaments working on second-reading bills, those deputies for whom this bill is important and where you have your amendments. Therefore, I ask you to speak on your amendments and not to interrupt the work of Parliament. No one's gonna make anyone wear a pair of pants. Please, next amendment number 114. Don't you insist? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's unaccounted for, it can't be put on confirmation. Please meet Regla. Amendment No. 113 of the Doubenko People's Deputy is rejected. It is impossible to ask for confirmation, and I remind the honourable members of the Rules to whom you have so often appealed. Please, Amendment 114. National MP Martovicki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u167	Thank you. National MP Martovicki, 36 constituency, Pavlovština I ask in paragraph 135 of paragraph 11 of the bill (there proposed part 3 of article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Market), the words “are calculated from the day following the day of receipt” to the words “stop to the date following the day of receipt of the commission”. And please explain why this amendment was rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u168	Thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u169	In the version voted in the first reading, the text is such that during the period of consideration of documents by the Nazi Commission from securities and stock markets may require additional documents and (or) explanations. Well, this procedure, it makes sense. In such a case, the terms set out in part two of this article are calculated from the day following the day of receipt of such documents and explanations. That is to say, if the commission requires an explanation, the lines stop so automatically. Your amendment asks you to specify this, as they say, well, explicitly, to make it black and white, although I see the same treatment. That's why I'm here. Well, the committee has chosen one. That's the text. But I don’t see a problem if the text of the amendment is supported by the number 114 of Mr. Martovitchki (registration card 36). So as the MPs determine, I think that's the version we're going to have.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u170	Thank you. Members are requested to determine by vote Amendment No. 114. [[13:06:13]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 117. Don't insist. Next 127. 126th. Please, folks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u171	118th. Please, 118th National MP Papiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u172	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! 118 amendment, it refers to the fact that in sub-paragraph 11 of paragraph 3, part three, in a new edition, after the words "is real and loses activity" in the words "to make a public offer." So this is a completely normal correction. But there are some doubts about my colleagues. So I'd like to put it on confirmation. And I'm talking to the chairman again. By the time my colleague Igor Shurma said that there were 83 Ukrainian national deputies in the hall, two of our colleagues had left this room, we were left with 81. Still, I point out to the presiding officer that luckily, we have the laws of Ukraine in force in Ukraine today. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation clearly and clearly regulates the issue that the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot make decisions, and we are now taking decisions when 226 Ukrainian national deputies are missing. There's no 226 in the hall today. So close the morning, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u173	Thank you. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u174	I would like to remind you that this bill deals with issues, including the preparation and receipt and approval of prospectuses for securities issued by the National Securities and Stock Market Commission. These are the paragraphs you're talking about that settle the issue and point out that the prospectus is valid for 12 months, and if the documents were submitted in parts, since the last delivery of part of the prospectus. And so, let's say, this right here is the order that's going to be provided so that parts of the documents don't count the time from the first submission. This amendment is actually for the benefit of issuers, so it's not for the benefit of the commission, and I would say so, for the benefit of the issuers. So I think that her committee did the right thing, that it counted her, and it's important to take her into account when voting on this law as a whole. So I urge you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u175	Thank you. Please determine how to vote. Amendment No. 118. The committee's asking for support. [[13:09:08]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The National Deputy of Solovay, whom you insisted? Please do it again. 126th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u176	Yuri Solovay, 79 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Poksat Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that if we talk about the economy, the economy is impossible without investment, and investment is impossible without a functioning stock market. We have a situation where in 27 years, except for one company, no one has put their shares in Ukraine, and our domestic companies are looking for capital, they're looking for investors in Warsaw, London or New York. Therefore, the legislation that regulates this process today clearly needs to be improved. And this bill is specifically designed to improve legislation in the Pats part of the work of the Prats. And as far as the 126th amendment is concerned, to my profound belief, its only editorial consideration does not fully reflect the substance of this amendment. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote in which it was proposed by the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u178	This part of the bill applies, let's say, to the prospectus for the issue of foreign legal persons in case they decide to make a public offering of their shares in Ukraine. To this day, unfortunately, there has been no such thing in the history of our stock market. But we bring legislation, including and in accordance with the requirements that we have adopted under the Association Agreement with the European Union, and we foresee this possibility. The paragraph provides for what language such a prospectus should be. It is suggested that it must be a Ukrainian language and, at the request of the issuer, may be either English or the language of one of the countries of the European Union from which the issuer originates. As a result, the committee came together in a complex manner. So let's say that there was some kind of compromise that was healthy, including not overloading the emitters. So I suggest you listen to the committee and not take it all into account, but consider only a partial amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u179	Thank you. I put to the vote Amendment 126, Solova’s proposal to take it fully into account, and the committee considered it in part. Anyone who supports the proposal of a national MP, please vote. [[13:11:57]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 127th. Don't insist. 130th. 130? 135th. 135 amendments, please, Caplin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u180	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to place 135 amendments as one that should address the issue of document sorting in the issuance of securities. The other one. I'd like to talk to the representatives of the Opposition Block who are now speaking out and say that the Ukrainian national deputies today on Wednesday, in the middle of the week, have to break up on a full-time work day. As far as I know, your political power to essentially reduce the number of national deputies to 100 members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Right now, almost 100 and let's try to work, and let's show our entire nation, the people of Ukraine, that 100 people's deputies are enough to make, in particular, such important economic bills, important decisions to stabilize the situation in the national economy and to form a stock market, a source, a tool for the development of the national economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u181	Thank you. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u182	Article 38 is also article 2, which defines a public offering by a issuer of shares or securities in the process of broadcasting. And this article defines that the public supply of securities by issuers in the process of their issue is carried out in a manner established by the National Securities and Stock Market Commission only if the prospectus approved by the Commission in the stock market is made public if others are not established by this law. So the question is also one of the key, i.e. it refers to the key powers of the commission. I would like to remind you that the number 135 of Mr. Doubenko (registration number 84) was partially counted. My colleague Kaplin, as I have understood it, also suggests that it be taken into account in part, that the author be supported, or that he still needs to be taken fully into account, in full volume. In part, we, the subcommittee, supported such a proposal, given the fullness of the proposal, the committee did not support the proposal and urged us not to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u183	Thank you. I'm voting on the proposal of the people's deputy Kaplan to fully support Amendment 135, and the committee only partially supported it. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:14:56]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 137th. Don't insist. 138th. Don't insist. 139th. Don't insist. 145th. The author does not insist. 156th. It insists, Martovitch, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Deputy Martovicki, 36 constituency, Pavlovgradščina First of all, I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. And I want to draw your attention to how many national MPs are in the room right now. Why? And what's the attitude to this bill. Why? Yesterday, when the Ukraine Budget Act was needed, this hall was complete, and our political power stressed that the bill was anti-national. Now today, do you see how this bill is needed? And I'm asking you to put in favour of my amendment, which is referred to in paragraph 3 of paragraph 12 of the bill, the word "Fund market for securities markets or through a person who carries out activities for the publication of regulated information on behalf of participants in the stock market, except in the case set out in part four of this article," to replace with the words "Fund market for securities markets other than expenses."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u185	I bet. Please comment, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u186	Colleagues, this is article 39, the disclosure of regulated information, which tells us how regulated information is revealed in the order set by the regulator. I'm going to remind you that the bill is revolutionary because, first of all, it completely cancels the paper circulation, so it cancels what happened to us 20 years ago, when the issuers submitted paper prospectuses, annual reports. It allows companies to enter the Pats, into the Prats, and deprives them of the obligation to provide, for example, quarterly information that no one cares about, it will provide only annual information. The committee rejected the amendment. The question has been addressed in the complex, there are other revisions that are taken into account, which relate to this process. So I urge my colleagues not to support the 156 (registration card 36), which was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u187	Thank you. I'm putting the amendment to the vote 156, the committee rejected it. Anyone who supports the amendment of the Martovicsky People's Deputies, please vote. [[13:17:52]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 157th. Don't insist. 158th. Please, Solovay. 157th. Please, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I am again addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding 157 amendments. It is included in this amendment. Although, in my opinion, the very words of the "regulated stock market" are more tangible and more concise reflect the very essence of this amendment. I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. And in the course of the plenary meeting. Still, I do have another appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Count, please, then, personally, here we count, there are 80 Ukrainian national deputies in the hall. You know how to do it in accordance with the Rules when there is no majority of the constitutional composition of Ukrainian national deputies and those present in the Hall. You have to close the plenary session, and this is Ukrainian legislation. I would still ask you to act as chairman in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules and close the morning plenary session. And I'm asking you to make this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u189	Before giving Paul an answer, I will respond to the request and tell you that under the Law on the Work, a national MP should be in the workplace. Would you please look to the right-to-left, where are the members of your faction that should be at work during work day? Where are the deputies from your faction at work? Where are they? I promise you, colleagues, I promise you, at the moment that the opposition block faction will be in full stock, I'm going to conduct the ratings vote and then I'm going to close the Council. When all the deputies are in place. You have 25 registered, and there are 5. Watch the cards, please stop breaking the Rules! Dear national MPs, I say. I can make a roll call to your request, a roll call to your opposition block faction, to show where the deputies are from your faction in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] And so I ask you to behave yourself, take part in the session, and pass the bill. And look at the cards, the ones that are registered, then we'll see the actual warehouse in the hall. Mr. Paul, please, about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u190	The questions raised by the colleagues in the room are about an article on disclosure of information, regulated information, and colleagues want to make the amendment of 157 of my authorship (review 97), which is considered by the committee that replaces certain terminology – yes? - "the regulated stock market" on the stock exchange. The amendment, including the amendment, was supported by both the Securities Commission and her. Why did such an offer arise? Because stock markets are defined both in legislation and in regulations, and therefore the application of such a term, a clearer, more defined law, does not allow us to manipulate or treat terminology in certain situations. The amendment, I think, according to the committee, is important, should be taken into account. And so I urge the Hall and the deputies to support this amendment, which was supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u191	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on amendment 157. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 157. The committee supports her and asks her to support her in the hall. Please vote. [[13:22:02]] For-63 The decision is not taken. What's that? 158th. Please, 158th Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u192	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, it's a key economic indicator that characterizes the development of any state, it's GDP per capita, measured in US dollars. So, based on this indicator today, Ukraine is in 106th place. This is twice as much, for example, in Romania, 4 times more in Turkey, 6 times more in Poland. There is a clear link between the growth of gross domestic product and investment, so it must be made clear that if Ukraine does not have investment, if no investment is made, we will not receive the growth of gross domestic product. The stock market is one of the sites where Ukraine can attract investment. And in particular, the amendment 158, I think that its formulation by the committee does not fully reflect the essence and direction of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u193	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u194	A colleague raises a very important question. The question is, What is it? That today, according to today’s legislative requirements, issuers are obliged to reveal the owners of the packages they own. shares that hold more than 10 percent of the shares. In the opinion of both the boards and the market participants and the public organizations, such a limit, it's quite high. I'm going to remind you that in developed stock markets in the United States, in the United Kingdom, they're much smaller than in disclosure. They're about 5 percent, they're about 3 percent, they're about 2, even 1 percent. The bill was therefore proposed in the first reading and was proposed for public shareholders to reduce such a discovery from 10 percent to 5 percent. And in the spirit of acceptance. When the bill is passed, everyone can know more about public shareholders, I think, public shareholders. It's been edited, so I'm proposing not to take it fully into account, but to support the committee's version.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u196	Decline the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u197	I'm betting on the vote that Amendment 158 was adopted in full at the request of the National MP. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. The committee counted it in part. [[13:24:59]] For-34 The decision is not taken. We'll get to her now. Please, 159th Papiev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, look at the 159 amendments. You have a table that says it's edited, although in my opinion it should be written that it's partially accounted for. Because you've taken into account the replacement of 10 by 5, you've taken into account the central depositary, but the word "heads." "voting" has not been ruled out. So it's not edited and it's partially counted. I would still like to take it completely into account, including the word "voting" to exclude it. I'm asking you to put it in full volume. And, Your Honor, Mr. Head, when you call the faction of political power, yes, we are. And you promised that after that there would be a replica of political power. I'm confirming that today we have the Opposition Block present in the hall. I thank every Ukrainian national MP who, despite the fact that you don't include in the agenda the daily drafts for the authorship of the National Deputys of the Opposition Block, they're still walking. No bill of ours is in order this week. Please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u199	Thank you. I always give a replica, and there are no exceptions to any factions. And, Mr. Mikhailo, I will remind you how our Hall unanimously supported your bill on. What's the name? About the ring traffic on the road. And the whole room fully supported this bill. And so to say that no bill is being considered is invalid. And I'm sure there'll be bills that support the hall. We will put them, we will consider them, and we will give them a positive verdict. And the reply, I emphasize, is that everyone in this room who's been offended, whether a deputy or a faction, gets hurt. And you just let me know, I'll give you my word for it. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u200	The question raised by a fellow MP is also about disclosure of information about the owners of major packages. Just in the past, it was about public stock companies, and it was about private stock companies. I want to apologize to my colleagues, because I've already raised this question a little bit in the past, and I said wrongly that for private shareholders, it's proposed to leave 10 percent. This right suggests editing the first reading, which gives 10 percent of the exposure limit, lowering it to 5 percent. According to both the stock market and the commission and the members of the profile committee and the public, this disclosure of owners will contribute to greater openness and transparency of business. So the committee supported this amendment, as I said editorially, and suggests that it be supported by a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u201	Thank you. I understand that the bill was partly taken into account, and the National MP, Mikhailo Papiev, suggests that it be accepted in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u202	Yes. I'm going to take part in the proposal. But we obviously have to put it right anyway. I understand that Mikhail Papiev offered to have it in its entirety. I'm putting Michael Papiev to the vote. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:28:53]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we'll be there by 170. I'm just saying, we've got half an hour left, 400 left. I'm asking you to work harder. 160th. Don't insist. Martovitchki insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u203	Deputy Martovicki, 36th constituency, Pavlovgradščina. I am now addressing the citizens of Ukraine and the national deputies who are present and working in this room. Yes, indeed, the bill is important. And only 129 amendments were made from me, 63 of which were taken into account or in whole or in part, there are a number of amendments that have not been taken into account or rejected. I'm talking to the chairman right now. Sir, Andrew, if this project is very important, the draft law is going with violations of the Rules, please. Mr. Andrey, I ask, given that the draft law is under discussion, it goes with the rules, not with the amendments that have been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u204	Thank you. And on the 160th, do you insist that we no longer put the vote to the vote? Don't put it. Then I don't vote. But you comment, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u205	I want to remind my colleagues that Mr. Martovitch was very active in the second reading of this bill, for which I am personally grateful and very grateful to the committee. And it was only 129 amendments, this is the second record of the number of amendments to this bill, which I want to point out is that 66 of your amendments, i.e. more than half, were counted. Thirty-nine are fully accounted for. The rest of these 66s, they're taken into account editorially, essentially, and so on, and so on. That's why the committee listened to your opinion. But the amendments of the other deputies were also rejected in part. More than 50 percent of your amendments were included. And the committee always compromised, where it didn't contradict the very essence of the bill. So I suggest that the amendment be rejected, as I suggested that the committee reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u206	MP Martovicki does not insist on voting. As I understand it, he generally appreciates the fact that we put the bill into consideration and took a direct active part in his preparation of the bill. I think tomorrow he, like all the national MPs, will be happy with the victory when we can adopt this bill in a second reading. And thank you for understanding the situation in the hall. Let's move on to the repairs. 165th. Yes, please, Demczak Ruslan, 175th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, once again, the bill is partially counted. I'd like to put her to the vote as a whole. The point of the amendment is that regulated information by the issuer, to select the issuer, was, in the first reading, revealed either in English or in national language. Well, given our position, I think it needs to be taken into account in order for it to be revealed in English, and in another language, in addition, at the request of the issuer himself. Please put to the vote for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u208	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u209	I would like to point out that this is the regulation of 165 Mrs. Timoshenko and John Krulk, and it is taken into account in an editorial and substantive manner, including this right and the right of the other authors involved in this paragraph, that it is essential that Mrs. Timoshenko insists that the prospectuses of the issue be regulated in Ukrainian. And besides, it's at the wish of the issuer himself, who has all the effort to prepare this information or the prospectus in another language, or at his request in English, which is the language of international business communication, or in any of the countries of the European Union. It's all taken into account in an editorial way, so the committee has taken the matter into account in an editorial way. Therefore, it is suggested that my colleague’s proposal be taken into account, not editorially. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u210	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 165 and I'm proposing to Ruslan Demczak that we take fully into account this amendment. The committee considered it in part, and I would like to vote on who supports the proposal. Please. [[13:33:36]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 166th. Don't insist. 171. I understand. I don't insist. 173rd. Not in half. 170th. Please, 170th. Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u211	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party. We ask you to place number 170 for confirmation. The other one. As we know, the development of the stock market in Ukraine, the internal stock market is a guarantee and an opportunity to establish full independence from the International Monetary Fund. As we know, the political party that advocates Ukraine's independence from the International Monetary Fund is known to everyone for the Life Party represented here by Rabbinic and Shufric. Questions. Where is Shufrich and Rabinovich here, why are they not at work, and why are they not protecting Ukraine from the International Monetary Fund? And I'd like to make a point to the representatives of Opoblok, and I'd like you to get used to it, just like all Ukrainians, like everyone here in the faction, that there will be only 100 people's deputies in the next Parliament, 51 of whom will be representatives of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u212	Replica, Shurma, one minute. And then I'll make a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u213	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm talking to that Lenin from Poltava right now. God forbid, you go from Poltava a mile to Kiev at all, and then you will talk about your presence in the Supreme Council. Let me remind you that a bill is now being considered that will have an important role for Ukraine in part of the investment. And if you want to ask specific MPs, find them and ask them. No one closes the door in front of you, and you won't have to cut it with an axe. So please go to the people and get an answer, I think you'll get a decent one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u214	Let's not start interfractional hostility when we consider a serious bill, but let's focus on the work on the bill and, in a friendly way, let's systematically complete the review of rights. Sir, Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u215	The draft of the bill in the first reading was intended to clean up a certain one, as was thought to be a stock market, anachronism, where shareholders were given prior consent to commit significant crimes. It's the stockholders' congregations, well, in other countries it's not there, it's referred to, there, the board of directors' competences and so on. And that was the first reading proposal. But a series of, let's say, experts have suggested that we keep this mechanism for private shareholders. We've got a lot of stock companies where a lot of shareholders, they're going to stay private until we get through the car, and that kind of mechanism, they're going to be taken out. So they asked him to leave. And with this right, this mechanism has remained a certain exception for certain situations. We have taken the proposal of a colleague who proposes to take full account of the committee does not support and does not offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u216	Thank you. I understand you insist, yes, definitely? 170 revisions are taken into account editorially. People's deputy Caplin insists that we take it into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:37:38]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. 172nd. My colleagues, I very much ask the right-wing authors to work more intensively because we still have too many rights left. Please, 172nd. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u217	National Deputy Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party. I'd like to read an editorial that's been adopted in the first reading of regulation 172, and I'd like to read some information about the commission of significant crimes or of the crimes of interest. We would like to confirm, put on confirmation, and take fully into account our suggestions for the revision adopted in the first reading. And the faction colleague sitting in the corner on the right, I'd like to say the following. I went not a mile from Poltava to Kiev, but 333 on foot in 7 days, with a gift set of Yanukovich, which you then handed out with an inscription on the T-shirt "I'm Going For Your Janukovich's Soul". And believe me, our political power, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, will come after every oligarch and cleanse our country of the oligarchy. And this document needs to be carefully worked to become, in fact, independent of the International Monetary Fund and to develop an internal stock market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u218	Thank you. 172. I'm proposing to the People's Deputy Kaplan to support her fully. The committee is only partially supported. Please vote. [[13:39:29]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Not all were able to vote. Now I'm going to propose to go back to the review. Please mobilize the National Deputies. The author does not insist, does not insist. Please read the next report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u219	Thank you. Next amendment number 173. Don't insist. Number 174. Don't insist. Number 177. Don't insist. Number 180. Don't insist. Number 182. Don't insist. Number 183. Don't insist. Number 185. Don't insist. Number 186. Don't insist. Number 189. Don't insist. Number 190. Don't insist. Number 196. Don't insist. Number 198. Don't insist. Number 199. Don't insist. Number 200. Don't insist. Number 202. Don't insist. Number 203. Don't insist. Number 204. Don't insist. Number 206. Don't insist. Number 214. Don't insist. Number 217. Don't insist. Number 223. Don't insist. Number 230. Don't insist. Number 231. Don't insist. Number 232. Don't insist. Number 234. Don't insist. Number 325. Don't insist. Number 238. Don't insist. Number 243. Don't insist. Number 244. Don't insist. Number 251. Don't insist. Number 256. Don't insist. Number 257. Don't insist. Number 262. Don't insist. Number 264. Don't insist. Number. 258. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the table says that the amendment is edited, but I would still like to ask you to vote in the paper in which we proposed the amendment. And as you can see, the bill that was adopted in the first reading actually divided stock companies into two categories. These are public stockholders' companies for public offerings and shares that are admitted to stock markets and public equity companies that are compared to private equity companies, and private equity companies, non-public companies. Thus, the requirements for equity associations should differ, not in principle, from public stock companies to private equity companies, but from public companies to public companies. That is why we have proposed, in our opinion, a good definition of public stockholder society and would like to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u221	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u222	This is a question raised by a colleague that is essential, that is, the question of defining a key one of the bill in question and it is settled in the bill in question already. That is, those companies that are considered public or that rotate their stock market shares and whether they have made a public offering of shares that we have very little. So I think the committee has already counted and adjusted the moment. Therefore, the committee believes that the amendment should only be taken into account in an editorial manner, as it was done, not in general, as it is now proposed in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u223	Thank you. You insist, don't you? May I have the amendment number 258 of the Ptašnik People's Deputy, the Committee has taken the editorial opinion, please vote. [[13:44:04]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 262 revisions. Don't insist. 264th. Don't insist. 263rd. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u224	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party. Please insert, for confirmation, number 263, in paragraph 2 of section IV of the bill, the word "in the name of the association may be referred to as the type of shareholder society" to exclude. And I would like to emphasize once again the importance of this bill. It allows us to take an extremely serious step in the development of the stock market and in general the financial market. This is necessary in order to form real, fundamental foundations for the development of national goods, the internal market. And I would like to emphasize and point out that, according to recent sociological research, 68 percent of young people want to work abroad. And today, every national MP is supposed to be here Wednesday to speed up the development of the Funding Market, which means stimulating the development of national production, which means the competitiveness of our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u225	Thank you. Please finish your proposal from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u226	Let me remind you, it's in the first reading. What's going on? Today, in the name of a stockholder society, we are necessarily referring to its organizational and legal form and its type of form, that is, public or private. But let me remind you again, we're going to move on to the fact that we have almost everyone by accident. With the exception of that, maybe tens will be private stockholder societies, at this point in time, in the future, it might be different. And the bill predicted that the type could be mentioned in the first reading. And the proposals that have been proposed cannot be changed, and the type of shareholder association is not necessarily part of the appointment of a shareholder company. So, I think the difference isn't big enough, but. As the hall will be determined, so will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u227	Thank you. Do you insist on confirming this amendment? Please correct number 263 for confirmation. please accept 263 amendments. Please vote. [[13:46:58]] For-39
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u228	The decision is not taken. 270th. I'll give you my word, but please, colleagues, 250 more amendments. Please, 270, Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u229	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party. Please place item 4, paragraph 5, in the next line for confirmation of Amendment No. 270. Fifth, in article 24, part one in paragraph one, the first word “publicly” is deleted. I want to take this opportunity separately. 26 years ago, as soon as we gained independence, there were about 7.5 thousand large industrial enterprises active in Ukraine. Our state in ratings was the 18th, I emphasize, 18th in the world at the level of industrial potential. During the 27 years of reigning here and genocide here at the International Monetary Fund, we've lost about 5,000 enterprises, we've lost tens of millions of jobs. Today we're in 180th place in the world according to industrial potential. Therefore, the adoption of similar laws and the presence of national deputies is essential for our parliament and our country. And I urge you to vote on this bill and those amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u230	Mr. Paul, will you comment? Can it be put to the vote? Then I place 270 votes on the ballot, insists that we take it fully into account. The committee counted it in part. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:48:53]] For 20 The decision is not taken. So 273. Don't insist. 280th. Don't insist. 286th. Don't insist. 288. Don't insist. 298. Martovetsk took out all of his amendments. Appropriately, 302nd doesn't insist. 304th. Don't insist. 308th. Don't insist. 305th. Yeah? 305th, please, Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u231	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I am grateful to all the Ukrainian national deputies who are carrying out their constitutional duty, who are present in this room, and who are working on this very important bill. I am especially grateful to our colleague, Mr. Martovicki, for his constructive approach to this bill being adopted in a normal manner. He withdrew all his comments and suggestions to this bill. And I would ask very many Ukrainian national deputies to speak before declaring that this amendment should be submitted for confirmation, but I would ask everyone here not to talk about ideological differences, but in fact the bill under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And with regard to social democracy, that's a normal, good idea. I would still like to reconcile the founding fathers of social democracy and the new generation of social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u232	Mr. Paul, comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u233	I'll tell you. Regardless of what seems technical, it is vital for the integrity of the Law. Therefore, I propose that the law be upheld, and it should be in the text of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u234	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Mikhail? Confirming 305 revisions? So, colleagues, I'm putting 305 votes to the vote, and the committee counted it. But National MP Mikhailo Papiev demands that it be confirmed in the hall. Please vote, and the committee is asking her to support it. Please. [[13:51:21]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 306th. Don't insist. 308th. Don't insist. 311. Don't insist. 315th. Yes, please, 315th. Demcak Ruslan, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u235	315 revisions, again, partially counted. I want to put it to a vote to take it into account. The point of the appeal is that it was not fully defined that the decision of the general congregations to select an external auditor, an audit firm, was taken for the current year. But usually, audits are carried out in previous years, so I ask the law editor to determine that the decision of the shareholders' congregations chooses the auditor to be audited for the current and past years. Please place the confirmation in the editor, in the original edition and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u236	Thank you. I'll ask you not to comment. I'll ask for an offer. Turn on Paul’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u237	The whole committee does not support accounting for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u238	So I'm going to put a motion to vote so that a total of 315 amendments are supported. The committee counted it in part. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:52:58]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 319. Don't insist. 321. Don't insist. 322. Don't insist. 328. Don't insist. 332nd. Don't insist. 333rd. Don't insist. 336. Don't insist. 340. Don't insist. 346th. Don't insist. 351st. Don't insist. 352. Logwinsky doesn't insist. 361. Don't insist. 362. Don't insist. 363rd. Don't insist. We're going well. 364. Don't insist. 375th. Don't insist. 381st. Don't insist. 384th. Don't insist. 400. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u239	We can. I'm afraid we won't be able to vote. And the fate of the issue will be decided by Ruslan Demczak, who has a principled position on the law. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u240	Thank you. Similarly, I would like to place a total of 390 for confirmation and delete the changes to Article 65-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u241	Please comment, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u242	I'm going to remind you that this particular chapter is about disclosure. And another important aspect of this bill is that it proposes to destroy the SMIDA monopoly, this is a state-owned enterprise on a securities commission, a stock market that monopolizes the submission, disclosure of information from issuers of securities. The bill suggests that, in addition to this, it should be possible for shareholders to enter into agreements with disclosure agents. This. This service can be both paid and free. And there's going to be a quick disclosure in pay mode, in free, in 15 minutes. So this is another important aspect of this bill that I wanted to bring to the MPs as the drafter of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u243	I'm voting on a proposal by Ruslan Demczak to have 390 allowances fully counted. The committee considered it only partially. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[13:55:55]] For-30 The decision is not taken. So I'm going back. 395th. Don't insist. 395th, this is Martovitch's repair. He made all his adjustments. It's rejected. That's impossible. 400. Don't insist. 406th. Don't insist. It's impossible, it's not Martovitch. Okay. 405, please. Capplin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u244	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In the end, at the conclusion of today's work, I'd like to place 405 revisions on confirmation. And to emphasize to all of our fellow countrymen who are looking at us right now that it's about creating new jobs and developing a national economy, increasing the gross domestic product that has the effect of increasing wages and resulting in an increase in pensions. Look at the Parliament Hall, look at the presence here of party leaders, look at the presence here of the assets of these parties of the National Deputies. Every year in the election, they hang on boards and the first thing they write is creating new jobs, increasing pensions and wages. And in fact, today, they're avoiding taking part in an extremely important fundamental debate about the break-in of the Ukrainian economy. Make conclusions, dear Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-15-m0.u245	Mr. Paul, I understand the suggestion to consider a total of 405 revisions. And I'm voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Kaplan to have 405 allowances fully accounted for. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Please. Hold on and don't make a mistake. [[13:58:22]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, let's figure out where we're going to end up. 406th. Don't insist. 411. Don't insist. 419. Don't insist. 421. Don't insist. 426th. Don't insist. 431. Don't insist. 432nd. Don't insist. 445th, Denisenko. Don't insist. 446th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 447. Don't insist. 449th. Don't insist. 450. Don't insist. 451. Don't insist. 453, Bird. He insists. Let's start tomorrow. That'll be wise, I think. So we figured out where we're going to end up, this is 453. I want to remind my colleagues that the entire right is 515. So tomorrow, I hope that we will be able to complete the consideration of the bill within 20 minutes, for 25 minutes, and for a positive vote. And I want to point out that actually all the factions participated in the drafting of this bill. I want to thank everyone who worked and prepared this bill. Today gave us a chance to consider this bill and tomorrow to make a positive decision. I think it's a success and a committee (he'd have to wait a long time for this decision) and a parliament. And I hope, and I am confident that tomorrow we will make a positive decision on this bill. And in general, I hope we have a very powerful day tomorrow. Reformary, progressive bills are being prepared for tomorrow. And so I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room at 10 a.m. to continue our work. We don't have speeches from deputies and factions. We're gonna have to start work first thing in the morning, 10 o'clock. I ask everyone to come with discipline. I'm going to remind you that we're starting with 453 revisions. I wish everyone fruitful and effective work on the committees. Thank you, rapporteur, to the committee for an active discussion. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed according to the Rules. See you tomorrow, colleagues! And good work on the committees.
