ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please enter the halls and prepare for registration. Are you ready to sign in? I'm asking the people's deputies to register. Please register. [[10:05:30.]] 334 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputies. Jacob Bezbach. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And Wadima Krivenka. We welcome our fellow national MPs. [[Applause]] Today, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Prime Minister Groisman, are traditionally taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to our government. But before I go to "the hour of questions to the government," I'm going to read out a statement that came to the fore from two factions: "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front" -- a break that they're willing to replace for a performance from the rostrum. And I give the floor to two factions of Yuri Berezi. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u2	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! I wish I could. Dear colleagues from the government! Dear colleagues from the government! I'm sorry, I'd like you to listen. Colleagues from the government! On Wednesday at the National Security and Defence Committee, one of the highest officials of the Ukrainian state, Vice-Speaker, allowed some words to be heard by the Ukrainian army. And those words aren't easy. Those words were terrible to me. What's scary is that a Ukrainian soldier today is on top of an illegal and illegal defense of our Ukrainian state. You know, these two nights have been scary when the guys at the front phone call you and say, "What, did you go nuts on the Supreme Council, what did you agree?" I'd like to ask the faction that posted Vice Speaker, that's the madness of one person or that's the madness of your party and faction, please. A Ukrainian soldier, a Ukrainian volunteer who has given his life since he was 14, in the territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, you know, Self-Help, the most excited of all is the fifth column. They're applauding you right now -- the fifth column is what you did. The fifth column rejoices only. The fifth column will say that a Ukrainian soldier kills civilians, and the fifth column will say that Vowa Putin is beautiful for Ukraine. They're already saying that. They're waiting for a rematch. And here's a rematch, starting with the statements of senior officials. I would like the political power first to give a political assessment, a moral assessment of the performance. Because unfortunately, it's being distributed to all the central Russian media right now. And it spreads out in the context that the Ukrainian state did not happen, that there is no order in the Ukrainian state, that there is no Ukrainian Parliament. Surrender! If it wasn't for those guys who protected Ukraine in 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th, if it weren't for those guys sitting in the trenches right now, you wouldn't be sitting in the Ukrainian Parliament in the peaceful city of Kiev. Could you be waiting for Putin to arrive as well as the fifth column? Putin's not coming. I don't know if maybe it's worse for you, the better. Boys and girls, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u4	First of all, I'd like to ask the official to apologize to the Ukrainian soldier, because this is the person who allowed you to sit quietly in peaceful Kiev and in peaceful Lviv. And let's put it this way, your self-help colleagues, let's go over and produce laws that will allow the Ukrainian soldier to really, really be protected in the first place. [[do not hear]] the events of the Ukrainian government officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u5	Thank you. One minute, a line. And let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. Who's going to be the replica? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainians, you have just witnessed another lie and another manipulation used by the authorities, unfortunately, using coalitions to cover up soldiers. Indeed, there was a committee meeting and, indeed, a vice-speaker said that today the boys-heroes who are standing on the forestep, who have gone, just as I once went to this forefather, to protect the country, they have fulfilled their duty and have stood up for the country. But those who have come to power here for three years are afraid to recognize Russia as an invader. For three years he is afraid to say that it was Russia that occupied the territory. And it was vice-speaker who pointed out that the authorities today should carry out their task of coming here with these populists who today shared this power. And finally, finally, to have Russia drawn in all courts, not just in Ukraine, but in all international courts. It is the Constitution of Ukraine that obliges the President to make decisions regarding the use of the Armed Forces. It is the Constitution of Ukraine in its 85th article that speaks of the Supreme Council as giving its consent to the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to counter aggression. Until the Supreme Council calls the aggressor and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u7	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u8	And we're not going to name the whole world that's occupying Ukraine today, we're putting up a soldier who can be attracted under international law by what's called an aggressor. And today you are helping the aggressor to use the international field and international legislation on those who put their lives, health, and against their relatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u9	We're moving, according to the Rules, to an hour of questions to the government. And today, a speech will be made before the Ukrainian Parliament by the Minister of Social Policy, Andriy Alexiyovich Reva, and then there will be questions to the members of the government from the national MPs. Please, Andrew Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! On July 13, 2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted draft Law 6614 on pension reform in its first reading. The bill is now being finalized, as proposed by 81 people's deputies, in a clear procedure with regulations and is being prepared for consideration in the second reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement at its meeting on September 6 is working on 2 000 151 amendments to the Government Bill and prepared for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. So for the time being, we're looking forward to seeing him in the session room. But often, both inside and outside this room, we hear the question: why won't the government take and just don't raise the pension without any reform? Yes, of course, raising pensions, increasing their size is a priority of the government, which will be decided under any circumstances, long awaited by 12 million pensioners, most of whom live outside the poverty line. But this step can't be the only one, once-in-a-lifetime increase in pensions doesn't solve all the issues, in order for people to get a decent pension, its size needs to be increased every year. The problem of the pension system is much deeper than the simple increase in pensions. We find that, in today's form, a solid pension system is not viable and without radical modernization, there is no way to ensure a further increase in pensions if it comes to the next election, it would be possible not to reform simply by increasing pensions. Here we'd like to mention the statement by the famous British statesman Winston Churchill that there's a difference between a politician and a statesman, although politicians and statesmen think about the future, but that's the future they understand in different ways, the statesman thinks about the future of the country, and the politicians think about the future of the elections. So when we hear calls just to raise pensions without reforming, it's a signal to us that such slogans raise politicians who think about future elections. So we go back and forth to the question of how to provide a decent level of pensions to people, where to take money, and why we have such petty pensions. There are many recipes, most of which are political slogans: take the money, take it there, take it there, and give it back. A lot of recipes, but it's all about how money is spent in the government budget, not in oligarches, but in the salaries of doctors, teachers, and other people. Let me remind you that the source of the pension payments is the Pension Fund of Ukraine, our goal stated in the law is a three-level pension scheme, i.e. the possibility of getting a pension from three, but its basis, its foundation is a solidarity pension system. It's not designed by us, it's man-to-man in every country of the world, and it predicts the implementation of the principle of solidarity between generations. The working generation pays the contributions that are used to pay the current pension. The country’s solidarity pension systems take into account their specificities, but they are necessarily built on basic principles such as the financial sustainability of the system and the proper income of the participants in the insurance system who have fully complied with the insurance requirements. Is our system capable of providing such principles in its present form? The answer is no. Now, let me remind you that today almost every second penny in the Pension Fund that goes to small pension payments is the government budget of 141 billion dollars. At the same time, the average pension is a thousand and eight hundred and eighty dollars. In fact, the Pension Fund does not have the capacity to provide a better level of pension insurance. But the question is, can we actually build a non-deficit model of a solidarity pension system? We say yes. To do that, you just have to answer the question, what is the nature of the deficit that occurred today? Has there been a government in Ukraine in 25 years that would not want to increase pensions? That was not the case, the desire to raise pensions was common to all, and why was this not done? Because, as the hero of the famous Soviet film said, "our desires did not always coincide with our capabilities." Despite this, instead of modernizing the pension system, decisions were made that balanced it, more and more resources were involved in financing pensions from the state budget, introducing unfair rules on the distribution of these resources, when the same pension was given to those who had a large working life, and those who had only worked 15 years. In fact, the rise in pensions became a state charity, when the realization of a person’s right to a pension depended on the will and desire of politicians who were in power. But a solidarity system must have its own sufficient financial resources, fair distribution rules and an economically sound model to ensure the autonomy and self-regulation of the system in decision-making to increase pensions. So as we worked on the pension reform, we set ourselves a task. First. Increase pensions and at the same time change the solidarity system in such a way as to restore social justice in pension insurance, guarantee pensioners a permanent automatic review of pensions irrespective of the political will of governments and generally restore people's trust in the pension system. So the inadequacy of the Pension Fund has to be laid down in the very conditions of pension insurance that all of its participants have to adhere to, in front of you on the first slide, the mathematical model of the inadequacy-free pension system. The non-deficiency mechanism predicts that the amount of contributions that a person pays from a person's salary during his work is S1, which should correspond to the area S2 in the amount of pension benefits that he receives after retirement. The period for calculating pensions, that is, the time we have to pay people, is defined as an actuarial retirement age of 18 years. Why is this figure taken? There is a difference between the overall life expectancy in Ukraine for men of 60 years, for women of about 70 years, and the actuarial retirement age. It's not a secret that young men of 20 today, when they're 60 years old, are going to be less than a third, but those who live to be 60 on average live to be 18 years old. That's why it takes 18 years as an actuarial retirement age. The key condition of this model is to determine the length of the length of the insurance period enough to cover the pension costs of the Pension Fund, please look, 35 years is not the whim of the government, it's not the desire to be abstract, it's the strict need for the time that is correlated in order to accumulate to pay to the Pension Fund the amount that a person will then receive in the form of a pension. In the current terms of pension insurance, the rate of the sole social contribution of 22 per cent, the minimum wage of three thousand 200 dollars, this correlation is ensured by the payment of contributions over 35 years of employment. So once again, it's not the desire of an abstract government, it's a strict necessity. The second condition of the Pension Fund’s inadequacy is the strict maintenance of the minimum wage/minimum pension ratio. The minimum wage should be such that payment of the minimum social contribution for 35 years covers the minimum pension costs for 18 actuarial years. What we had in practice, please take a look. As of January 1, 2015, people with a minimum wage ratio and a minimum pension for 35 years of employment would have contributed 194 thousand dollars to the Pension Fund and would have received 204,000 dollars from there. In 2016, the EU’s rate fell from 38 to 22 years. Up to 22 percent, this ratio is getting worse. And people during their 35 years of employment would have paid off a minimum premium of 127 thousand, and they would have to pay in the form of a minimum pension of 231,000. You're half the pension deficit already institutionalized. And only after the adoption of Law 1774, do I want to thank everyone who voted in favour of this law, have we been able to change that ratio. Since January 1, 2017, when the minimum wage has become three thousand 200, you see how the ratio has changed. Now, in 35 years of work, people pay 295,000 dollars, and they have to pay 269. Thus, for the first time in many years, it was possible to increase the income of the Pension Fund. So that's why it's already been accumulated in the Pension Fund this year, a resource that's been able to raise pensions since October 1st. I'm paying attention to you, not at the expense of printing money, not at the expense of external borrowing, not at the expense of increasing grants from the state budget, but only at the expense of the funds that were paid to the Pension Fund in the form of a single social contribution, and what's important, without raising its rate. Thus, the introduction of new requirements for insurance, the establishment of a strict minimum wage/retirement ratio will provide the basis for the long-term deficit of the Pension Fund. We cannot move on to such requirements right away. And that's why we're proposing a 10-year transition. Since January 1, 2017, the insurance period required for the retirement of 60 years will be 25 years, and by 35 years we will go 10 years. That's why inadequacy can only be achieved after the end of this period. What the government says is that inadequacy is only going to be done for 7-10 years. Next, since January 1, 2018, the bill has made it possible to retire at 60 years of age to those who have worked and paid contributions for 25 years or more. That is, we do not increase the retirement age, which is very important for those who have already completed their full insurance and would have to continue to work. That would just be unfair. The following year is foreseen for those who are between 15 and 25 years of age and who have reached retirement age, to pay them special government assistance at the minimum of living, and they, even if they were paid a pension, would not have a larger size, but not at the expense of the Pension Fund, but at the expense of the state budget. So we are the government, the state takes responsibility for those people who, for various reasons, couldn't even have 25 years of insurance. Please take a look at the third slide. As a result, we have to balance our own incomes of the Pension Fund and its expenses in payment of insurance pensions. Let's see how the income and expenditure of the Pension Fund changed as a result of changing key parameters as a result of the two previous reforms. Two key parameters: the EU’s rate and the cost of one year of insurance. By 2008, the balance sheet was more or less maintained, i.e. the revenue was determined by the size of the EU, the corresponding cost of one year is 1 percent. In 2008, this balance sheet was changed. When the cost of one year, a calendar that man worked and paid, was increased by 35 percent. In fact, working 35 calendar years, a 47 - year - old person was enrolled in an insurance scheme. The question of where they took another 12 years remained open. But then this issue was resolved as follows, it was resolved by increasing subsidies to the state budget of the Pension Fund. And this practice, involving loans from the State Treasury of the Pension Fund, lasted from 2008 to 2014. And I'd like to tell you, dear colleagues, that today's outstanding loan to the State Treasury is at the expense of 48 billion dollars. At the dollar rate at the time, it's $6 billion that's unliquidated. The reason is that they increased the costs without the mechanism, without the sources of their coverage. What happened in 2016? Look. To these problems, by increasing spending, we added another problem, we reduced by 40 percent the income of the Pension Fund. And look at the ratio that we have today, the income and the expenses. Please tell me how you can talk about these conditions, not about the increase in pensions, but just about their payoff. So if we're responsible people with you, we have to do everything we can to balance the pension fund's budget. This is our national responsibility with you. That's what people expect of us. That's how. That's how. In order to balance the pension fund, we need to use it more precisely to correct the distortions that have arisen there. What happened after such things? Each government was faced with a question. You either have to pay small sums to new retirees, or you have to look for money to raise pensions for old retirees. Of course, how did governments do it? New retirees, you're not going anywhere, you have to pay. What about the old ones? They were waved and returned at five or more years of age. So after receiving a pension, five, six, seven, eight, ten years later, the person jumped into poverty. And I'm asking you to show me the next slide. Look, this is a terrible sentence for our pension system. You have a very good example. We have an example from 2008 to 2017, when 11 people who have the same insurance status, the same amount of wages they've been getting, see how different their pension is! If they got out in 2008, they have a pension today at this rate of 678 dollars! And if they came out in 2017, 2,000 134! Three times. That's what these balanced things at the Pension Fund led to. Yes, they were paid to a minimum of living. So we have eight and a half out of 12 million pensioners who receive the same pension -- minimum. This is the result of our previous decisions. If we're going to fix this, we have to look at these balances. In 2012, they tried to review and modernize, but again, this was done in 2008. Thus, all pensioners who are now retired for more than 10 years are outside the poverty line, walking with their hands stretched out. Here's the next slide. What the government has to do. By changing the cost of one year's internship, we're reducing our initial pension to 35 percent of our replacement rate. But look at how we balance the pension insurance to the extent that a person lives on. It will not go into poverty. The red, you see, what it loses and the brown, you see what a person gets. That's more important. Because the older the person, the more he needs, the more he needs the medicine, the more he needs the other things he needs, and most importantly, he can't earn at a later age. Even when she's 60 years old, she can still make money, she can still work. But a person over 65 can no longer do so. And we promised them poverty. In fact, there is a principle in the pension system: The longer you live, the worse you live. It's immoral, it's not fair. And our duty with you is to correct, to make these people go out of poverty. We suggest that, to remedy the situation, we upgrade pensions on the sole wage principle, that we stop playing with coefficients, that we go back to the only principle: to raise wages. Only this enables both people to live better and to receive additional funding without artificial coefficients to increase pensions. And the first step, after we vote for reform, is to increase the basic size of the average wage to 3,000 764 bracelets this year. What will that give us? This will give us an opportunity to fix the situation for pensioners who were not counted at 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 years old. We can't get through the 15th and 16th years right away because there's no financial resource. But next year, if we adopt reform, we're going to take the second step, because we have the money to raise all the people -- and those up to the 14th, and after the 14th, and make their pensions equal to those in the 18th year -- in the 19th year, they're going to retire. That's what reform is all about. So that we don't limit ourselves to one promotion. And so that this promotion is annual. This is a key task. So we're putting in both the calculation formula and the increase in the pension, clearly depending on the amount of the salary and the duration of the payment of the premiums. These are basic things that have been put into pension reform and that have not been reviewed during the second reading. I'm explaining why? Because that's the foundation, that's what reform stands for, that's what allows it to balance and create incentives for people to work and pay contributions. Because today the person who works works works in construction. By the way, we have a very interesting situation that has affected construction. We have a growing industry, the physical volume of construction is increasing, and if we believe in statistics, the number of workers is decreasing. We are building houses with holy spirit. But you understand perfectly what? Because that's where they work in shadow work. Where does it come from? The employer, by involving a worker, and you're less than 10,000 dollars from a bricklayer, he won't work, but out of 10,000 dollars, the employer won't pay. And he says, Ivan, do you need money? Yeah. Are you 15 years old? Yes. But you already have a pension, I'll pay you in an envelope, you work and I'm happy. When we change the requirements for insurance, this agreement ceases to work, John is now inconvenient. He now says to the employer: Either you pay, or I look for another. And that shortage of personnel on the construction market today will make the employer register and pay. By the way, after we raise the minimum wage, we get 400,000 new payers, and now we're going to get 4 million on our estimate. This is the reserve that will allow us to raise pensions, legalize people so that they have state social security in pay and work. I want to say that the bill was drafted by the government, it was an expert on international organizations, it was reviewed by the National Reform Board, it was made, it was re-examined, it was reviewed, taking into account the National Council for Reforms that was tabled in Parliament. The first reading is considered. And I'll tell you that the second reading by the people's deputies has made very serious changes. I want to hear some of them. Yes, especially the Supreme Council committee was supported by the initiative, the amendment of the head of the committee of Denisova Ludmila Leontievny, so that, as of January 1, 2028, if a person is 40 years old, he will retire regardless of age. So if someone has less insurance, they go later, and someone has more, they go early. Thus, each individual determines when to retire. It worked for 40 years, 54, 55, 56, you retire regardless of age. A very interesting amendment was taken into account by the national deputy Kugel. It covers the enrollment for entrepreneurs. You know that legislation has changed, and people should not be held hostage to change legislation. A decision was made at the suggestion of Alexandra Volodymyrna. Work experience from 98 to 2000 is taken into account by the fact that the subject is registered for entrepreneurial activity. Because raising in 20 years what he paid and how, physically impossible. From January 1st to December 31st, 2017, the traineeship is accounted for regardless of the size of the pay, because the size has changed. If a person has paid a penny, we'll be counting it off for a month. Since January 1st, 18th, we're going to pay, account for internships at least. Yeah, minimum premium. If less, then proportionally paid contributions. At the suggestion of the National Deputy, the sale of Oksana Petrovna is intended to preserve the right to an early retirement for years to perform at theatre and other performance establishments, and on conditions that were before that. Today we have 30 years of internship and 55 years. Imagine a ballerina that has worked for 55 years. Now we're returning to the old 20-year internship regardless of age, a person may have to retire. We are working on the proposal of the national deputy Shuhevich, to improve the mechanism for calculating pensions for income by the year 2000 and after 2000, so that there is no discrimination, no calculation of the size of pensions, we too take on this responsibility. The National Deputy Solovya, 60 national deputies of Ukraine, proposed the introduction of a cumulative pension system from January 1, 2019. The government supported this proposal. This is the dedline that we take on. At the suggestion of National Deputy Seminya Roman Sergiyovich, a rule has been introduced for the audit of the Pension Fund, for the introduction of a register of recipients of social benefits, benefits, subsidies, pensions and other social benefits. So the bill is very much worked out, it's very different from the government's choice to the Supreme Council, we've taken into account all the positions that didn't apply to the basic elements of this reform. What will bring about the adoption of reform? First: an increase in pensions as early as October 1, 2017, the government will make individual pensions to each pensioner in the shortest possible period, including an increase of 9 million pensioners from October. Second: the same date will cancel the special terms of the pension for pensioners who work, the pensions earned will be paid in full, without any reduction. Third: the legislation will guarantee an annual index of pensions depending on the level of inflation and, attention, and the increase in average wages, i.e., the increase in pensions will be made automatically, regardless of political decisions, by clear rules and economic mechanisms, in the 2019-2020s, by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. by your decision, the honourable national MPs. Fourth: there will be no more retirement levels for all workers, which will restore citizens' trust in the pension system, we will no longer have 15 and sometimes 20 legislative acts that define different retirement conditions for different categories, which created a sense of social injustice and which our citizens resented absolutely deserved. As a result of the law, we will ensure, in the medium term, the inadequacy of the insurance system, in which there will be a direct dependence on insurance contributions paid during work and on the extent of pensions after retirement. The implementation of a solidarity reform is a prerequisite for the further development of the pension insurance system, namely the introduction of a second level of pension insurance, a mandatory accumulation system, and the development of a voluntary accumulation system. Dear National Deputies! Of course, for this bill, only the first, the next, we are obliged by the law we passed, to submit to you by November 1 a bill on the increase of pensions for military personnel and this is also our sacred duty. Soldiers, officers, those who are fighting, those who have served before are also human beings, and we have to provide them with a recalculation of pensions, an increase. For the prestige of a military specialty, the prestige of a man in the form that protects us all has been dignified materially. Dear National MPs, the bill is expected in society, people are waiting for us to make decisions and their practical implementation. I want all of us to be real statesmen, let's think about the future of our country, and leave politics to our successors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u11	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to record a question. I recall that the records are not made by factions but by national deputies and therefore will not be given a single word for factions. Please be careful to participate in the government’s enrollment. Ready? Please record a question to the government, 30 minutes. Thank you. So, colleagues, the first word is given for the question of Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u12	I'm handing Barney over.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u13	Good afternoon, government officials! I'll have a question for the acting minister of agrarian politics. There are two liquor factories in my district, and there are a lot of them in Ukraine, obviously the activity of the alcohol industry, which is headed by the state-run Ukrispirt, at present, is not very effective. Obviously, we understand that the centralized administration, through which Kyiv must decide how much to buy gloves and how many brooms to buy, is very ineffective, so I'm going to ask you to get rid of or offer to cancel Decree 672 in order to restore legal personality status in the liquor industry or at least to form regional alcohol associations that will make the industry more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. As for the firm Ukrispirt, I want to say that the only way to further develop this enterprise is to privatize it. The relevant bill was approved by the government and submitted to the Supreme Council. And I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the national MPs to support this bill when it's being considered. With regard to changes in the alcohol management system, the relevant working group at the Ministry was created and we met with you, Oleg Stepanovich, in this working group, we are working on how we could make decentralization management of alcohol companies, but the main task that we face in this direction is not even worse than it is now. So as soon as decisions are made, they will be duly drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, there's just been a performance, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u16	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u17	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today’s meeting began with a debate about Ukrainian troops and why they are in the East. And I remember 2014. Andrey Parubay was at the National Security Council at the time, and Alexander Turkinov was actually doing the duties of the President of the country, and I remember how our east began to burn, not only Lugansk and Donetsk, the Burner of Odessa, the Mount of Kharkiv, and, thank God, was able to stop this flash that could take half of Ukraine into Ukraine. And that was because the Ukrainian troops, after the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament to apply them in an anti-terrorist operation that did not conflict completely, of course, the Constitution of Ukraine to stop this flash that Russia made right there in that small area of Donetsk and Lugansk. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, when we talk about east today, about conflict, about how to solve this problem, let us not pyrate our bills and fight for them. Let's make a compromise and consensus here on how we are today to conduct the occupation, obviously, of the occupied territory of Ukraine. Without this unity, there will be no success in the key issue for Ukraine -- the war with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u21	Will someone answer from the Cabinet of Ministers? Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. And what I'm saying is that the three years we've spent in unity, there's always been a victory. For three years, when the government and parliament and the President of Ukraine built a clear strategy, not only did we rebuild, we made an invincible Ukrainian army. I would like to thank the people's deputies who are the foundation of the Ukrainian army. And I would like to thank everyone that today the President, government and parliament have built a strong forward-looking strategy and a clear vector of cooperation in Ukraine's unity, its invincibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u23	Thank you, Ribak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Minister of Ecology. Minister, please tell us, since January 1, two fundamental serious laws, namely the Waste Act, article 32, which was amended in 2012, on the prohibition of the export and disposal of waste on unprocessed sites, and the PRTR Act. How are we going to implement these laws in Ukraine? And how are we going to implement, and how are the organs of local self-government, when they have absolutely no infrastructure for handling and handling waste, what are they supposed to do? Or are we going to delay the adoption, the taking of these laws, or is there any other way that the government is working today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ivan, for asking. In fact, before starting the answer, I would like to emphasize that the government, the Ministry of Environment and the Committee of the Environmental Parliament of the Ukrainian Parliament are working closely and working together on the implementation and preparation of a new strategy for public policy on waste management, including solid household waste. Now it's about. Which, by the way, will be presented at a government meeting in the near future. Now, about the law you're talking about. Of course, all the standards of current Ukrainian legislation must be implemented, and that is the basis for our stability. The law that you mention places responsibilities on local authorities to do this work. More precisely, there was sufficient time for local authorities to prepare themselves for the implementation of their obligations. If, of course, an appeal to the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian government from local self-government authorities to correct this legislation, let us, along with the committee, sit down and discuss it with the Ministry. But on the occasion of your question, I would like to say that exactly a year ago, the Ministry of Nature initiated and created an interactive garbage dump map in Ukraine. This service worked for a year. It contains some 6,000 official garbage dumps and several thousands more unofficial garbage dumps. In a year of service, there are several conclusions. Unfortunately, there is no time to speak in more detail, but one of these conclusions is that local self - government authorities, who are authorized, who have functions that even have the resources to do such work, are not always ready and do not always pay the utmost attention. And the disaster that occurred in Lviv is usually a vivid example.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u26	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u27	A powerful example of such incompetence of local self - government authorities to work. I would like this law, which you, a distinguished national MP, mention, to be a new stimulus and an incentive to activate local self-government. For example, I would like to say that the environmental tax, which, 80 percent of the costs remain in place, is not used by local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u28	Thank you. Next question is Lapin Igor Alexanderovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u29	Good afternoon! Lapin Igor, People's Front. I have a question for Mrs. Ulyani’s acting minister of health. Mrs. Uljana, please tell me, we have a great system for state purchases called "Prozorro." Please tell me, when are we going to return this question to the Prozorro system about the purchase of drugs? And the second. We have, as far as I know, an organ that will be responsible for the purchase. Please tell us, on what principles and ambushes will the relevant body work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u30	Thank you. This transfer of purchases to an international organization was a temporary phenomenon. When the law was in the 15th year, voted here in the Supreme Council, there was no "Prozro" system and passed on to international organizations to reduce corruption. We have a report from the Accounting Chamber that this was the right step, that 38 percent of the price was reduced and it's right that we did it. But at the same time, we're creating a purchasing agency that's going to work in Ukraine, and this agency is going to be buying drugs through the Prozoro system, but we're also going to go to the world market so that we can get the most high-quality drugs and the best prices. A project to create a strategy for how the purchasing agency will work is already there, is posted on the Cabinet of Ministers website. And if you wanted, I could take it off for you personally so you could see what the new agency would look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u31	Thank you. Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich gives the word to Novinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u32	Thank you. I have a question for Vladimir Borisovich Groissman and the Minister of Culture of Nistuk. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to draw your attention to the situation surrounding the Kiewo-Pechersky Lavre Museum. You, speaking in Parliament on Tuesday, called for unity. Instead, the Minister of Culture is creating another source of tension in the heart of Kiev, in Kiev-Pecher Lavre. When, instead of conducting an honest, transparent competition, a performing officer was appointed who had no experience in museum work at all. On three occasions, representatives of the Ministry of Culture have disrupted the competition. A person is appointed who has come to the post and is already starting to fire deserving museum workers, historians with a great deal of experience. I ask you to consider my question as a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Today, I'm going to assign the Deputy Prime Minister to deal with the information you've provided. But I stress that the task of the competition is a completely objective, transparent selection of the most worthy without interference with this process of direct authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u34	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u35	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Igor Stepanovitch, please tell us what is the share of the billion that should be used to modernize mines, government mines? And what has been done by the government to ensure that there is no debt by the end of the year on wages for miners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. He has to say that as early as May last year, the prime minister of Ukraine set up the Ministry of Energy to diversify the fuel structure of TEC and TEC, which are working on an anthracite coal group. The ministry has managed to reduce its consumption by three and a half million tons over the year. The following year, another three and a half million tons. And in 2019, Ukraine will not need an anthracite coal group at all. Yet, the absence of anthracite coal groups leads us to be obliged to increase the release of a coal gas group produced in Ukraine. So I thank the MP who voted and supported the Ministry of Energy's proposal in the 2017 budget to allocate a billion dollars as support to the coal sector. In particular, it's a bank guarantee, not a net asset, but a bank guarantee. To date, I have to say that all the government mine projects have been conducted in the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Energy has developed a fully planned use of these funds. And the next Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will consider how these funds will be used. It should be said that the use of these funds will allow an additional two, two wholes per year of production of a gas group of coal produced in Ukraine. 2 million, about 2 wholes. Two tenths of a million tons of gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u37	Is anyone answering or already? So, Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u38	Aunty Ostrecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u39	Mr. Prime Minister, your personal attention, please. A large number of VAT payers are returning with regard to tax blocking. They're medium-sized enterprises, manufacturers, carriers, builders, for example, with building materials at the entrance, and the output of the work done, so their overheads are blocked. At the same time, large enterprises in general are excluded from the monitoring system by the Ministry of Finance according to their criteria. There are cases where overheads are not released within a five - day period, software that is not properly implemented by the Ministry of Finance is not working badly. Very many complaints, Mr. Prime Minister. So I ask you, under your headship, not to address this matter immediately. The meeting was called, and under your headship these issues were resolved. Because otherwise we're going to have to initiate a bill to continue the test regime. Please note both the issue of VAT payers and the blocking of tax slips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Our job is to create absolutely normal business conditions in the country, and in particular VAT compensation on a transparent system. We finally put this system in place with you, and I think we've put a dot in the multi-year system of bribery and repo in the VAT system. Our government, we've eliminated this scheme, today is a fully automatic system. I'm taking into account what you said about the possibilities of imperfect work, but I know exactly that today there is no corruption in VAT, and that was a very recent norm, without a refund, no one could get VAT. And now it's all working transparently, openly, publicly and automatically. We fought for it, and today we put it in place. Let us consider your question. I will now assign the First Vice Prime Minister, together with the Minister of Finance, to hold a technical meeting so far and to give me all the information I need to make the necessary decisions. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Sisoyenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u42	I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, you are always talking about the need to reduce the level of mortality in our country. This is how important it is for the government to start doing this, not in words, but in concrete actions. This year is the first year of your premiere when the government has not allocated funds for the development of emergency medical care. And the areas of Ukraine didn't get the money to create the only dispatcher. Emergency medical care, to buy emergency care machines. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the need for emergency care machines is not even 50 percent of the real need. And you realize that it's after the strokes, the heart attacks, the trauma after the accident, whether or not an emergency ambulance comes and when it comes, that it depends on people's lives. So once again, I call on you to find funds in the government as quickly as possible for the development of emergency medical care and to provide them to the areas of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u43	Thank you very much for your question, from the point of view of overcoming the greatest problem of our nation, this is, I would say, the early mortality of Ukrainians. We are taking steps that will lead us to solve a number of painful problems, including providing medicines, including we have launched a program of affordable medicines, and this program will have an impact on the reduction of mortality in the country. We've launched 13 cardiocentres in the country today that will make it possible to technologically save the lives of Ukrainians and reduce the mortality rate of cardiovascular diseases that are now equal to 68 percent in the mortality pattern. So we're taking some steps. But what I want to point out is that today we're channeling through various programs, starting with the State Regional Development Fund and ending with socio-economic expenditure, we're sending 10 billion dollars to the territory, including to develop and acquire new techniques for emergency medical care. Now we're going to analyze the actual state of affairs of how many of these projects have been implemented. But I have to agree with you that this job needs to be strengthened. And next year we plan to increase health spending by 10 billion dollars plus, including the reform that I hope we will be able to implement in the Ukrainian Supreme Council Hall. This will enable us to concentrate our expenses, including perhaps updating or replenishing a new fleet of ambulances in the country. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u44	Thank you. Laño passes the word for the question to Jacek. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Prime Minister. I have a question of this nature. On July 14th, after my speech, you commissioned Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rosenko to activate the work and to form a working group for the first time in 30 years of independence in Ukraine, almost 30 years of independence, there was a situation where childhood would be completely financed. It means, from a pregnant woman to a child, to treatment of any kind: from ORVI to, God forbid, oncology of children, and any rehabilitation, everything was financed by the state. What is made of this question? The second question. We have a rally under the Supreme Council today. And yesterday, a one - year - old girl who didn't expect her turn to be treated abroad, unfortunately, today we have to increase by 300 to 400 million already this year. What exactly is being done? And question three. Ukraine is the only country in which there is no artificial, not related, transplantation. It's the only country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u46	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, according to this, including thanks to you for the initiative to create an appropriate working group, Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman gave immediate instructions and, to date, the composition of the working group has been formed, and I have personally held three working sessions prepared for the meeting of this working group. Indeed, we set out two basic points that today relate to the health system, including the protection of children. The first is a system that has to work in Ukraine to ensure the life and health of children. And secondly, you've made the right thesis about treatment abroad is that we can't at the right level because of the technical potential of the problem, because there are no professional doctors to provide in Ukraine, and we need to respond immediately and ensure that children are treated abroad. Here are the two main problems that the working group is focusing on and focusing on, once again, three appropriate work sessions have already been held. And I promise that at one of the following meetings, I will definitely invite you as the initiator of this address, and you will participate in this meeting. As for treatment abroad, let's say that another 4 or 5 years ago, the state provided for 14 or 15 children a year abroad. Today, with the budget funds offered by the government today and supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are today providing, if I'm not mistaken, about 400 patients who can be treated and given adequate treatment abroad. Yes, indeed, at the beginning of the budget period we had 200 million dollars fixed for this need, for treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u47	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u48	We've got 200 million planned, thanks to the people's deputies for supporting the government's initiative, and we've added another 187 million to the state budget, including children abroad. So we increase the amount of funding, we increase the number of people going abroad -- that's our policy, and we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u49	Thank you. Kostenko Pavel Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u50	Please, the word of Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u51	First question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I will ask this question until the government finds a solution. What further prevents you from making decisions about restrictions on purchasing goods in Russia that may be produced in Ukrainian territory or from purchasing in partner countries? It's about coal, fertilizer, scraped gas. You are well informed that the oligarchs who control these sectors are interested in continuing to finance Russia by buying these goods from them, but why should we continue to allow it? And a brief question to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Awakov, which ended the investigation into the whereabouts of the Douban next to the traitors of Ukraine, from the so-called East Battalion?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u52	Thank you for your question, the government is taking all measures to make our economy strong and diversify all markets, including supply. Unfortunately, we are forced to stop the purchase of coal today, including our own Ukrainian production, in most of the areas that were in the Ukrainian mines in an uncontrollable territory, we are now modernizing opportunities to increase, including the acquisition of a group. the coal gas group and this is on the Ukrainian mines. So we're interested in fully self-sustaining ourselves, including coals. But I also want to inform you that our government has taken measures in the last year, and we've already increased its yield, actually, of Ukrainian gas. We're counting on at least 600 million cubes this year to be serious enough. So our task is to build our energy and economics, including independence. In fact, we've been doing this program, we've been reducing it over a year and a half, we've reduced the consumption of an anthracite carbon group to a gas group, we're developing other alternative species. We work and we do. Moreover, government companies don't buy any kilos of Russian coal, and you know it. So from the point of view of the states, we've just taken a course to completely give up any addictions, especially those that were previously from the aggressor country. Moreover, we have been living for over 600 days without a drop of Russian gas. We're working on this issue, and the fate of any of these goods is decreasing literally with a jet force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u53	Your Honor, I don't know if it suits you to call someone a traitor, whether Colonel Koloban or here some deputies called a traitor to Mrs. Siroid, I don't take it now, and I want to formally tell you that the relevant data is in the Ukrainian Security Service, and she's doing a background check.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u54	Thank you. Skuratovsky Sergey Ivanovich. Skuratovsky is handing Oleg Valeriyovich over to Lashkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u55	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, for a long time our team has asked the government to return to the state administration gas distribution networks that have been taken and used for free today by the oligarchy of Firthash, Ljowczyn and all of this troop, billions of Ukrainians from their own pockets are paying. These oligarchs are getting rich. Ljočkin built himself a new Mezigorje under Kiev, and for $300 million he bought property in France, hundreds of millions of dollars, and airplanes. I'm asking, how long will you allow Lewtash to rob the Ukrainians? Don't pick up gas prices, don't pick up tariffs. [[Applause]] the loss of the state budget. Why do the gas distribution networks built at the expense of the state budget, at the expense of the Ukrainians, serve not the Ukrainians, but the proceeds of their exploitation go not to the Ukrainians, but to the pockets of the oligarchs of Ljovcín and Firthash? When are you going to cover up this corrupt office? When you stop robbing.?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u56	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u57	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. Thank you for asking. We are, of course, taking action, including working together with the Attorney General's Office, and I think we're about to go to the finalization of these positions. You know what the task force is doing. This is a legal issue that needs to be solved. Once again, I stress that we are working to diversify, including gas supplies, both in Ukraine and through gas distribution networks. We're working with local authorities today and we encourage them to take over, municipalities, these gas distribution networks, most of which are now owned by municipalities. So we're dealing with this. And we will do everything we can to diversify gas supply networks, on the one hand, and on the other hand, not to let anyone take advantage of the monopoly. And I don't care what the names are, we won't let anyone rob Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u58	Thank you. And the last question is still less than a minute. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u59	Ivan Ivanovich is not here, and for him, he gave me his word. He gave me his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u60	Colleagues, such things are not practiced, but please, Sporish. We will not allow such things to continue. Slow down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u61	Thank you very much. I think we listened to Minister Reva very nicely today. And it's nice, though, that our pension or pension law will be passed. But I would like, Mr. Reva, to have the common people, the common people in the village in particular, asking for something to change for them. To make it easier, you could say that, in two words, you said that you should wait for the simple peasants today who are getting a small pension to raise them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u62	Thank you, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u63	Dear John Dmitrovich, I fully share your concern and your pain for the people who work in the village today. I'll tell you more, today, if you take social security, not just pensions, people in the village, unfortunately, today have a much lower level of social protection. You remember that only 65 years of pension insurance was introduced. You remember that the size of the villager’s pensions was always low. And so today, I announced it, we talked about it. about Mr. Suhevich's initiative, which we will now consider in order to correct those who have the lowest pensions. And this amendment is in our law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u64	Thank you very much. Colleagues, questions, time for questions is up. Now I've got two factions applying for a break from the Radical Party faction, Self-help. And I'm giving you three minutes to perform. Who will act? Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u65	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues and deputies, please show these posters to the Prime Minister. Volodymyr Borisovich, this yacht, which costs $300 million. The owner of this yacht is the oligarch Baron Kosyuk. This property, built under Kiev, is estimated to cost billions of dollars. The owner of this property under Kiev is Kosuk, an oligarch, an agrarian oligarch. You might ask why we show you this: yachts, possessions? The answer is one, these yachts, the property is built for donations to Ukrainian farmers. Last year, when we convinced you and I were trying to get these 3 billion dollars of donations to support farmers to go to farmers only. You've accepted such an order that 60 percent of the billions of donations receive an oligarch of Kosyuk. Farmers can't get 50 grand for cow subsidies. You're paying billions of compensation from the state budget to get them to buy hundreds of millions of dollars in yachts and to build property under Kiev, and in the Ukrainian village, you won't find a cow with fire soon. I have a question. Why should billions of donations go to the oligarchs on their yachts and possessions rather than to Ukrainian farmers? We ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to change the order of grants and grants immediately so that the money will not be given to the oligarchs on their new yachts, planes and properties, but that the money will be given to Ukrainian farmers. We call on the Ukrainian Parliament to support our bill, which introduces an agrarian-cheese assembly in order to channel the funds received to animal subsidies, so that every rural family holding a cow gets at least 5,000 dollars per year of state support. So that farmers who have 100, 200, 300 cows can get a government grant. The billions that come from the state budget should go, not on the yacht, not on the "goats" property, but on the restoration of farming in the village, animal farming. The message for the development and restoration of the village is animalry. There's no price for milk today, people are cutting cows. 4 billion dollars are budgeted instead of going to the villagers to go to the oligarchs. We demand a radical change in funding arrangements and channel these funds to support a specific farmer, to support the farmer, to support the singles, to support those people who keep the cow in their farms. Stop robbing peasants. And under the cover of the peasants, to enrich the oligarchs to build new possessions. That's enough!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u66	Colleagues, before I go to reading the parliamentary requests, I'm still giving the word to Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. And then we move on to MP's questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! In fact, the agricultural sector, which forms almost 17 percent of our GDP, the country, is very important to our economy, especially, you said right for Ukrainian peasants. In fact, the order of support approved by the Ukrainian Parliament today provides for support, not for a particular entrepreneur, but for a particular manufacturer. Those who produce more will receive more subsidies. Is that fair, it's hard to answer today. But today we need to form a program. And you're speaking today in the words of the government's 2018 program. In 2018 we anticipate an additional 1 billion dollars in support of small farming. What's more, we're not anticipating, we're talking about Ukrainian farmers. I think next week, the government will be approved by the end of the month by the government, along with Ukrainian farming, a support program for Ukrainian farming. This will provide an opportunity to support small and small farms. It's our job to have a job in the country, pay and produce. A third position that is very important. If you want to change the usage order of the resource, a minute, if you want to change the usage order of the resource, it was said correctly, you can do it in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. We'll back it up. As for 2017, support. Not only did we provide support to producers who are producing products today, but we provided support, including those who are producing agricultural products, for 20 percent of the value of such products. What I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u68	Stop feeding the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u69	What I'd like to say. I would like to emphasize one thing, not "stop feeding" someone, but start feeding the Ukrainian people quality! A quality national product with a normal quality price. Importantly, it is vital that animal breeding begin in Ukrainian villages. And what we're proposing in the 18th year is the revival of Ukrainian animalry. I call once again on the people's deputies, if you think there are problems, please change this formula, because this is all approved by the Ukrainian Parliament. I'd like to touch on another subject, and it's very important. But I would like to point out that our mission with you in the 18th year is to start building up the capacity of our animal complex: animal farming in the country, bird farming. We're a really serious exporter today. Our task is to achieve, and I think that we will achieve a reduction in the price of meat within the country in the next few weeks. I think we're going to do this, it's going to be an opportunity to do this this year, so I see it, we've been doing this yesterday, and this whole week. But I stress that it's important that we do this right now, along with you, and do it effectively enough to make people feel that way. We need to make changes and support, not for large agroholdings, but for small, small farms. You can write that down, and I'm going to stand up for that so that we can regenerate the economy in the countryside, taking into account the possibilities of decentralization today. Dear colleagues, I would also like to draw your attention to the speech, and I think it's quite professional, a quality speech by the Minister of Social Policy. The following week is not a sessional one. A week later, we have another session week to start. We have a huge responsibility. The question everyone needs to answer is, we support a change in the pension system, so it leads to an increase in pensions in the first phase for 9 million pensioners out of 12 or not. I'm deeply convinced that the absolute majority supports this. And I want us to make sure that, next sessional week, we adopt a decision on pension reform to allow the Pension Fund and the government to make calculations on new pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. So that we can adopt an extremely important health reform and transform the month of September into a real reformer September that will enable us to change the situation in both the economy of our country and in the social services of education, health care and pensions. But this can be done only when we are united and united. I believe in our mutual victory. Thank you and wish us all success. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u70	Thank you. I thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers for their participation in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Good luck, productive work. Colleagues, we now have 30 minutes under the Rules to read requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, with the permission of our esteemed speaker, let us put to the vote the issue of cancelling the break of 12 hours. There were so many requests that I could vote them. read them all, advertise them and then make us go to the amendments. Let's vote off today's break from 12 o'clock. Please, I think we have potential. Please support cancelling the break. Please, I'm addressing all factions, please. Dear colleagues, we vote. Potential is, come on. There's a lot of questions over the summer, I want to read them all. [[11:25:05]] For-100 There's no potential. Let's move on to the questions. We'll be making inquiries for 30 minutes. By factions, please show the cancellation of the break. There will be no disgruntled speeches today, there will be only 30 minutes of requests straight and then we will move on to the amendments that we stopped at yesterday. Don't bother, please. All right. "Crazy" will be. We will follow the Rules and the Rules. Jury Odarchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a haberdashery-weight complex in the territory of the Novorontsov region of the Hersonian region. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for taking appropriate steps to lower the area of private construction of the Red Hatir area in the Darnitsky district of Kiev and to carry out measures with the well-being of the respective territory. Alexander Suprunenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Kyiv City Head, on the construction of the chemical gas treatment system of the “Energy” PAT Kyivenergo. Irina Heraszczenko and Maria Ionova to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the protection and protection of the rights of Alexander Kolchenk to higher education. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Minister of Health for the urgent need to form a hospital in the northern region of the Dubrovnik Hospital district or hospital for intensive treatment in connection with a significant increase in population disease and remoteness of rural areas from the centre of qualified medical care. Helen Sotnik to Henprocurorate on the list of prosecutors who are subject to the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaner of Power. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the use of effective measures to address the question of the renewal of orders for the production of voucher forms for the extended tour by SND member countries for 2016-2020. Mikoli Veličković to the Prime Minister on the provision of information on further plans for the use of the territory, buildings and property of the government residence in the village of Nova Petrovci in the region of Kiev. Tetjana Crnoval to the Prime Minister on non-compliance with CMM Decree No.95 of 21 February 2017 on under-receiving this funding by the State budget of Ukraine. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, for the establishment of a higher military school of missile and artillery in Suma. Vladislav Buharev to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funds from the State Budget for 2017 to the district budget of the Suma Region for the purchase of medical drugs for diabetics and chronic renal insufficiency. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code with the aim of channelling local budget expenditure to compensation for the execution of flights on unprofitable suburban bus routes of general use. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Vinnitsky National Medical University, Pyrogov, on his contribution to the translation of the ATO-Jaroslav Kushpita from the National Medical University of the Name of the Mantisel to the Vinick National Medical University of the name Pyrogov with the preservation of the State form of education. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the absence of a health facility in Ukraine of stents and satellite equipment that endangers the lives of Ukrainian citizens. Igor Shurma to the Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, Henprocuror, for drawing officials of the Ministry of Health to the responsibility of Ukraine’s officials whose activities have caused damage to Ukraine’s national budget and the absence of medicines and medical supplies in health facilities. Victor Krivenk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror of Ukraine, on the violation of the Odessa City Head of Truhanov, officials and officials of the Odessa City Council for the constitutional rights of citizens, the service negligence of the leadership of the NP and the Prosecutor's Office in the Odessa region. Victor Krivenk to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Regulatory Service, Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway" on the obligation to obtain a licence for the transport of dangerous goods by rail. Vladimir Parasuka to the Chief of Staff of the National Police in the Lviv region for the verification of the capital repair of the project "Capital Renovation (Thermal Modernization) of the DNZ Building No. 7 "Red Hat" on the street. Yu. Lipi, 10 in Novoyavorysk, Yavorów district of Lviv region." Vladimir Parasuka to the Head of the BSS, Henprocuror for information and assistance in the full and comprehensive investigation of criminal conduct in relation to Igor Masik's staff detained at a bribe of $10,000. Andrija Lopushanski to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation regarding the reform of the mountain search and rescue service in the Carpathian region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the supply of natural gas to the PRAT "Herson TEC". Viktor Razwadowski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District Government for the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the heating system with the establishment of a solid boiler at the Malobratal Preschool Institute of the Lubar Region, Žitomir Region. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government to resolve the issue of establishing a road balancer from the M-06 Kyiv-Chop international route to military town No. 115 of the village of Berezovka of the Žitomir region, the Žitomir region and its renovation. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv oblast, the prosecutor of the Lviv district, the head of the Lviv observatories for the verification of the efficient use of funds and the quality of work performed in the establishment of an artificial sports playground in the territory of the Brodow specialized school No.2, II, the city of Brody, the Lviv district by the sub-organization of the Styr MP. Michael Bondar to the prosecutor of the Lviv district on the status of the court hearing of the return to the state ownership of the entire property complex of the DP "Central Enriching Factory of the Red Cross", the qualification of the actions of officials of the Regional Department of the State Property Fund of Ukraine in the Lviv region and the PAT "Lviv Coal Company". Artura Martovicki and Igor Shurma to the Head of the SBU on the threat to Ukraine’s national security as a result of a violation of Ukraine’s temporary duty as Minister of Health of Ukraine’s rule of law. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for operational interventions, treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of the budget of the war invalid and the group, providing him with all-inclusive assistance, including material assistance. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the work and practical implementation of a comprehensive assistance system for children with psychophysical disabilities. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to Business-ombudsman, Kramator City Head to remove obstacles to the implementation of the joint Ukrainian-Slovakia project "The Development of Urban Infrastructure-2" in Kramatorsk, Donetsk Region. Victoria Voytzicka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the Head of the Management of the Company Pat "Ukrnafta" by Mark Rollins and the officials of the Society. Groups of Nardeps (Chekiti, Zholobecki and only six) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unconditional implementation of Presidential decrees and legislation in the field of information protection. Andrija Kiselova to the Prime Minister for the allocation of the budget of the city of Dobropil of the Donetsk Region. Irina Konstankevitch to the Head of the BSB, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the Ukrainian Police on the legality of renting a 56-ha (hectare) land plot at the "Swimmings", Ljubljana district of Volinsk. Anatolia Evlakhova to the Ministry of Economic Development on the non-privatization of the National Film Studio of the films by the name of Duženka. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister for settling the government's retail price for scrapped gas. Anatolia Denisenka to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to provide the necessary medical supplies to carry out planned and non-planned vaccinations. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Support of the Appeal of the Lubotic City Council of the Kharkiv Region on the Increase in Subventions from the State Budget for Income and Housing Grants to Population for Electricity, Natural Gas, Heat, Water and Water Services, Apartment Payment of 41.6 million Griv. Vladimir Katsuba, Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Education, Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Policy for the increase in educational and medical subsidies from the state budget of the city of Lubotoin Kharkiv Region to 6 million 725 thousand dollars. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Finance to resolve the issue of public budget subsidies to local budgets to pay off the differences in tariffs for thermal energy by KP "Slavutské ŽKO". Romana Macola and Ruslan Solvara to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health to supplement the list of basic medical devices that are available free of charge and under extended conditions. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, for the continuation of the deadline for applying citizens for monetary compensation (monetizations) for saved subsidies, as well as for clarification of the reasons for receipt and payment of savings subsidies. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Head of the North Office of the Derjaudit Service in the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the National Police Directorate in the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the General Administration of the Dergeokadaster in the Vinnitsk Region, on violations of the requirements of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act, approved by the Department of Capital Construction of the Vinnitsky City Council in the conduct of a tender for the construction of a cemetery on the street. The Sabaric highway in Vinnice and the establishment of ownership of a plot of 36.47 hectares [36.47 ha]. Alexia Lensky of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Henprocuror of the use of urgent response measures aimed at halting the violation of Ukrainian legislation and the urgent resolution of the situation in the Žitomir region and resulting in pollution of the Teterian River and the mass loss of fish in it, attracting the guilty to the established legislative responsibility. Alexia Lensky to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the principle of the rule of law and the authority of justice and on the disciplinary responsibility of the judge of the Žitomir District Court of the district of Grubian Evgen Alexiyovich. Paul Kishkar to Henprocuror on the inaction of prosecutorial authorities in investigating fraud during land privatization. Nardepi groups (Leshchenka, Zlatchuk. A total of 12 colleagues) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the alleged illegal obstruction of state defence at the street of Colonel Potejin, 9 in the city of Kiev. Hennady Chekita to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on non-compliance with the requirements of legislation on personnel matters of enterprise, which is of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State. Mikoli Palamarchuka to the Ukrainian National Police on the inaction of the Kyiv City Police on the fact-finding. Identifying the refusal of a test to test the signs of alcohol abuse by a participant in an accident. Mikoli Palamarchuk to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the criminal conduct of the failure to execute a court decision and to intervene in the economic activities of the State executive of the Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of the Directorate of State Executive Services of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in Kharkiv district of V. Piculi. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Plain District State Administration for the critical situation in the Plains region related to the insufficient provision of citizens with joint endoprothesis. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, to resolve the issue of compensation to citizens for contributions from the USSR Savings. Jury of the Bubble to the Head of the VR on the use of State symbols. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Montenegrin Regional Government for the financing of a school bus for the transport of children to the Lopushnian School of Education in the Visniky region of the Chernivets region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads, Head of the Chernobyl District Government, Head of the Visniki District Government of the Chernobyl Region, on financing the current repair of the regional road in the village of Bagna Visniki district of Montenegro. Igor Goose to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the question of the work of the Lokachin Gas Industry in the context of the settlement of cooperation with the Markovich Village Council of the Lokachin Region of Volin Region. Igora Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the issue of the issue of providing pension categories of citizens with cars in a technically viable state. Vladimir Husak to the head of the Donetsk Regional Military and Civil Administration for information on the implementation of the capital repair of the municipal building "Nicolian School of Public Education I-III graduated in the number 1 Jakomenko District Council of the Donetsk Region." Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of citizens' rights in granting subsidies for housing and utility costs. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, Public Association of Ukrainian Railways for the increase in the mobile composition of trains on the Fastev-Kiev-Fastiv route. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Minister of Agriculture Policy, acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre for the Settlement of Land around the Agricultural Assignment of State Property. Andrea Illenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine, for violations in the parking area in Odessa. Andrija Illenka's acting head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders regarding the link between Herson and Mikolayev and Volina and Delilah. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister for the approval of the share of excise taxes made in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine in the second half of 2017. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the recalculation of pensions for retired members of the military service and former employees of internal affairs bodies. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the order of free transfer of land to co-owners of multi-housing houses or for permanent use. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding a program to support individual housing in the village of Own House. Alexander Kodola to the director of the Ucrobanprom State Concert for the provision of information on the sale of power (mine) of the state-owned factory "Nižinska Repair Engineering". Alexia Rybkin to the Prime Minister, the heads of the Board, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the need to update the list of locations in which the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their authority and which are located on the line of collision. Alexander Ponomarrow to the Prime Minister for the increase in the value of solid fuel for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population. Vasil Guljev Prime Minister for the allocation of subsidies for the 17th year of the city of Black Sea Odessa for anti-removal work in the area of Primorska Street and the 9th Microregion. Paul Rizanenko, Director of the Department of Municipal Property of Kiev, for the provision of information on auctions for the sale of immovable property of the Kyiv territorial community, which took place from 01.01.16 and 1/07.17. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the Cabinet's "On the Approval of the List of Populations in whose Territories the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their authority, and on the List of Populations on the Collision Line" dated 7.11.14 No. 1085. Sergey Caplin Henprocuror, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Investigation of a Conspiracy between Clumsy Companies. Yurya Drevijanka to the National Migration Service of Ukraine on the need to provide information on the reasons for the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship, Saakashvili Michaela, and a copy of his citizenship case. Jury of the Derevyanka Cabinet of Ministers on the need to increase the amount of education, medical subsidies and additional grants from the State budget to pay the employees of the budgetary institutions of the region of Ivano-Frankiv region for the 17th year with the aim of not allowing creditors to borrow and providing funds for the payment of heat and energy. Julia Yooffe to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the need to verify possible illegal acts by individual officials of the Pension Fund and Pat "Krupposta", which led to violations of the constitutional rights of a large number of citizens and mass cases of non-retirement for July 2014 in separate locations in the Lugansk region. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need to provide State support and support for the implementation of the First Maiden Coal Investment Project with a view to the development of the Separate Unit of the "Gyrska Chess". Mr. Andria Galchenka and Mr. Constantine Pavlova Prime Minister for the capital renovation of the Ukrainian State Hospital in Krivi Rig. Sergey Melnik to Henprocuror, acting as Head of the Holding Foundation for the Use of State Property, which is accounted for in the balance sheet of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, is a monument to the Hotel Corps architecture. Sergio Melnika to Henprocuror on the conformity of the decision of the Hmělnické town council session with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation. Valeria Davidenka to the Prime Minister for refusing to transfer to the concession of forestry. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister on proposals for a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2018. Roman Semenha to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service for the practice of applying paragraph 8 of Section XX of the Ukrainian PC. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister for the allocation of additional funding for the purchase of agriographic equipment in the region of Chernobyl. Maxim Burbak to the first deputy minister of agrarian politics to ensure a stable situation with flour and bread in the Chernobyl region. Jury Pavlenko to Henprocuror, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for violations of children's rights to education at Korčica Public Education School I-II, graduated from the Teterian OTG of the Žitomir Region of the Žitomir Region. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Donetsk Observatories, head of the Luhansk Observatories for information on the preparation of an interfractional parliamentary association "Protection of the Rights of Children - the Priority of the State". Sergia Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Finance for the provision of persons with limited physical capacity with special equipment for transportation. Sergia Labazuka to Kabmin, a temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to resolve the issue of providing an anti - stem vaccine to the hops. Jury Timoshenko to the Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for committing gross violations during the construction of a residential building in the city of Colomia. Jury Tymoshenko to the Minister of Justice on gross violations committed during the verification of the rights of those convicted in the Code of Criminal Procedure No. 58. Alexander Vilkula to the head of Ukraine’s Supreme Court for Civil and Criminal Matters, the Head of the Supreme Court for the Generalization of Judicial Practice and for the clarification of procedural rules for the handling of labour disputes in courts, in view of the status of the ratified Supreme Council of Ukraine of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 158. Alexander Villkull and Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that all necessary legal and regulatory acts are adopted promptly and that a clear mechanism is put in place to implement the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Hostages. Alexander Nechayeva to the minister of infrastructure in charge of the headship of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the urgent need to repair the road in the village of Rossoshi of the district of Suma. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, for changes to the passports of bus routes between Velika Pisarovka - Kharkiv and Krasnopil - Kharkiv in Sumski district. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of Ukraine's energy independence in connection with the failure of the Queen to create a closed nuclear cycle for the supply and subsequent disposal of nuclear fuel, which combines its own production for the Ukrainian AES. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Police, the Acting Head of the State of the State of Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre on the signs of illegal (rider) involvement by corruption of the land areas of residents of the village of Elizabethovka of the Lozov region of Kharkiv region. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the State Service of Ukraine from medical devices and drug control on the need to improve the National List of Main Medical Devices. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the financial support of the Kharkiv National Academy of Opera and the Lisenka Ballet. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the proper provision of children by the Manuals and the introduction of the Electronic Manual. Vassil Nimchenk to Henprocuror to verify the legality of the actions of officials in the district of Kyiv in connection with the violation of the right of the inhabitants of Butch to a fair trial. Michael Golka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocurorate, for the proper investigation of the incident that took place at Pecher High School No. 75 in Kiev. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Environmental Inspectorate for Air Pollution in Ternopil County. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister on the need to allocate budgetary resources to pay off the debt obligations of the village of Rusiška Tetijev Region of Kiev to the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" for the construction of the gas supply facility. Vitalia Gudzenka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the verification of the legality of the distribution of land located on the territory of the Yaseniv village council of the Stavishten district of the Kyiv region. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary obligation of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to take measures to provide medical care for citizens suffering from the disease of the city. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Lviv City Head on the proper organization of urban transport from the West AU. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the fields of culture, science and education. Sergey Rudika to the first deputy minister of internal affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Police Department in the Cherkas region, for the transfer of Mitsubishi Outlander’s car to the Kamyan Police Department of the Police Department of the National Police Department in the Cherkas region for a more efficient and quality performance of duties in the city of Kamyanka and the Kamyan region. Sergija Rudika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, Head of the Cherkas Observatories for the Imperative Implementation of the Ukrainian Act "For the Democratic Republic of Ukraine for 2017" in the part of the creation of the National Centre for the Rehabilitation of Disabled Members of the ATO on the basis of the State Institution "Specialized Health Part No. 14" of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in Smil of the Cherkas region. People’s Deputies ( Bilozoz, Karpuntsov, Dehtirczuk,) to the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Special Court of the Ukraine for Civil and Criminal Affairs, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Minister for Interimly Occupied Areas of Internally Moved Persons, the Head of the State Court of Justice for the consideration of proposals made in the Resolution of the Round Table "Conflict on Donbasa: Challenges, Threats and Their Legal Settlements. Group of Nardeps (Bilozoz, Lunchenko, Shahova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of justice in the pay of employees of the National Historical and Cultural Reserve "The Gethman Capital", as well as other cultural institutions that have the status of "national". Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of workers in the health sector. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the increase in the target costs for the treatment of diabetics and non-sugar diabetes in the Poltavian region. Oleg Kulinić to Kabmin for the extension of the list of medicines for the benefit categories of citizens Olega Kulinić to Kabmin on the coming of the excise tax on petroleum products to the local budgets in the second half of 2017. Paul Kishkar to the Minister of Justice to verify the legality of the actions of the private notary of Kharkiv City notary of Angelina Degtharov. Jury of Bereza to the Head of the National Food Safety Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, on compliance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine in the design, installation and application of housing and utility prices, including heating and hot water supply of the house at the address of Dnipro, the Gagarin 23 prospectus, the Private Shareholder Association of the Science and Production Association of the Founder. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for Metallurgical Production in Ukraine. Sergey Lechchenka to Henprocuror about the alleged groundless involvement of law enforcement officials in the work of THE DIAVITA. Igor Popov to Kabmin on the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of the people of Mariupol Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for the provision of vocational and technical education. Ruslan Demchak to the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Regional Development on the approach of budget allocations for the National Regional Development Fund. Ruslana Demczak to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Road Service in the Vinicki Region, to provide funding for the renovation of the Nemirov road. Oleg Petrenk to Deputy Attorney-General of the Military Prosecutor for the provision of information on the number of criminal conducts involving serious and particularly serious crimes committed by military personnel. Victor Vuka to the minister of ecology and natural resources for the allocation of funds from the Environmental Protection Fund of the city of Zoldanosza in order to prevent an environmental disaster in the city. Victor Romanyuk to Henprocuror for the deliberate inaction of law enforcement agencies in the international search for the former Minister of Education and Science of Tobacco. Paul Dziblik to the executive responsibility of the Head of the Ukrainian Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre for the arbitrary occupation of the land area of a total area of 1.2 ha. Natalia Royal and Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on the settlement of the issue of the inhabitants of the city of Avdivka Donetsk. Edward Matviyczuk to the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Temporary Occupational Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Odessa District Administration, Odessa City of Odessa on the need for an objective review of the appeal of the internally displaced person Hanna Zinova, who, with a minor child, needs comprehensive assistance in resolving the issue of permanent or temporary housing for employment in the authorities of the Kyiv district of Odessa. Edward Matviyczuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Odessa District Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for objective consideration of the collective appeal of residents of buildings 44, 48 and 52 on the street of the Academic William of Kyiv district of Odessa on the need for a comprehensive environment of the instigation area, effective measures of well-being and ensuring the safety of life for both children and residents of the specified buildings at the beginning of the autumn and winter period of this year. Igora Lucenka and Natalia Novak to the Prime Minister for the creation of an interdisciplinary working group on the legality of the construction of some Kiev objects that generate social resonance. Sergey Eutuska and Ruslan Bogdan to the Director of the National Corruption Bureau, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need to investigate the corruption of land issues by officials of the Town Council of the Rhineland. And the last question I'm going to ask today, Oksana Sold to the Head of the Court of Auditors, is to provide information on specific issues of the activities of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine. We announced, made requests for exactly 30 minutes according to the Rules, and we were able to issue 230 requests, and another 7 remain for the next Friday. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u72	One minute, we will now advise on how to proceed. Dear colleagues! We've had a lengthy consideration of "questions to the government," and we've actually had a long discussion in the hall. And that's why we don't have any questions to consider until the break. I'm the only one who can read the announcement, and then there'll be a 12:30 break, and at 12:30, we'll be able to do what we can. I want to say in advance that we're going to continue to 14:15 meetings, so that you can plan, the appropriate hour for the performance will be the same as always from 13:15 to 14:15, and from 12:30 to 13:15 - 45 minutes we'll be looking at the corrections, wisely, right? We figured this would be the best way to do it. Is the committee head in agreement? There's agreement, then with yours. I'm going to read an ad that is, so colleagues, I want to read an ad that came into the Presidency. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "To improve cooperation with international financial and donor organizations" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the co-chairs of this association have elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Belkov Olga, Rizanenka Paula, Vojcic Victoria and Lechchenka Sergei. So now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break, and, colleagues, at 12:30 exactly, we're going to consider the amendments that we have under the law on change. It's break time, 12:30. So I ask everyone at 12:30 to come to the hall to continue our work. By 2:15 p.m. Okay, break until 12:30, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! Please enter the National Assembly Hall. Time spent for a break is over. Please come into the hall and get ready for work. This is a direct violation of the Rules, Mrs. Ostrikova. Stop pushing on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and force him to break the Rules. The committee head is on the scene. The chairman of the committee made a convincing request.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u74	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u75	Wisely, yes, I think. With respect to the head of the Committee of Ruslan Knazevitch, we ask him to remain seated. And let's get to it, colleagues. I'll just say one minute. Friends, I say, there must be some logic, there should be some general terms, and so I would really like us to go as intensely as possible. Let us be responsible for our work. So 482a, Vlasenko. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u76	Thank you. Andrey Volodymyrovich, again, we're going back to what we talked about yesterday, these codes are proposed to completely limit the publicity of the trial, and the article to which my amendment is, she's saying that it's the director's function that is to ensure the number of people in the room according to the vacancies. So this is the abuse that the opposition of Yanukovich was fighting. We have been able to see that such restrictions have been lifted even in codes 10 and so far, but these codes impose restrictions on the possibility of allowing people to sit in the courtroom for only a number of vacancies, which is totally unacceptable for a transparent court procedure. And then by my 482 amendment, I propose that we exclude the court order from allowing people to enter the courtroom only according to their seats. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u77	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 482. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. Please. [[12:32:25]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 483rd. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u78	483 amendments are as follows. In fact, this article, which is amended, says that complaints about the actions or omissions of a court official are brought before the court in the same case. Unfortunately, the people who wrote this rule do not understand the course of the trial. The trial in the court of the first instance may take an absolute amount of time, despite the legal limitations. And in fact, what some judges do -- they do very simply -- they deal with all the complaints about all the actions at the very end of the trial. I demand that the judge immediately hear a complaint about the actions of the judicial officer as soon as such a complaint has been filed with the judge. And so that the judge does not delay the hearing of this complaint artificially to the end of the court. by the end of the trial in the court where the case is brought. This will simply protect people from the acquittal of judicial officials. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u79	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 483. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:33:49]] For-31 The decision is not taken. [[Noise Nodes]] But we only come back three times. [[Noise Nodes]] 484. Don't insist. 486. Don't insist. 487. Don't insist. 488. Don't insist. 489. Don't insist. 490. Don't insist. 492. Don't insist. 493. Don't insist. 494. Don't insist. 498. Don't insist. 500. Don't insist. We've gone over the psychological mark of 500 amendments. 503. Don't insist. 505. Don't insist. 510. Don't insist. 511. Don't insist. He insists. Please, 511, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u80	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Mr. Andrey, you're in grave violation of the Rules again. There's about 48 people in the room right now. The rapporteur is not according to the bill. In general, you turn, well, you know, into this kind of chicken of the Supreme Council, when you can do anything you want, that person sitting on the top shelf. This is a disgrace to Ukraine in general. Dear friends, as far as the bill is concerned. I will address you and the competent authorities for this matter. Regarding this bill, there are comments from an expert board that explain on 54 pages why this law cannot be adopted. They are. seriously criticize the issue of involving an expert in law. It is clearly shown on the entire page why this cannot be done. My amendment applies to cancelling.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u81	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. Amendment 511, which supports the amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[12:36:05]] For-37 The decision is not made. Next 511. Don't insist. 516. Don't insist. 518. Nope. He insists. Please, 516.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u82	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Mr. Andrew, one more time, turn to the hall, have a conscience. When you were standing on the Maidan next to everyone, you were fighting for the Supreme Council to have legal adoption of laws, especially on sensitive matters such as laws that would shape the judiciary here in Ukraine. And now you're just grossly ignoring everything you've been fighting for. And the bill, I want to point out once again that the judge's legal expert is the judge, he's deciding how to apply the rule of law, allowing legal expertise to be conducted in a court of law, is to destroy the role of justice. When you prove your position in court, you have a discussion with the other side, you give arguments, you hear arguments, you make arguments. But if you have an expert in law, he writes in conclusion what he thinks is necessary, and the competition is gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u83	516th row. As promised yesterday, I am not in the discussion, although I have something to say about it. I'm voting on amendment 516. Please vote on who supports it. [[12:37:47]] For-33 The decision is not made. 518th. Don't insist. He insists. 518th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u84	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In fact, the debate about an expert in law is really important because it's conceptual. In fact, I agree with colleague Odarchenk that the expert, the only expert on the law in the trial, is the judge who decides, on the basis of his own understanding of the law, the issue. There can be no law expert. Who's the expert? The expert is a person with special knowledge who is not assigned to the trial and the court. So if there's a technical expertise, if there's any economic expertise, then an expert is invited. But if we're saying that we need an expert in law, it's a judge in a court trial that, on the basis of his legal knowledge, decides the issue. So this is completely absurd. Never. It's impossible, from the point of view of law theory, it's impossible to have an expert on law. So this means that the law expert has a legal knowledge that the judge doesn't own. It's an absurd design. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u85	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 518 national MP Vlasenka. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:39:22]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 520th. Don't insist. 521st. Don't insist. 526th. Don't insist. What's that? Five Two Three? 523 for confirmation. Turn on Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. It is the 523 right that introduces a 71-article reaction that allows the same experts to participate in the field of law, which is absolute absurdity in any process, and in the business, including. Because once again, the law expert, the person who has special knowledge, is the judge who decides the issue. Why do we need an expert on the law?Oh, my God! So let's take down the courts, make some law experts who, instead of a judge, will settle legal disputes and give some of their assessments to the law. You know, on the contrary, always a judge, when a lawyer came to some legal conclusion, a judge in a court of law always said, "I don't need legal opinions, because I'm a lawyer, I'm here to decide one or the other." And that has logic and common sense. So I'm asking you to put 523 amendments on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u87	Thank you. And I'm betting on confirming amendment five, two, three. But he wants to comment on the committee head. Please, Knyazevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Head. I simply want to share in this discussion. Because it's a very principled thing. Because it's an amendment that's not considered by the committee. This is about law experts who have a special scientific degree and who, as we have already voted in principle, can provide some explanation from the point of view of a new source of law for Ukrainian courts, the doctrine of science. In view of these circumstances, such an institution is established. And it can only function if the parties, the two sides, agree to have such an institution involved, then the judge can go to such an institution. And in principle, what is considered by the committee is the responsibility of this expert to appear in a mandatory manner before the court or to participate in a video conference and properly perform his procedural duties. If we don't take this position into account right now, that means that he's free in his actions, and that's what the amendment author was talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u89	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, when the chairman of the committee is speaking, please be quiet in the hall. You now understand why he does not speak because you constantly interrupt him. You're acting irresponsibly. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 523. Please vote, please support Amendment 523. Vote. [[12:42:38]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 526. Don't insist. 526 for confirmation. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u90	You know, with respect to Ruslan Knazevitch, dear friends, I'd like to read the conclusions of the expert board on the issue of this novel, "The law experiment." The expert office, where experts know who have worked for many years, writes that it is impossible for experts to agree with this novel and raise a number of questions. First, according to the project as an expert on law, a person who has a degree in science and is a recognised expert can be involved. I don't know who it was, Ruslan invented it, but it's not in Ukrainian legislation, and it's a very confusing norm. Who is this, I don't know. The person who is in control of the President who closes his eyes says black. I ask that this amendment be submitted for confirmation, because the rule that experts are involved is illegal, it acts as a court of law in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u91	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 526. Please support her. The committee that supports the committee supports it. Please vote. [[12:44:14]] For-25 The decision is not made. 526, 526, Mr. Ruslan. 528. Don't insist. 529. Don't insist. 531. Don't insist. 532. Please, Captain Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u92	Thank you. Amendment 532 refers to determining further that judges may require and in what order of evidence, and refers to article 82, which directly defines these cases, and we ask for clarification. Now, what about procedural issues? First of all, I have a question for the chairman. Where's the reporter? I don't see a reporter on the rostrum from this bill. It's supposed to be in the rostrum. That's the first one. And secondly, once again, article 120 of the Rules refers to the discussion of amendments to second reading. The discussion means that there is a reporter for the amendment, which is how I am now reporting the amendment, and it is being discussed, including giving the rapporteur the right thoughts. So I ask you not to disrupt this process and allow the committee head to comment on the amendments that raise questions. Thank you. Put to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u93	Thank you. The committee head is on the scene. At the beginning of the discussion, he made a suggestion. I let him be here. If you want him to stand, Ruslan, as the committee's responsible head, has gone to the rostrum. And if it's very important for you to have the committee head stand, please. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u94	Since the previous speaker personally mentioned me and accused me of where I grew up, of having taken them with a recognized level of competence, where I came up with such a definition, just read the Ukrainian Constitution, the new edition voted for by the "Fatherland" faction, including. This has resulted in such a definition in Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u95	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 532. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:46:32]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next, 533rd. Don't insist. 534th. Don't insist. 535. Don't insist. 538. Don't insist. 540th. He insists. 540th, please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u96	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. When Fatherland took part with other factions in voting for changes to the Constitution that apply to the judiciary, we heard a lot of other intentions there. And now, Mr. Ruslan, after your participation in the Constitutional Court Act, which severely restricts human rights, you have essentially created a manual Constitutional Court, violating all the rules of law. Now you're ruining the law by adopting these laws. My amendment relates to the fact that the Code proposes to oblige the plaintiff to provide all evidence at the same time as the application, but this is not possible in practice, since the plaintiff does not know what evidence the defendant will give. For example, the accuser asks that the protocol of the general congregations be declared invalid and gives evidence that he was abroad during the meetings and that the conclusion that he was at dawn is therefore false. At the same time, it passes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u97	I'll bet the vote on amendment 540. Whoever supports it, please vote, the committee has rejected it. Vote. [[12:48:17]] For-44 The decision is not made. 542nd. Don't insist. 543rd. Don't insist. 544th. Don't insist. 547th. Don't insist. 548th. Don't insist. 551st. Don't insist. 551st. Odarchenko insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! This novel is another limitation on the rights of the parties to fight counterfeiting. The authors of the codex are proposed to claim that the evidence was false only in a pre-trial session. But there is a category of cases where the previous trial is not held at all. That is, it would be impossible to claim false evidence in these matters. What if the party considered that some evidence was real and then in court because of contradictions in other evidence it became clear that the document was forged? So I'm asking you to remove this artificial restriction. A Party should be able to effectively protect itself against counterfeiting. I ask you to comment on the committee's position as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u99	I bet on the vote of amendment 551. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:49:47]] For-43 The decision is not made. 554. 555. 556. What's that? Number? Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u100	553rd and 554 revisions, they're identical. We ask them to be confirmed because it is proposed to remove the need for justification in order to seek evidence as to why it is impossible to obtain this evidence on its own by the person who gives the issue. I'm talking to lawyers who are listening to us. That is to say, concern about the need for evidence is given to a person simply when he or she collects the evidence himself. This is completely absurd. There has always been a following practice that evidence is required to be used by the court in a case where a person cannot obtain it on his own. And that should be the main reason why the party requires the court to seek evidence on the other side. So 553 and 554 please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u101	Okay. I'll bet 553 and 554 on confirmation. Whoever supports this position, please vote, and the committee has supported them. Please support, we vote. [[12:51:11]] For-31 The decision is not made. 555. Don't insist. 556. Don't insist. 557. Don't insist. 558. Don't insist. 560. Don't insist. 561. Don't insist. 562. Don't insist. 562, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u102	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Actually, regulation 562 applies so much. such a very important stage in the trial as the assessment of evidence. Unfortunately, in the economic process, we have a huge problem with this situation today, because we just mechanically transferred the norm from the law in force. But it looks like this: the parties give some evidence, the judge is silent about this evidence, even if they're obviously legal or illegal, it doesn't give these evidence any evaluation. Only evaluates these evidences in the advisory room when deciding the relevant court decision. There's a slightly different offer. In order for the parties to understand at least the status of their evidence, as the judge sees them, to change the procedure a little bit, allowing the court to assess, let us say, publicly these evidences. This time. And second, and secondly, in order to make a decision in court, there must be at least a minimum set of evidence that confirms that the judge is a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u103	I'm voting on Amendment 562. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:52:56]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 563. Don't insist. 565. Don't insist. 566. Don't insist. 568. Don't insist. 569. He insists. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the introduction of witnesses in the household process in itself is quite a controversial step. But there are also witnesses who cannot be questioned. According to this new code, the Witnesses give their testimony in writing, and they can be called out of session only with the permission of the court. A bigger field of manipulation, I'm talking to our viewers, it's hard to imagine. It is suggested that the party should always have the right to call a witness for questioning if there is at least one question about the matter. Otherwise, the competition will not be ensured, how can you protect yourself from showings that cannot be verified without asking the witness the precise questions? As it turns out, the witness immediately gave the writer some explanation, and the court considers them without taking sides without hearing them. Dear friends, I ask you to vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u105	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 569. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[12:54:35]] For-37 And now 568. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u106	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In fact, this amendment contains a few changes to the procedure that is proposed. Well, first of all, how does the committee propose to address the issue of the call of witnesses? The Witness is summoned by a court of law to investigate the initiative of the court. It is not clear at all what time it should be reported that it is. I don't know what he It's not a role, it's a different one, it's a matter of not being told in advance that it's going to be called. I mean, there might be a situation that the witness will say that you should be in court today. But there are various circumstances under which a witness cannot appear at the specified time. What will happen in this situation? So it's suggested that the time that the witness is warned that he's being summoned to court is one time, because it's very important that there's no abuse. We know that abuse is taking place most of the time -- they don't deliver messages on time, they call witnesses and participants in the process, and so on. So we need to put in place a mechanism so that there will be no abuse. A term must be set for the witness to be informed that he should appear before the court and give explanations appropriate or be questioned as a witness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u107	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 568. Please vote. The committee turned her down. [[12:56:04]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 572. Don't insist. 573. Don't insist. 574. Don't insist. 576. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u108	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u109	576. Vlasenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u110	Thank you. Edit 576 refers to the following. What are we offered on the committee? We're asked to write the following: "The participant has the right to put in the first statement in the substance of the matter or in addition to it no more than 10 questions to the other participant." And if the matter is difficult, and if the matter is big, and if the case concerns a few, a large number of controversial episodes, why should we limit it to just 10 questions? I think it looks like something, well, it's kind of artificially designed, and then it's an artificial constraint, another artificial limitation on the rights of the participants. And this logic is why it's 10, why not 15, not 20, not 100, I don't understand. I ask you to vote in favour of amendment 576, which clears it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u111	I bet on the vote of amendment 576. Please make up your mind. The committee turned her down. Vote. [[12:57:27]] For-44 The decision is not made. 578. Don't insist. 579. It's 578, isn't it? Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Head, first of all, I would like to ask you to put to the vote 554 amendments, because we voted in favour of 553, which is similar to 554. It would be right for us to vote and make a procedural decision. My amendment 578 refers to a similar question raised by my colleague Vlasenko. I'm offering a slightly simpler option, maybe he'll find his support. Just take away the word "ten," because right now I'm talking to lawyers who are listening to us, and this nonsense that we can't even ask 11 questions. Of course, in the end, lawyers in practice will come out of that situation by putting ten questions into one that will result in more complicated processes, eventually more chaos. And it's very obvious that you have to take this thing away from an artificial constraint that doesn't actually have it behind you and it can't have any logic behind it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u113	Thank you. So I'm going to vote 554 first. The committee supported her. Please vote. The committee supported her. The committee's asking for support. [[12:59:00]] For-46 And then I'm going to be 578. The committee turned her down. Sidorovich asks for her support. Whoever supports this, please identify yourself. [[12:59:22]] For-50 The decision is not made. 580. Don't insist. 581. Don't insist. 583. Don't insist. 584. Colleagues, I'll give you my word before I make a message. First message. 100 right-handers for half an hour. For that. 100 rights, half an hour. To get a calculator and figure out how much the bill might go. We just passed 100 rights in half an hour. It's just for the common understanding of processes. Next. Today’s records will begin at 1:15 p.m. and will last for an hour, as provided by the Rules, from 13.15 to 14.15. So everyone who wants to sign up for the performance will be recorded at 13.15. I now give the floor to read Amendment 584, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u114	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In fact, the 584th amendment refers to the fact that if one of the participants refuses to answer the question, well, first of all, he has to argue why he refuses to answer the question. And I think that this refusal should be written. Because the answer to the question at the time, after giving an explanation, is one of the sources, one of the sources of evidence. Once again, I'm underlining. So in this situation, it seems to me that this is the kind of procedure that needs to be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u115	Vote Amendment 584. [[13:01:17]] For-40
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u116	585th, Vlasenko. Are you insisting? Dear colleagues, 585 amendments to Vlasenka. The honourable chairman of the committee, do not hesitate to announce the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u117	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I agree with you that the head of the committee is preventing us from working. It's a wise decision, it's a wise sensation that I fully support. Yeah, well, the committee head is in the way of working on this bill. I'll be right back. The 585 amendment again refers to this famous ten - limit limit in ten questions that have arisen unknown from where, as is unknown, why ten. It looks like I completely agree with my colleague Sidorovich, which, of course, lawyers will be extorting. In ten questions, 20, 30, and 40 questions will be asked. And there is no problem in formulating one question that will essentially contain three questions. But these are artificial restrictions that are aimed only at limitations, sorry for some tautology, the rights of the participants in the process. These are artificial things that don't have to be introduced into these codes. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u118	Vote 585 of the amendment. [[13:02:42]] For-45 591s. If, in general, I'm going to read it now, we're going to get to the 4700th amendment, Mrs. Tetjano, and we're going to vote in general. No questions asked. 591 repairs. Odarchenk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u119	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the party is now obliged to give the court the original written evidence. Here you are proposing a rule according to which court only copies will be made available. The originals can only be used if the court decides that this is necessary. Again, the ability of the parties to prove themselves right and to apply, to refute the evidence of the opponents is limited. The possibility for a judge to abuse his authority is increasing. So it's suggested that we leave the existing standard. The original evidence is always needed if any party wants it. I'd like the chairman of the committee to explain why they're introducing such a novel and destroying it earlier, well, in my opinion, a fairly thin order of evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u120	Thank you. Let's vote, please, 591 amendments. [[13:04:16]] For-36 594, 597, 598 amendments, the authors don't insist, because they don't exist, just like 601 amendments, so that we don't go back to these amendments. 602th, George. He doesn't insist either. Let's move on, move on, move on, move on. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u121	No, we're not there by 2015, we're not even there by 600. 621. Odarchenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u122	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is another piece of legislation that concerns so-called legal experts. I emphasize that such experts were most often used in the Middle Ages, when the judge was often not a lawyer and needed help to know what was actually written in the law on which the parties referred. The judges bought or received positions along with the title, and the legal experts helped the court to understand the laws. But I hope that we have professional judges in court, or maybe you're taking them for money, and I don't know why these experts are here, and that's why they don't need this help as an expert. So I'm proposing a section on experts on the right to rule out. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u123	Vote 621 of the amendment. [[13:06:07]] For-38 623. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u124	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I agree with my colleague Odarchenk that according to the situation today, an expert is a person who has special knowledge that does not belong to a judge. If we had a previous comment by the committee head and said that there would be legal experts in the field of law there would be some unique lawyers who know legal concepts that the judge doesn't know. If you are recruiting judges who do not know your legal concepts, get them out of work. They should not be judges. And then there can be no legal experts. It can't be. The only legal expert in the trial is the judge himself, who is appointed by the state to settle the dispute, based on his legal knowledge and his own legal conviction. And there should not be any gaps in the field of economic law in the knowledge of the judge. He's a judge for that. Do all kinds of testing, retraining, anything. So talk about the existence of an institution like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u125	We vote on this amendment. [[13:07:33]] For-39 Next 630, Odarchenko. Don't insist. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u126	I insist. Dear colleagues. Since the hall does not support our work, and it looks like you've already supported law experts, I suggest at least not to accept it in such a disgraceful way. You propose to assign expertise to determine the analogy of the law and the analogy of the law. I'm sorry, this is a completely absurd situation when an expert decides such matters. I therefore propose to delete the position on the analysis of the analogy of law and law and to leave the expert only to the customs of business. For example, such expertise is possible during maritime disputes, since the practice of maritime trade is an important source of law. The head of the committee is also stressed by the Chief Expert Office. There are well - known legal scientists who are concerned about the destruction of legislation in the judiciary, so they are absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u127	Let's vote on this amendment, please. [[13:09:02]] For-37 Next, 647th, Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! We offer to eliminate the monopoly of Crucifixion when sending letters to the courts. If you have sent a letter to the mail on time, if you have not reached the court, the document is considered to have been filed on time. But if you have filed a document, not in the mail, but in the courier’s delivery service, the situation becomes somewhat different. So I would like to point out that the document can be submitted both to the post office and to the courier service, for example to New Mail, and the documents will be considered submitted on the day of their delivery to the courier.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u129	We vote, please, this amendment, without advertising. Please, come on, let's vote. [[13:10:08]] For-38 Next amendment. Mrs. Skrum, you don't insist, 658? Next, 660, Odarchenko. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u130	Mrs. Irina, I have another 649 papers, and I'd like to offer it to the deputies and ask them to support it, and I'm asking you to give me time for her announcement. 649.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u131	Advertise, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u132	Give me a minute, because you said 660.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u133	You've spent 18 seconds on this. Now let's do 649 amendments and then 660.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u134	I'll have the countdown first. Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues, the harsh requirement of article 121 that the parties receive a message five days before the meeting, may have unexpected consequences. For example, the court loses the right to announce a recess from today to tomorrow if it is not possible to warn the party in five days. In practice, judges may postpone meetings for one day to obtain some additional evidence. Dates were prepared for debates and so forth. So I would like to point out that if all the participants in the meeting are present and they are warned about the next meeting directly, the five - day rule is not applicable. I ask you to comment on the committee's head, why was it so completely logical that it wasn't supported by you, what's the matter? Comment, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u135	Vote 649 of the amendment at the request of the author. [[13:12:11]] For-29 660 revisions, Darchenka, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u136	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you are proposing to post a call for pages that are unknown on the website. It's proposed to add that this website should have a search engine, otherwise hundreds of ads will not be able to find what they need. A company associate should be able to go to the website once a week and look at all the ads that are about this company. How can you find this announcement by viewing hundreds of pages of almost identical texts? Otherwise, these announcements will simply be a way to solve matters without the defendants, which under the new code means automatic application. By the way, the scientific and expert office is seriously criticizing this rule of law by calling it illegal and incorrect, please put it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u137	Let's vote on this amendment, colleagues. [[13:13:38]] For-32 664 repairs, Odarchenko. Please. I've already announced. Then I'll give you my word. 664.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u138	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko. Dear colleagues, this code is based on the fact that only highly secured people and large businesses are expected to be able to do so. Almost everything in it has to be paid for. Even if the evidence is needed, that is, if the court approves a person’s obligation to file documents with the court. We suggest we delete this rule. Otherwise it turns out that if you're being tried by a large corporation and you need the documents of this corporation to protect you, and you don't have the money, you're going to lose because the court is going to have to pay even what you're asking your opponent for. So I'm asking you to leave the documents at least for free. It's actually a disgrace. This bill makes it inaccessible to the judiciary because it literally has to be paid for everything. Maybe there's experts there to pay for their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u139	Let's vote on this amendment, please. [[13:15:04]] For-43 662, People's Deputy Skrum. This is the last one for today, and then we're going to go to "Crazy." Please, Mrs. Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u140	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, I don't insist on 662, but I insist on 658, and once again I want to explain why it's important. Colleagues, today, are told by the committee that the respondent, once the residence or place of work is registered, will in fact be called to court by an announcement at the official web portal of the Ukrainian judiciary. First of all, I want to ask who of my colleagues knows what the name is and what is the address of the Ukrainian court's web portal, how often do you check it? And I think it's an absolutely unacceptable story when we have 1 million 700,000, as a minimum, displaced people, who may actually not be familiar with the current place of residence, if they haven't yet been able to register, where there might be an unknown place of work, if they work, for example, unofficially or not, and it's also possible during the period of our moaning of the economy, and then they're going to have to keep checking through the web site, through the web portal of the judicial branch of government, or are they not the answers to any case. I was in the working group, I was discussing this issue, and I asked the committee to say that we have to go for a period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u141	At the request of the author, we're voting first in 658th, then in 662, and that's where we're stopping for today. Colleagues, 658. Please vote. [[13:16:44]] For-49 662 now, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u142	Well, I've already announced. I heard I was listening very carefully. [[13:17:02]] For-50 Under the transcript, I'm saying that we've stopped at amendment 665, which is exactly what we're going to start the next sessional week. And now, according to the Rules, we're starting a recording of the MPs' speeches under the heading "Crazy." The performances will take exactly one hour to the second hour, then 17 minutes. Thank you, Your Honor. Until we meet in this rostrum next session week. And I'm asking colleagues who want to take the "different" line to sign up. Please, Mrs. Alona Shkrum, I'm asking you to speak. [[Noise Nodes]] Please put the list on the screen. Well, let's start with Mrs. Alona Shkrum and then the Halasyuk. Now, reverend. Please, Mrs. Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u143	Alona's splinter. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, today I want to talk about one of the most important reforms that was to take place in our country is judicial reform. You know, unfortunately, it's probably now that the level of trust in the courts is extremely low, below that of any government authority in Ukraine. According to statistics, international, including Ukraine, more Ukrainians believe in life on Mars than in an honest independent court in the territory of the Ukrainian State. And unfortunately, the issues that we are considering in Parliament today are the illegal law on the Constitutional Court and the formation of the Constitutional Court; and the largest bill in the history of the Ukrainian State and probably in the history of the world is the bill on changes to the procedural codes that are being considered in the Supreme Council today, which will be considered next week. They are only more disdainful of the actual judicial system, and they are only diminishing trust in the courts and the judicial system. Unfortunately, the President has promised us a reform of the judicial system, but the Constitutional Court Act, which was adopted by this House, which was illegally signed, unfortunately, by Mr. Speaker and President of Ukraine, distances us from the normal functioning Constitutional Court, to which must be the greatest, highest confidence in the state. And the codes that we have considered, including today, also distance us from the public court proceedings that we have been promised. And I want to explain why. First of all, the Council is considering the amendment to 7 codes at the same time, the creation of 3 new codes at the same time, and a new edition is being written, as well as amendments to 18 other laws of Ukraine. Instead of dividing these codes and these changes, and talking separately with a huge number of observations from the scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council, the Legal Department of the Supreme Council, we are looking into everything in the semi-empty room, where no amendment is accepted, no amendment will be heard, unfortunately, by the so-called coalition, and which will destroy even that judicial system, and even those public now court hearings and guarantees of the public sitting that are there. In fact, in the Fair Court Act, which we voted with you a few years ago, and which promised us on behalf of the President, to initiate judicial reform and to make a public, open and just, fair trial, that didn't happen. But at least the court was guaranteed as a public process. Here these codes, which we are considering in the Council today, and which we are amending, are destroying the publicity of the court. The judge will be able to prohibit video transmissions, audio broadcasts, webcasts of court hearings, and he can ban journalists from opening court hearings if he thinks they're obstructing him or that his broadcast is impeding him. In addition, the Code will propose the creation of 9,000 constitutional courts in Ukraine, because every court, which is a household, civil and other court, can see whether or not it conflicts with the law of the Constitution. And every judge, if he thinks that any law is in conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u144	Today, I won't give anyone a second. Don't be offended. No, it's not. Please, Oleg Lazko. I'll be on everyone's side for exactly three minutes. Please. But you can see that there are so many who want to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u145	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, the Minister of Social Policy, Mr. Reva, spoke in great detail about the government’s pension reform plan. The key thing we've heard from this speech is to optimize the budget of the Pension Fund. The government plans to make this optimization by reducing Ukrainians who are entitled to a pension. The position of the Radical Party team is the opposite. Of course, we are aware of the need for a pension reform. After all, those pennies that receive millions of Ukrainians, working hard all their lives, are absolute injustices. But the brothers, to pretend that pension reform is just a reduction in the number of people who get a pension, is to deceive Ukrainians. Because real pension reform is creating new jobs to make more income available to the Pension Fund budget. And our team, when the government proposes to reduce the number of people who are entitled to pensions, our team proposes the opposite: to raise wages, the higher wages in the working person, the more they will have a pension. Because without the increase in salary, it doesn't matter how many years you retire, it doesn't matter what kind of retirement insurance you have. When you had a minimum wage, you would have exactly that minimum pension, because you didn't make any more money. To make it a bigger pension, the way out is to raise, not the retirement age, to raise, not the insurance system, but the wages. And to that end, our team has registered a bill that provides for the establishment of a minimum wage of 5,000 dollars per month from October 1st. So that people can get their wages legally. Because when wages go illegally in envelopes, when there is no record in the workbook, then there will be no pension. In fact, Ukrainians are robbed of their right to a decent old age and a decent pension. We require the government to support our bill, both from the parliamentary majority and to set a minimum wage of 5,000 dollars a month. Four million people in Ukraine receive a minimum wage. Before the holidays, parliament voted and a billion dollars were raised to prosecutors. Workers don't get paid! A billion dollars from the budget have been found to the prosecutors. What State Are We Building? It's not for prosecutors and judges to raise wages. Even though those who are honest must also receive a normal salary. But first of all, it is necessary to raise wages for working people so that they can feed their families and have a decent pension. Why do we insist on raising wages? Because an increase of up to two and a half wages added 12 billion dollars to the Pension Fund budget. Thus, normal pensions will be granted to Ukrainians only if they have high decent wages. It's a radical party policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u146	Please, P.O. Vojcitsicka. And then Babak. Please, Mrs. Wojcietzka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u147	To give Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u148	Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u149	On this weekend, like many others, I will not be with my family, I will go to the border of Ukraine and Poland to meet Michael Saakashvili. I want to say that, like all Self-Help and many others, I stand for the inviolability of Ukrainian borders during the war for independence. I'm sure Michael Saakashvili has the same position. But let us be honest with ourselves. Michael Saakashvili was deprived of his citizenship, not for being Georgian, but for endangering our national security. Yesterday, when the President of Ukraine addressed Parliament, he mentioned how Russia attacked Georgia first, and that there was then no courage and understanding in Ukraine of top-owners to condemn that decision. I wanted to ask the President during those words, and what does Ukraine today do with him in charge of the President of Georgia, who then stood up to Russian aggression and fought to the end? The truth about Michael Saakashvili is that nationality, citizenship is useless. He is persecuted just as Dmitr Bullach — a Ukrainian, a Harkianian, an anticorruption activist who was beaten by beasts last week. He is persecuted, as are Ukrainian volunteers, the first to defend his independence. Which are now being chased by a truck directly across the border, well-manned, well-armed, with no rights or reasons whatsoever. Just looking for explosives. The same people, Andrew, with whom you were in Ilowaysk, have the same people who were the first to defend their independence. If we're talking about nationality, I'd like us to look at this story from the other side. Armenians, Georgians, Belarusians, Jews, and many other nations came to us to help us choose our freedom and independence in Eromaydan after a sneak attack by Russian troops. At that time we greeted them, we thanked them, and today we go to the courts, where the deportation of these people is decided, the volunteers who came to protect our freedom with them. I'm going to go abroad with other people to show that Ukraine is not just a country of corrupt officials who play with the sacred notion of citizenship. Ukraine is a country of free and deserving people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u150	Next, please, Babak. I, the only thing I want to point out right now is that the performances go straight to 14:17. Period. Please, Mrs. Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! "The self-help union with optimism sees that we will soon be with you to implement the serious reforms in Ukraine that every Ukrainian faces. This includes pension reform, health care, and educational reform. At the same time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there any way you can stop this?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, our distinguished colleague Mrs. Babak is speaking. I can finish the session right now, if there's a mess in the hall, the session is today. I don't want to do that. A lot of people signed up for the show. So I'm asking you to give Mrs. Babak the right to speak now, three minutes, please. And the time of the other speakers at this time is running out, because we're going straight to 14:17. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! "The self-help union with optimism is looking at early reforms expected by every Ukrainian, pension reform, health care, education reform. And I think we will all support the adoption of the laws that will be proposed to this Parliament. At the same time, we are absolutely looking at the implementation of reform in the gas sector. The Naftogaz of Ukraine is starting to do things that are unacceptable in a country that is undergoing reforms in the sphere in the energy field before the heating season starts. Today, all of you, as majority deputies, will begin to be approached by local authorities and to point out that an unprecedented situation has taken place in this area with the signing of gas contracts between Naftogaz Ukraine and Heploenergo. What's going on? Naftogaz doesn't even send templates of contracts to sign anymore, they scan them and say, sign everything we've sent you, absolutely withdrawing from a model contract that was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, re-counting double fines. On a double scale, NBA accounts include fines on subsidies owed by the State in the recalculation. And they're just ultimulating that if you don't sign now, you're the gas that you're going to start the heating season, you're going to pay double, because it's going to be unsanctioned selection. We are today from this rostrum as the Self-Help Union, the only body that can still respond to the Naftogaz of Ukraine, which abuses its monopoly position, is the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please give a critical assessment of the contracts and the procedure imposed today by Naftogaz Ukraine to all companies in the field of heat supply for signature in this heating season. And we're also addressing you, honourable national MPs, to support the Housing Services Bill, which will be in order for the day to come, because we're stuck in it through codes. Today, no local self - government body can make a management agreement because there is no law on the JRC. Today, businesses are unable to work because there has been a collapse between the Law on Commercial Accounting of Water and Warmness and the Act. Guys, we need to clean up the housing-communal imbalances, remove everything that's going on, and start normal, non-chaotic housing-communal reforms. The Housing and Utilities Act 1581 awaits all local self-government authorities, all utilities, and all consumers who want to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Andrew Lozova, I beg your pardon, and then Ostrikova. Andrew Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u155	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. One wise man once said that if an apple ministry was created in Ukraine, there would be no apples and apples left in our country. Unfortunately, if you look at what is happening with the Ministry of Culture today, it works according to the same logic. Ukrainians are a great cinematographic nation. We gave the world to Sergey Paradjanova, Yuri Ilyenka, Kira Muratov, Victor Gresia, and hundreds more talented directors, actors, writers. What is happening to the film industry today? We, the Ukrainian Parliament, with the most active support of the Radical Party, have finally supported the Act on State Support for Cinematography, have allocated more or less normal costs over the past few years. What is our government doing today? According to the Deputy Culture Minister Tamara Mazur, who had not worked in the field for a day before her appointment, who, after two months working as Deputy Minister of Culture, received from some unknown merit the title "Deserved Lawyer of Ukraine", is now trying to privatise the Cinema of Alexander Long, a number of other film studios, including the 85-year-old legendary "Ukrakinochronic". Think of it, dear fellows! I've already called the names of Ukrainian geniuses, but our main classic is Alexander Petrovich Longzhenko, who is no less important in the history of the world cinematographer than Federico Fellini. Today, this study, which has been bearing his name since 1957, is a study where the genius films of his own Long, Yuri Illenka, Leonida Bikova, are now trying to privatize it and simply steal it from the Ukrainian people as they have done with the Odessa Film Studio. This is also done there by Tamara Mazur, deputy minister of culture. When we're told that it's unprofitable, there's an entirely opposite example, the Chinheitt study in Italy, where the famous Fellini pavilion. It makes incredible profits in the budget because the state does it, and we have everything they want to sell. Similarly, from Mrs. Mazur’s submission, there was a military, unsavory man in the field. Mr. Rudnik is appointed director of the Kyewovo-Pecher laurel Reserve. And it's actually happening in Lavre that it might fall off the UNESCO list. And now Laura, who's supposed to belong to the Ukrainians, is just going to turn into a private business. We have to put order in culture. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u156	Please welcome Mrs. Ostrikav, National MP. And then there's the national deputy of Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u157	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear tax payers, I want to contact you today because we have two months of automated tax check-in system in place. And, you could say, it's time to sum up the work of this system. It's emotional. The accountants hung themselves all summer, cried, called us, and beat the thresholds of the committee. We see on the committee that they're crying out, because it's just impossible to file a huge amount of documents electronically through the electronic office of the taxpayer, it's just a program, the technical complex isn't working, and accordingly the tax overhead is blocked, the buyer doesn't get the tax credit, he starts looking for another supplier, the company's work is blocked. Thus, the first results of the stopping system showed that the system does not always work properly. The Ministry of Finance’s risk criteria are completely defined, not by what is imperfect, but by what is short - lived. The State Fiscal Service hardware and software complex is not working properly. Hence, accountants and employees spend a large part of their time registering a tax return, and if it is not God - given blocked, months are spent unlocking the tax return and obtaining the right to a customer’s tax credit. The worst part is that, according to the Tax Code, the deadline for disclosure by the tax commission is 5 days. In fact, we had accountants coming to our committee on Wednesday who documented that they were still locked in tax receipts that were registered. They tried to register in June, July, at a time when the law set a five - day deadline. What does the Ministry of Finance tell us? And the Ministry of Finance will tell us that the system is functioning normally, it turns out, everyone is now receiving VAT compensation. I just want to remind the Ministry of Finance that VAT compensation, including through a large parliament that finally voted for a single chronological register, has begun to be implemented, normal compensation, since April 1st, and the system has been running automated check-ins since July 1st. Therefore, there is no need to bind things that are not attached to one another. The situation is critical now, and I would like to address the Prime Minister right now. Since the Ministry of Finance has failed to complete its work in this area, its criteria have freed large payers from monitoring and their overheads are not blocked, so the system beats on average business. We need the Prime Minister's personal attention, or we're going to register a bill to get this whole system back into test mode or cancel it at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u158	Please, National Deputy Halasyuk and then National Deputy Wolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u159	Dear Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Yesterday, from this rostrum, President Poroshenko addressed the next letter to the Supreme Council, referring to the summation of reforms and prospects for the future. We have carefully analyzed this message and the position of the Radical Party faction is clearly different from that of the President of Ukraine. The President believes that the main summary of three years of government reform is the visa-free regime with the European Union. Unfortunately, people see a very different summary: unemployment, which exceeded 10 percent, and among young people, it's almost 30 percent, it's mass poverty, and it's immigration from Ukraine, not only from working hands, but also from highly skilled engineers and entrepreneurs. Yesterday’s major challenges, called the 2019 presidential election, were populism, against reforms. In fact, the really important key challenges facing our country are identified by our team in the anti-crisis economic plan. And they lie in the deficit of investment, in the decline of production, because we have a raw economy in the mass poverty of the population, in emigration in the absence of confidence in tomorrow. These are challenges that the government really needs to address, not mimic reforms. All the efforts of all branches of government without exception must be directed toward their conquest. The president says about the economic growth of 1.8 percent this year, the expectation and expectation that by 2020 growth will accelerate to 4 percent. At this rate, we will never reach Europe. We Poland, if it stops in its development, at this rate we'll catch up to 30 years. And we understand that our neighbours will not stand and wait for Ukraine. So this scenario, which is this scenario of conservation of poverty, is this scenario of turning Ukraine into a technological, economic and civilizational region of Europe. This is totally unacceptable. We have another vision that was echoed by another great Ukrainian member of the Roman club, Bogdan Dmitrovich Gavrilishin. In his report to the Roman Club, he noted that Ukraine needed to grow by 8 to 10 percent a year to become a successful country and to contain inflation. Thus, the Radical Party’s plan provides for a specific set of measures, laws, government decisions that will allow for the attainment and fulfilment of this will of the great Ukrainian man, Mr. Gavrilishin. And the last. The president believes that land market and privatization are the main sources of investment. No, it's a waste of government property and a path to poverty. The main sources are raising the income of citizens and raising the Ukrainian industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u160	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Wolf and then Mr. Semimenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u161	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Honourable citizens, President Poroshenko has announced his intention during a visit to the UN General Assembly to intensify the review of Ukraine's appeal to open a peace operation on Donbas. The introduction of UN peacekeepers to Donbas to halt Russian aggression has been discussed in Ukraine since 2014. Regarding the need for Ukraine to consult the UN Security Council on the introduction of peacekeeping forces to control the interstate border with Russia, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljasko, stated in the autumn of 2014. In the spring of 2015, the Ukrainian authorities finally submitted this proposal to the international community. The President of Ukraine issued an appropriate decree, and the Supreme Council approved an appeal to the UN Security Council regarding the deployment of an international peacekeeping operation in Ukraine. The Radical Party faction in its entirety voted in favour. Ukraine has even submitted a draft resolution to the UN. In time, however, the Ukrainian leadership was involved in unsuspecting negotiations on the implementation of the anti - Ukrainian Minsk Accords and took a passive stance on its own initiative for a peacekeeping mission on Donbass, and in fact lost two and a half years, which cost many of the lives of our soldiers and civilians. Moreover, the Devil is in detail. A UN peacekeeping operation is appropriate if its mandate, area of deployment, principles of activity, conditions of completion and other components meet Ukrainian interests and legislation. However, Putin’s recent statement, which suddenly agreed to a UN peacekeeping mission on Donbassa, shows that Russia wants to take the initiative, cool it down, and use it for its own purposes. Putin wants to prevent the U.S. decision to provide arms to Ukraine, to ensure international legitimacy of fighters as parties to the conflict, and eventually to freeze the conflict on its terms. In view of Russia’s right to veto at the UN Security Council and the sad popularity of the peace policy among some countries, Ukraine is facing a difficult diplomatic battle with an unknown result. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska supports the initiative of the UN peacekeeping mission, while stressing the need for further reinforcement of the international anti-putinian front and sanctions policy, the implementation of security assurances from the Budapest Memorandum signatories, such as the establishment of a direct military agreement with the United States and the recognition of Ukraine as the main military ally outside NATO. That is the only true way to victory and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, people's representative of Semimenach, give me your word. And then we have the People's Deputy Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Chairman! Dear Ukrainians! Today, by my statement from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, I want to draw everyone’s attention to the events that are taking place in my hometown of Kharkiv. On August 30, in the middle of the day, our colleague, a district council member, was brutally beaten, known as the anti-corruption anti-Dmitry Bullach. In fact, in Kharkiv, after the Dignity Revolution, it is not the first time that people are brutally beaten in broad daylight, beaten by public activists, or by politicians. And unfortunately, no one today is called to account. But the beating has resulted from a series of events, such as harassment, the creation of an information blockade, persecution, and the fight against dissension. In fact, every second MP from Self-Help in the Harkow city council, the district council, is under some kind of criminal persecution. I think that the very atmosphere of hatred, impatience, and impatience have led to the fact that people are actually beaten in broad daylight. I call on the authorities in Kharkiv, in Kharkiv, to stop because there must be a limit to any political struggle. It's different. When you read newscassettes in Kharkiv today, it feels like it's the criminal chronicle of some Chicago in the 1930s. Read it, look. Fired cars, organized firefights in Kharkiv's sleeping areas, thefts, murders. In fact, I can speak boldly about Kharkiv becoming a criminal capital, and crime is actually the second power in the city of Kharkiv. In just a few years, more than 200 cars were burned in Kharkiv after the Dignity Revolution. No charger. About a tenth of a day, apartment thefts take place in Kharkiv. There is a mass shooting in the sleeping areas, at the center of the city of organized armed groups. I think it's just unacceptable. If we cannot ensure the actual rule of law, the security of every citizen, then the price of such authority in Kharkiv is gone. I call from this high rostrum those law enforcement agencies, among them many decent, decent, honest people in the city of Kharkiv, to restore peace and tranquillity to the peaceful city of Kharkiv and to put an end to political persecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u164	Please, National Deputy Rybak. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u165	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The issue of improving the legislative framework for the development of mountain areas, ensuring the population of these areas with quality and affordable educational, medical services – these are the main priorities in the Chernivecki, Ivano-Frankiv, Zakarpatski areas. The question of how to define the criteria for placing the population in high places and listing such population points in order to ensure that their education and health facilities are properly funded should be brought to a broad discussion. The development of areas and the provision of affordable quality services throughout the country are the main priorities for reforming local self-government and territorial authority, the focus of which should be on the individual and his or her interests. This reform is fundamental to sectoral reforms, including education and health care. And in carrying out the task of reform, we need to take into account the specificities of the mountain population. The lives of Ukrainians in the Visnické, Putilsky, Watchtower region of Cherniewec are very different from that of Ukrainians in the plains. Mountain areas do not have a full transport infrastructure because of the characteristics of the relief. Interconnection routes are not satisfactory. As a result, the network of educational and medical institutions in such locations is difficult to access. There are many other outstanding issues. Therefore, in implementing decentralization reform, we must take into account the geographical and territorial features of the Carpathian region. First of all, the need to develop these territories and to create the right living conditions for Ukrainians. The development of transport, utilities, telecommunications infrastructure and business-friendly conditions should be a priority for the development of mountain areas. The opening of crossing points across the state border of CAT "Russia", "Shepet" in the Putil region, as well as CAT "Krasnoglisc" in the Strážinetsky region will provide a new one. And it will contribute to the improvement of the socio-economic situation of the region in order to increase the welfare of the population. The development of tourism in Visinj, Putilščina, and Bukovina is possible only if the above measures are implemented. We have registered Bill 6439 on amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening State guarantees for mountain and high-rise settlements. This bill, after its adoption, will provide the opportunity to breathe business right in the Carpathian region. Reduce tax burden, improve the life of the mountains. I call on the leadership of the Supreme Council to put the bill under discussion as soon as possible and the entire Parliament to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honor. I understand that Mrs. Babak has already spoken. And now we have Mr. Chumak, right? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u167	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear citizens of Ukraine, yesterday, perhaps all or very many citizens listened attentively to the President's statement, his annual letter to the Supreme Council. There have been some very interesting reports, some very interesting victories that have been won over the last three years. But at the same time, there were a number of inaccuracies in the ears, which were, in other words, inaccuracies in the President’s speech. I didn't like the fact that the Supreme Commander was talking about the loss in the so-called ATO zone, he said that during the period of the "breath truce" we didn't have any people killed there or any fighting losses. Sadly, that is not the case. And it's only the last two days that we've had two losses, irreparable losses, fatal losses on the part of representatives or volunteer battalions, the militias of the Right Sector and the Ukrainian Volunteer Army. It is very bad that the Supreme Commander does not know the real losses of his fighters in the field of battle. It's very unpleasant, because people who know about these losses and bellah feel that the Supreme Commander is completely out of control in the field of battle. At the same time, the main problems that exist today in the country were identified. And you know, I liked that one of the problems is the presence of oligarchs in a country that don't allow for the development of Ukrainian economy today, politics and so on. And the main thing is that there's some kind of paradox here. Speaking of oligarches as a threat to the country, we can see how much these oligarches feel. One, using the formula "Rettardam Plus," capitalizes its enterprises on energy, coal and so on, another, using subsidies in the agrarian sector, increases its assets, buys villas, yachts, builds for billions of dollars. At the same time, the President's proposal was very interesting: in order for the MPs not to think that they were being targeted by legislative constitutional initiatives, it was suggested that parliamentary integrity should be removed from the table from 2020 for the next assembly of Parliament. I think that we should agree with the President's impeachment law, too, for the next summons, so that he doesn't think it applies to him personally. But what was not mentioned at all? It was not said at all what the coalition of MP factions had promised, and the President himself. Not a word of it has been said that any election in the country is equal to the bad electoral legislation that we're talking about. What's more, the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Paris is saying that there is no consensus on the Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u168	Thank you. The next speaker is Martovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u169	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! One who is forced from this rostrum to address the problems of disabled workers, namely disabled miners. The reason for this was the misunderstanding between the Ministry of Social Policy and the trade unions of miners as well as the social organizations of workers with disabilities, which represent the majority of shading disabled people and persons with disabilities in other professions. What are some of the questions that go wrong with a wheelchair? First of all, it's an improvement in insurance payments from 2007 to 2011. Second, amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance of 3.12.2009, at number 1317, on persons with disabilities in retirement on pension conditions beyond the age of age, the appointment of a regression on an indefinite basis, as well as the discussion of pension reform as a whole, in relation to workers who retired under the list of professions number 1. Yes, on June 14, 2017, corresponding letters from the Confederation of Free Trade Unions of the Dnipropetrov region were addressed to the Minister of Social Policy of Andria Reva and the Head of the Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Ukraine, Michael Wolinz. But the minister of the meeting did not appoint what he actually refused to negotiate. Instead, an informal meeting with representatives of four social organizations was held by the Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Olga Crentovsky. At this meeting, it was agreed to consider the modernisation of the regression payments for 2007-2011 in 2018, which gives the Ministry of Social Policy the opportunity to postpone the resolution of the issues that had been raised for an indefinite period. That is not the kind of concern that the representatives of professional social organizations, who represent the interests of most disabled miners, have been indignant and dissatisfied with the Ministry's actions. In turn, taking into account the Minister's unwillingness to hold a dialogue on the above-mentioned issues with representatives of most disabled miners in Ukraine, the public organization of disabled people in the Dnipropetrov region of Peace sent a message to Kiev's head, Vitalia, on September 14, 2017, at 10 a.m. near the building of the Minsk Peace Action to defend their rights. That's why I'm addressing you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, with a painful question. Is it not possible to deal more quickly with problems related to the disabled? Is it only necessary to sit at the negotiating table at the risk of public action? Moreover, the discussion of pension reform in the country is taking place fully and I think that the wishes of large groups of disabled workers, particularly disabled miners, should be heard and taken into account. In my view, there should be no additional problems where there should be no problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u170	Please, National Deputy Bondar is invited to speak, and then Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! As the coal miners continue to question coal miners, today asking the minister exactly what is the share of the billion that is going to go on to upgrade the mines to buy new equipment, he gave us the answer that, literally, there will be a distribution of those funds on Cabmine on Wednesday. I'm still hoping that even though part of this cost is going to get the sector out of the crisis, and in the rest of the field, it's going to be self-sufficient, and it's not going to be cost-effective, and we won't have to fund it. The second question is, wages. Repeatedly meeting with the Prime Minister, government members, the Ministry, trade unions, raised the question of raising wages for miners by 40 per cent. I know that these negotiations are already being held in the regions. Today, for example, there was this meeting at the Lviv coal DP, where the district chief was present, and he promised that from September 1st, 20 percent and two consecutive months by 10 percent, there would be an increase in wages for miners. So I'm going to the Ministry of Finance, the government, to give instructions here today to the relevant ministry, to find these funds, so that there's no problem in further funding the wages of coal miners, and at the end of the year, that there's no debt on wages. And third, this is the 2018 budget. Appropriately, all the articles and restructuring, and the modernization of our industries, and the purchase of self-saves, individual and collective protections, should also be, this article should be funded and the 2018 budget should include the figures that will further raise the sector to the right level. So once again, when I go to the government, I urge all of these things to work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u172	Please, National Deputy Lehchenko is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u173	Levchenko, Freedom, 223rd Shevchenkovsky district of Kiev. I listened carefully yesterday to the President's letter and was very surprised, although, in fact, not very surprised, I was surprised that it was he who said so openly, such an obvious thing when he called for the abolition of parliamentary immunity in 2020. Even though his party, Peter Poshenko Block, was going to the elections with completely different promises, even though other coalition partners were going to the elections with completely different promises, even though he himself, interestingly enough, passed a bill to undo the intactness in January 2015, yesterday he said something about 2020. Well, I think it's another ossification and an effort to put this issue away, another attempt to lie to the Ukrainian people, even though thousands of people were standing under the Supreme Council and saw this whole circus, when they were allegedly taking off the integrity of the six deputies. In fact, it was only taken off Dobkin and the rest of the 5 and so on. We can't keep arresting or holding. And despite the fact that the whole society is helping to get this rule out of the Constitution, the President is talking about 2020. But I would now like to address, in effect, the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, I am addressing you. There is now a bill registered in the Supreme Council, signed under which 158 members of the Supreme Council, members of the People's Parliament, in particular from your faction, Bill 6773. It completely duplicates your bill, which you filed in January 15, which received a positive conclusion from the Constitutional Court. Please put this bill to a final vote. And why I'm talking to you, I'm asking the President to move out, and because we understand who really controls most of the Supreme Council, who really controls the leadership of the Supreme Council, is the President of Ukraine. He has the largest faction, he controls the committee of legal policy. So put this bill to the final vote, Bill 6773. If it doesn't pass, society will see who lied during the election. Society will receive this list of specific deputies. And then you can take your 2020 initiative. That's logical, then it'll be in line with your election promises. And anything else is actually a direct lie to the Ukrainian people. So let's do this algorithm: 6773. We're voting, we're trying to take down the MP's immunity. If the Supreme Council is lying about it first, then let's propose in 2020, as you said yesterday. This will be fair before the Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u174	Please, National Deputy Vlasenko has the floor now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, much has been said today about the President's letter yesterday, but if he were to be characterized by one word, it would certainly be cynicism. Because it's cynical to hear about the problems of the Ukrainian army from a man whose corporation pays a billion rubles into the Russian Federation's budget and finances Russian aggression in Ukraine in this way. It is absolutely cynical to hear about the fight against corruption from someone who registers offshore so as not to pay taxes in the Ukrainian State. It's absolutely cynical to hear about populism from a man whose main slogan was that he was going to end the war in one week. This is populism, Peter Alexiovich. It's absolutely cynical to hear that he's the father of decentralization from a person who personally blocks the passage of a bill in this Parliament on the service of local self-government. It's cynical to hear about decentralization from a person who personally blocks in this Parliament the passage of the law of the authorship of the Fatherland MPs on the transfer to the property of the community of the land outside the population. It's all cynicism, Peter Alexiovich. It is absolutely cynical to hear that in Ukraine it is absolutely remarkable to have an investment climate, and it is possible to privatize from a person who has not yet sold her own business. If this is such a fine investment climate, Peter Alexiyovich, sell your business, and don't worry about people's heads. It is absolutely cynical to hear that he gave up a number of presidential powers, by the way, the same was said by Viktor Yanukovic when he passed the bill on the judiciary and the status of judges, from the person who increased his powers. Please tell me, what is the point of Article 106 of the Constitution that the President is authorized to appoint members of the NCRECR? What is the point in article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution regarding the influence of the President or the involvement of the President in forming a commission to elect the Head of the NABU? What section of article 106 of the Constitution provides for the participation of Presidential representatives in the NPC commission? And so on and so on and so forth. It's cynicism, Peter Alexiovich. This cynicism is said by Prashenka that he will lobby a referendum on NATO. Because it was Poroshenko who blocked the referendum three years ago that he wanted to hold the Fatherland for joining NATO. It's cynical to hear from Dusty about the regional rematch. Peter Alexiyovich, you were the Minister of Economics in the government of Yanukovic. You're a regionalist. You have a government minister who was the main economic ideologist on the Ahmtova team. You have a government minister of infrastructure who was the head of the government's Finance Minister, Azarov. There's a Berezenko in your faction who worked for the young team of Chernevski. You've already made up your mind. So cynicism, Peter Alexiovich, tells you about the rematch. You're cynical about fighting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u176	Please, National Deputy Krivenko will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u177	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. 28 years ago, on this very day in the KPI Hall, the assembly began, and in fact, the People's Movement of Ukraine for Reconstruction was created. As Talanchuk Peter told me, then the rector, in the room opposite, behind the doorways were machine guns, and people did not even know that the 1,109 delegates who came to the meeting were actually under the target. The People's Movement was created, it gained Ukrainian independence. And on this day, I want to start by thanking all the people who started this thing, which we are now continuing to do. In 1989 it was far more dangerous to be a motorist than to be one at the time of independence. And the greatest merit of the Founding Parents of the People's Movement is that we have the Ukrainian state. And I would like to thank all the leaders of the People's Movement who were both Mr. Durres and Mr. Gorin, Mr. Viachelav Maximovich Crnovola, Mr. Tarasyuk, Mr. Widowenko, Mr. Culbydi. You and I have seen how the authorities have always fought and destroyed the People's Movement. They killed Boitchin, they killed Chernobyl. By the way, I want to thank all the parliamentarians, the representatives of all the factions who signed the petitions to the Attorney General, for the first time in my life, we've raised 300 votes with you. It's about why there's no investigation into the murder of Chernobyl, and it's not being investigated. Three years ago, the closure was canceled, saying that it was just a simple accident. They don't add documents to the retrieval of caste. Unfortunately, there is no movement, and that is a big problem. I mean, the People's Movement is coming back. We have over 30 members of the party. We're going to local community elections. I'm sure in two months we'll be informing the communities where our representatives won these elections. I want to wish everyone the best and say that in 2019 there will be a faction of the People's Movement in this Parliament, I believe that. Once again, I welcome the motorists and all of Ukraine with our birthday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, join me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u179	Dear colleagues who are still here! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We all understand that it is important for all ministries and departments to perform their functions in order for the authorities to be effective. There is no one with education or education who says that for the Ministry of Health to buy drugs that are owned by the Ministry of Commerce or the Ministry of Economics, it is their business. To this end, we have repeatedly asked the Cabinet of Ministers to consider the creation of a separate structure that would be involved in the purchase of medicines and medical supplies. What we got, as the people say, on the exhaust. According to the concept of reforming public procurement mechanisms and medical elections approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, an appropriate structure is created. A temporary minister at the Cabinet meeting said that the organization would work on principles of self - sufficiency and that one of the sources of funding would provide the required charitable contributions. All normative acts of project preparation and implementation will also be carried out at the expense of charitable contributions. And what's most interesting is how the ministry gets rid of their incompetent purchasing functions. The purchasing organization will be formed by the decision of the Ministry of Health and will be subordinated to it. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and I would like an official answer. Who set you up with this project called "The Creation of a Procurement Organization that will function at the expense of charity contributions and which is created by the Ministry of Health? Who made you a laughingstock in front of the Ukrainian medical community? The whole point is that the Ministry of Health should be doing a completely different job, a health care organization. Mistakes are obvious. A selection of international organizations has been made in such a way that, to date, the purchase is being carried out by a Crown Agents organization, let's say, which is purchasing for underdeveloped Third World countries. This or ministry has recognized Ukraine as a third world country, or this organization, to which it is not properly purchased, will continue to violate its basic duties. They don't work for free, international organizations got 100 million in 2015 for their work, in 2016 -- 200 in this year -- 300 million now, and there is no medicine at all today. I have an appeal to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office. Find out why in 2017, in 2016, drugs don't go to hospitals, people die. Please pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u180	Please, People's Deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u181	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! The session came together, the same problems. For six months from this rostrum, I've been talking about how the Ukrainian Security Service is destroying competition and killing small and medium-sized businesses, whether it's just small companies, whether it's a tight gas trader, or whether it's a more systemic business. The compressed gas traders, thanks to competition, you, the honourable Ukrainians, could drive cheap: 8-9 bucks per liter, now 16-17 bracelets per liter of creaked gas, and that's a direct price. This is the case when the money you stole from your pocket, the money you saved earlier to raise your child to school so that you can prepare for the school year. Now you're overpaying. And then it's going to be the cost of food because all of the carriers are saving up, and so are the gas. Why did such a price arise? Because instead of looking for divers to fight terrorists who undermine people in the center of Kiev, they do business. And Medvedchuk gets his quota, home to both the Ukrainian BSS and the Russian Federal Export Control Service, and actually becomes the main player in this market. Where does the antitrust committee appointed by this parliament look? We voted for him, we gave the Groissman a request to figure it out, we handed over a request to Paris to figure it out. We demanded that the head of the antitrust committee come and report from this rostrum. Instead, Parliament is wasting time on how to talk, how much louder it is to claim love for Ukrainian citizens, and not to solve the problems of these citizens. So the monopoly, we have the nitrogen fertilizers and the Firthash. The Ministry of Economics allowed him to become a monopoly, and then these nitrogen fertilizers would also fall on the cost of food. And then don't ask us why we have such expensive cucumbers, tomatoes, or peppers, because it's all carried on gas, and so do nitrogen fertilizers to make it grow. In thermal energy, in the Ahmat concentration, the Antimonopoly Committee doesn't notice that. The chicken, in Kostuka concentration, and from the budget 800 million we pay with you Ukrainian citizens, because he needs to buy another yacht to drive between the coast of Lazur France and Sardinia. And the fact that the power structures become a tool is a disgrace at all. And it's not just the TV. A group from Kharkiv came to Parliament yesterday. The New Water Abrasive Plant is a company that orders European markets, with 300 jobs that generate currency revenues that pay taxes. The police came in, the M.E.S., took out all the technology, removed all the samples, removed all the products. The rest is being broken down by international orders, with the rest at risk of the company’s existence altogether. It's like a competition complaint. They ask a competitor, he says, "I didn't write anything. I have no claim to you." So the force goes straight to the racquet mode instead of doing direct functions. And we demand that we put an end to this. Because if we move on like this, our country is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u182	The last speaker for today. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u183	Dear Ukrainian people! The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! On my way home, I was stopped by the police. I think, "What happened?" Ask to be understood when examining a detained wrongdoer. And the wrongdoer is a young man with a two - year - old child on his hands, completely drunk, completely drunk, running away from law enforcement. Where the child was in the front seat. The next day, I received a phone call from two Vasilian schoolgirls, both of whom the same drunken bastard knocked down on the road and took life. And that's when the idea of Bill 7064 began, which, along with the leader of our Radical Party, Oleg Ljashk, we present to Parliament. The idea of the bill is simple enough. Sad to say, the Soviet authorities imposed on the Ukrainians an inconsequential phenomenon — drunkenness. Drinking at the wheel. Let's remember, in culture, they're used to dust seals, they've been drinking. Actually, no. When the Ukrainians marched on horseback, they never used alcohol. And so we're proposing with Oleg Lashk that he/she be deprived of his/her right to drive with the vehicles of those who were driving in a state of drinking alcohol. In addition, we believe that a person who is deprived of his driver’s license on the basis of this and who is on the driver’s seat should be in prison for up to five years. In addition, criminal responsibility for those who committed alcohol abuse with severe consequences should begin with 10 years of deprivation of liberty. I mean, he maimed a man, killed a man, at least ten years in prison. Only through such hard measures can we train our Ukrainian nation, Ukrainians who have been trying for decades to turn into cattle, respect each other, and become real Ukrainians. The Ukrainian does not drink. We're for a healthy Ukrainian nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-09-08-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, allow me a brief announcement, please. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting a change in the governing composition of the MP group of the Rebirth Party. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Victor Bondar, has been elected as the deputy leader of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Artem Ilyuk. We want fruitful work in these high offices. And also, dear colleagues, let me thank you for the first session week of the new session, for your constructive work, for all of us following the Rules. And let me remind you that people's deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions next week. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, September 19th, from 10 a.m. And after the factions, we will continue to consider the amendments, and there are 4100 amendments to the codes. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
