ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u1	Good morning, Ukrainian national deputies! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, while the deputies are entering the hall, let me explain the logic of today. So, as was said a week ago, the first block is a block of agrarian politics. I stress that among them are laws that are needed simultaneously for European integration. Then we're going to have a day-to-day session block. And I very much ask the factions to consult so that we can get through this block quickly and effectively. We also make it our goal to adopt the Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. This is a bill that envisions comparing the Heroes of the Celestial 100 to the participants in the fighting. And I am sure that the eve of Maidan’s anniversary will be a matter of principle for all of us and that we will be able to unite. And second reading is rural medicine, the Law on Access and Quality of Medical Services. And after lunch, the budget issue, first reading. So we have a very tense and full daily routine, so we need to work hard. So, are you ready to register? Take up jobs. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please. [[10:03:33]] 352 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today's our colleague Alexander Ivanovich Danchenk's birthday. Welcome to the nominee's birthday. Welcome. [[Applause]] And I remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes to announce statements, messages, proposals from MPs. I want to emphasize from the MP factions. And I ask all factions to participate in the record now. So please prepare and record. Please log in. So, for the first performance, I'm giving a speech to Maxim Burbak, Head of the People's Front. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u2	Congratulations, fellows of honor! For days there was a rally of the political party "The People's Front". First of all, we wanted to tell the Ukrainians about the results of our work over the past three years, we have something to tell them, and we will certainly bring the truth to the people. I just want to remind you that we were not afraid to take responsibility for the looted country and hundreds of thousands of dollars in treasury for 45 million citizens, and the destruction of the army, and the debt pit before the Kremlin's Gazprom. War has begun. There was little driving, no flying, no shooting, nothing to pay pensions, no wages. Compare this with what we have today. At the People’s Front meeting, he identified himself with the main focus of his activities for the future. We will do everything we can to combat Russian armed aggression and further strengthen the defence sector. The return of Crimea and Donbas should take place only in strict harmony with national interests. Continue to work on strengthening Ukraine's energy security and economic growth. We believe that Ukraine must go to the European Union to get a list of the criteria and conditions for becoming a member of the European Union. Negotiations need to be resumed to obtain a plan of action for Ukraine's membership in the alliance. Ukraine's best security guarantee is NATO membership. Another important issue is constitutional change for a clearer allocation of powers and a balance of responsibility between the branches of government under the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic. Maybe someone forgot that. The party’s assembly voted to initiate an active, open, substantive discussion on constitutional reform in the field of central authority, the distribution of powers, and responsibilities among branches of government. We are considering such reform as the way to order the system of government, according to the Euro-Atlantic course chosen by the Ukrainian people. At the same time, the People's Front calls for Ukraine's legislation to be brought into line as soon as possible. These are some of the main tasks that we will be working on in the coming years. The Act on Restoration of Ukraine’s Territorial Integrity is now in order. Parliament should accept it on Thursday. That's the People's Front requirement. We cannot postpone the Return of Ukrainian Territory Act, a law where, in addition, Russia will eventually be recognized as an aggressor. I appeal to all factions to support this bill. This will be the basis for forming a consolidated claim to Russia for the damage caused to our country. Next. Bills of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be tabled in Parliament today to increase the responsibility for violations of traffic regulations. We are growing sad statistics on road deaths because of drunk drivers. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is in favour of increasing driving penalties, introducing photos and videos of traffic violations and increasing accountability for administrative misconduct. We believe that these laws should be adopted as soon as possible. So, Mr. Head, we ask you to put these bills today for inclusion in the agenda, to consider the profile committee on Wednesday, and to put them to a vote on Thursday. I'm sure there won't be any deputies in this room who won't be able to resist any security measures on our highways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u3	Thank you, thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, from the Rebirth Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u4	Oleg Kulinic, MP's Rebirth Group, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Last Tuesday's Rebirth Group raised an extremely important problem that exists today in the state, which is the problem of raiding. A week ago, more than 100 armed people in Poltavska were trying to take over the Orzicka agro-firm, and if it wasn't for the people who came out to defend this enterprise, if it wasn't for the operational activities of law enforcement agencies, the National Police and the Prosecutor's Office of the Poltav region, which worked differently, we would have lost this enterprise. And it's 350 jobs, it's a job, it's a payday, it's actually everything that makes the village live. Last Friday, I asked the Justice Minister Paul Petrenko during the "hour of questioning to the government," how could the Notary do the right, do the registration on this enterprise when there was a restraining order? The minister assured us that the case was under the control of the law enforcement authorities, that the registration of the notary would be monitored and that the penalties would be imposed. Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman responded, who assured the raiders that they would have a hard answer, which was a criminal attraction. After my speech, I received a tremendous number of appeals from the city of Dnipro, of Kiev, from ordinary citizens, all related to the illegal actions of this very notary of Pavlovsky. It turns out that this notary was involved in questionable devices related to the bankruptcy of the Horol children’s diet in Poltavian. So I have a logical question, why does this notary work so far? Why does this notary have access to the register so far? And how much longer do we have to carry out such raids, in paws, in the state, so that Minust can finally react? And basically, I've been seeing people, and people don't believe that this thing is going to end. That's why the Rebirth Task Force refers to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Avakov, the Attorney General, Yuri Lucenka. We must bring the matter to a logical conclusion, and the question is not just in the notary. I think it's clear to everyone that it's a Ryder scheme and it's a problem for the whole state. And this problem needs to be solved immediately. Therefore, the culprits must be severely punished, and we need to take the example of an enterprise from Poltavska, for example, an agribusiness called Orzicka, to restore people's trust both in Parliament and in government and in law enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u5	Thank you. I'd like to invite the leader of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk, please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u6	This week can be an important week in the history of the Ukrainian State. This week we can pass the law on the reintegration of Donbas, as the President calls it, or the law on reality. It's very important that we adopt a law that says that an aggressor is the Russian Federation, occupy part of the Ukrainian territory and specify a specific date. This will help those who remain in occupied territories and will be protected by international law. This will help our boys who are captured and will be de jure prisoners of war. This will help Ukraine, which will tell the world in Europe, that there is a brutal and bloody war in the centre of Europe between East Despotion and Western Democracy and Ukraine is the first order of this Western democracy. But this will happen when the Ukrainian Parliament makes its decision and tells the world and its people about it. When society and mankind began to develop, every emperor, the king, wanted and wanted to use the armed forces for his own protection. And when parliaments arrived, parliaments first controlled how rulers used an army — against their own people or against their enemies. In this law we must ensure that the Ukrainian army is used exclusively against the enemy, protecting the Ukrainian people. In this law and in the country's budget, we have to say that the Ukrainian state's defence spending has to be controlled and transparent for civil control and parliamentary control in this room. Then the money of the Ukrainian people they put on the army will be created by the Ukrainian army, which is a guarantee of Ukrainian independence. And the second document that we can accept today, this week in the first reading, is the country's main document, the country's budget. But it has to be filled with sources that feed oligarhat today, not from the pockets of Ukrainian pensioners, Ukrainian doctors and Ukrainian teachers, and most importantly, Ukrainian cities. So in this budget, we're going to protect Ukrainian medicine, which is underfunded, even though you and I have passed a quality law on its reform and Ukrainian self-government. When money is taken from the city’s budgets and paid to the police state by funding the prosecutor’s office, the IMF, it is unacceptable that the money of Ukrainian taxpayers of small and medium-sized businesses should go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u7	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u8	Ukrainian taxpayers' money, small and medium-sized businesses went to those in the Attorney General's Office and the police who came and robbed them like glue. These are signs of a colonial system of government. Ukraine is and will be the first order of democracy and democratic civilization in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party, leader of the Oleg Valeriyovich Ljasko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I say that Peter Poroshenko embraces the office of President of Ukraine, but he does not exercise the powers conferred upon him by the Constitution of Ukraine. Half a year, the National Bank of Ukraine without a head, because the attitude of Petra Poshenko Gontareva, who in fact destroyed the banking system that was robbed for the mishap, for the inaction of today's power and personally of President Prashenko, robbed millions of Ukrainians, took their savings, but for six months the President of Ukraine did not exercise authority and did not submit to Parliament a new head of the National Bank of Ukraine. We're going to have price increases, inflation is absolutely unfavourable for our national producer to have an economic situation. The National Bank, which should take all measures to support, stimulate economic development, we have a six-year head of the National Bank on vacation, and the President of Ukraine doesn't care that there is no competent leader of Nazbank to pursue policies of economic growth and protection of the national producer. The other one. Central Election Commission: Under the CLTC Act, the term of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission for 7 years, 13 of the 15 members of the CLTC have exhausted this term of office, we have had CLF for 10 and a half years. I was forced to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court to force President Dustenk to exercise his constitutional powers and to file a motion to Parliament for the appointment of new members of the CLTC. The verdict was in our favor. Only after the decision of the court did the President file the motion. But what a presentation! Eight out of the 15 candidates offered by the powder to the CLTC represented the BP. Why, then, should we hold elections? What is the purpose of forming a new composition of the CLTC when the election results can be drawn in the Presidential office? That's why today's composition is held by President Poshenko for one reason -- because he knows he won't win the next presidential election and the only way to stay in power is to fake the results of the election, which is why Dustenka needs the Ohendowski. What's more, they're lying, they're lying to Ukrainians, that factions haven't submitted candidates to CLTC, and that's why Dustenko can't make a proper submission. That's not true, and our faction, and as far as I know, all the other factions have filed this submission. And so we insist that Dustenko fulfil his constitutional duties and put an uninvolved composition on the Central Electoral Commission so that all factions can vote for it. We're warning the Ukrainians about the dictatorship they're trying to establish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u11	Please give the next speech from "The will of the people." People's deputy Ribczynski, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u12	Good day, dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! A year ago, nearly a year ago, deputies from various factions and groups introduced to Parliament a new bill called (5496) amending the Labor Act on holidays and non-working days, with regard to celebrations near January 7th and December 25th. What is the meaning of the bill? It should be noted that only 3 of the 15 local Orthodox churches in the world celebrate Christmas on January 7, the rest of the 12th, including Constantinople, Jerusalem, Poland, Czech, Bulgarian, and all the others celebrate December 25. That is to say that 7 January – Christmas is not allowed, in principle, because most Orthodox churches celebrate Christmas before New Year's Eve, not after. As early as 1923, the All - Orthodox Council in Constantinople decided that Orthodox Christians of the world would celebrate the Christmas of the Cross, according to a more accurate Gregorian calendar. And only countries that were significantly influenced by the Soviet Union refused to comply with the Council’s decision. As we know, the Russian Federation was the successor of the Soviet Union, which annexed our Crimea and occupied significant areas of Ukrainian Donbas. Russia has never accepted the European aspirations of an independent Ukraine, and one such desire is to convert to the common Christian values on which European civilization is built. December 25 is not just a day when 2 billion Christians celebrate Christmas, it is not just a day when 11,000 Christian communities in Ukraine celebrate the greatest Christian holiday. This is the day when the day is renewed, cleansed, united for good, faith, and hope. The celebration of December 25 next to January 7 will promote unity and understanding among many Christian communities in Ukraine. Two Christmas days are already celebrated by our closest neighbors, Belarus and Moldova. The will of the people, along with other progressive factions, will vote on the basis and generally in favour of Law 5496, which will give the Ukrainians another holiday before New Year's Eve, a new year from Christ's Christmas. Bless you, Lord. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u13	Please be the next speaker. The head of the Peter Prashenko faction, Arthur Gerasimov. Mr. Arthur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u14	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! As you know, last Friday, the Party of Peter Dustenka Solidarity held a forum for the heads of the united territorial communities, the winners of the elections. Four minutes after the election of the OTG heads, which is an essential stage in the implementation of the decentralization reform initiated by the President of Ukraine, which has been established and legislatively implemented here in this room. And our faction, along with the coalition, was among the first. In recent years, 427 new community leaders have been selected, of which 261 are more than 60 percent, either candidates or supporters. By choosing these heads, society has made a choice in favor of decisive changes, not criticism or populism. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Call will be in history as one that has begun the most decisive changes and most decisive reforms. And one of the most important is the fight against corruption. At the same time, the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko is outraged by charges against the Attorney General's address regarding the recovery of funds looted by the previous authorities. I recall that this year more than one and a half billion U.S. dollars were returned to the State Treasury. This money is again working for Ukrainians in the fields of medicine, education, and social support. And it seems that the absurd accusation is making an attempt to recover these funds from those who stole them. Such statements call into question the work of all bodies called upon to fight corruption, including those created. So even more acute is the question of ensuring the maximum transparency of law enforcement agencies, including the NABU. In view of this, one of the urgent tasks of Parliament is to elect an independent, I stress, an independent NABU auditor at the earliest possible date. With regard to the agenda, the Supreme Council’s priority this week is the adoption of the State Budget Bill 2018. However, before considering the draft Law on State Budget, the Supreme Council should first adopt the most important subsequent bills. 6776-d, changes to the Tax Code. And in the first reading, Bill 7116 on amending the Budget Code, in particular on the financing of the territorial communities and on the financing of health care in the context of medical reform. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko expresses a firm and unalterable position on the need to preserve the road experiment initiated by the President of Ukraine. Work on road cover restoration and road infrastructure in all areas of Ukraine must continue on an unprecedented scale. Today we also have to finally adopt the presidential bill on rural medicine 7117. This law will update the material and technical base of rural health facilities, including modern equipment and the creation of comfortable reception conditions for patients. Medical care for rural and rural residents will become more accessible and much more quality. We also ask the profile committee to consider as soon as possible a bill relating to the construction of the Museum's Heroes of Heaven (6659). I sincerely hope that after the Committee's decision, Parliament will adopt this unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u15	Let me finish. Done? Thank you very much, Mr. Arthur. Please, from the Fatherland faction, Reverend Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I was pleased to hear the report of the President's faction party just now, but I want to say that tomorrow the Party of Fatherland was planning to hold its meeting at the Ukrainian House. And you know that we were pre-prepared, everything was rented, paid for. But last night, almost at night, the president of Ukraine ordered the team to simply expel the Motherland convention from the Ukrainian House. And he said there were more important steps to be taken. I just want to tell you that it's not a matter of getting together, it's not a matter of a party, it's a question of getting back to all the traditions of Yanukovich. Today, the new Janukovic is ruling the country. And just like Fatherland got kicked out of the Ukrainian House to not allow a convention, we'll even spend it on the street, just like today they're throwing farmers out of their lands through raids, they're kicking people out of their apartments, when they're not paying just hard fares, so today they're breaking criminal cases against the middle class and doing searches if these middle-sized entrepreneurs don't go to the President's Party. It's scary. And at the same time, the fourth budget we're going to be taking this week. The fourth budget, four virtual strategies per year, was implemented by this authority. And today we hear that 144 reforms have been implemented, and the country has begun to live better. But for us to have direction, we need to look at what the world says about us. So just a few days ago, the U.S. Gallup Institute announced another poverty rating. We, Ukraine, have entered three of the world’s poorest countries along with countries such as Haiti and South Sudan. Tell me, when were we led to this condition? Over the past 3.5 years, we have come down to a 45 - position United Nations happiness rating. Do you understand what this is? It's a global tragedy. This is essentially a humanitarian disaster in our country. And I want to ask you, who can call this success and reform? And besides, when you're told about the budget, remember that we also got into the three world leaders at the level of the shadow economy. The International Association of Accountants has included Ukraine in three countries, with the largest shadow economy. Half of Ukraine's gross domestic product is in the shade, and the budget they want again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u17	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u18	Pushing again for the next year virtually kills our country with a direct shot. Twice below the currency of GDP, twice the people's income on the currency scale. Where are we going? And so the immediate review of the strategy, the immediate evaluation of the real situation. And stop lying to the country, you have to be honest that we're in a tragic state and you have to find a way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u19	Last performance by factions. Please, the leader of the Opposition Block faction, Yuri Boyko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u20	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! It has become evident to all that the authorities have finally lost the trust of their citizens and are unable to rule the country. Without exception, all initiatives and reforms are aimed, not at the benefit of the Ukrainians, but at the harm. By the end of the year, there are three plenary weeks left, and we urge Parliament to address specific issues that are of practical importance to all citizens of Ukraine, namely: first, before the budget is approved, to listen to the government report; secondly, we ask the government to present a programme for the exit from the economic crisis. If we're not able, we're ready to give our version, adjust the budget, reduce the cost of a power block for the benefit of social programs. No police state can contain a hungry nation. Internal stability is no less important than the protection of external borders. To define a clear and consistent programme for ending the conflict and returning territories in the eastern part of the country on the basis of the Minsk Treaties, in view of the international resonance, to hold open parliamentary hearings on the Education Act and to make the necessary adjustments to this law. In the medical field, there was an emergency. Ukraine, together with African countries, is at risk of epidemics, which is WHO data. Not only does the adopted Law on Medical Reform make the epidemic worse, it will make medicine inaccessible to most Ukrainian citizens. We demand that this pseudomedical reform be lifted. Newspapers have been rife with headlines since the '90s: murders, robberies and violence have swept the streets of Ukrainian cities, and people are afraid to leave their homes. We demand that we immediately hear the report of the rapists, hold a special session of Parliament on the criminogenic situation in the country. This authority is used because it is uncontrollable to anyone in the country. We demand that the opposition be transferred to the monitoring function, that an ombudsman be appointed, that the head of the Court of Auditors be appointed from the opposition, that the management of the regulatory and budgetary committee be appointed, and that the Opposition Act be voted upon. We have a clear plan and a bill on each of these points, we know what to do, because every day we hear a voice of despair from the areas. The authorities should either act for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens or give their authority and declare the elections for the term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u21	Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to the agenda, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. We're moving to a block of agrarian politics. The first question is: The draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products. — Number 5448. So that we can effectively address these issues: both rural medicine and the budget, I'm going to propose every issue from the agrarian block to review the reduced procedure. And I'm counting on the support of the House and the support of the People's Deputies. So I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote, please. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the motion to review draft Law 5448 on a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues. Committee members, help me. [[10:32:44]] For 106 I'll put it back on, colleagues. I just want to warn you that if we don't follow a reduced procedure, we're going to have an agrarian block for the rest of the afternoon. We may not be able to move on to other matters of the order of the day, and this is true of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, which is also true of rural medicine. I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'll put it to the vote again, please. I ask the heads of factions to invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the People's House. Colleagues, can we vote, are we all in? Please take up jobs. This is one vote, but it may depend on the whole structure and logic of today. So, are you ready? I am voting on the proposal to review draft Law 5448 on a reduced procedure. And I emphasize, every voice matters. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:35:30.]] For-127 Don't shout, I'll ask you three times, like every question, now it's gonna be one more time. And, colleagues, I ask you to take a responsible approach to this vote. I stress once again that this vote will determine the logic of the day. Now I'm going to put the vote again. If we don't have 150 votes, we'll move on to the full procedure. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Please mobilize the factions' heads. So, I would like to stress, now I'm going to put the last one on the vote, the reduced procedure. If there aren't any votes, we're going to go through with it. All right. Why are you leaving the hall? I'm voting on a motion to review Law 5448 on a reduced procedure, and I'm asking the heads. members of the committee to help convince the national MPs. So, if you'll excuse me, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Every voice, be careful! [[10:37:39]] For-149 Colleagues! We didn't make it. Oleg, there was 150. One vote on the board. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't make it, one MP. Don't shout. I see. My colleagues, I'll put it again. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[10:38:25]] For-137 The decision is not taken. And we are going to consider the full procedure of the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products, 5448. And I invite you to report to the deputy minister of agrarian politics and food, Sheremet Viktor Vasilovich. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u22	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products has been developed with the aim of improving the principles of legal regulation of organic production, circulation and labelling of organic products, adapting Ukrainian legislation to the requirements of EU legislation in the field indicated. The provisions of the current Ukrainian Law on Organic Agriculture and Commodity Production and Circumstances do not ensure the proper functioning of the organic product market, and in some parts even conflict with EU legislation and the practices of organic-producing countries. Instead, the proposed terminology proposed by the Act is brought into line with EU legislation and is in line with Ukrainian legislation. Established clear and transparent rules, principles and requirements for organic production, circulation and labelling of organic products that are fully in line with EU legislation and contribute to market development: principles and mechanisms for certification of organic production, circulation of organic products and requirements for certification bodies are laid down; established foundations for the maintenance of open registers of market operators, certification bodies, organic seed and the collection of official statistics on the state of the organic product market and public access to this information; a transparent mechanism for the monitoring of organic products by labelling from producer to consumer is established; administrative responsibility of operators for infringements of organic production legislation is provided. At the same time, the requirements of EU legislation that have not entered into the draft Law will be implemented through the adoption of regulations. Taking into account what has been said, please support the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products, whose implementation will enhance the competitiveness of domestic organic production and the expansion of its external markets, and will also guarantee consumers confidence in organic products and will have a positive impact on the protection of organic market operators against unfair competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u23	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Now, if you'd like to ask the reporter a question, please record the question. Mr. Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u24	The Honourable Deputy Minister, well, we all know that you are, in fact, said to be, from the statue and the well-known agrarians in Ukraine. But what I want to ask you is, according to this law, how do you see that bioagrarians will do this in Ukraine if so many chemicals are pouring on these fields, and they're destroying this land -- two, three, three raps are sowing? And you know what it is for the earth when so many seasons should be said to be a couple to rest the earth. So, frankly, when I vote in favour of this law, I vote in favour of it, I want my children and most of the children to eat bioproducts. But what's happening to the earth right now, I think it's abuse of our greatest wealth that there is. And people are sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u25	Thirty seconds. Oh, we're done. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u26	Dear Sergey Grigorovitch, what you might say about your question is, well, small organic production in Ukraine is usually small farms that can't buy much, a lot of fertilizer, a lot of chemistry that you're talking about. And we have a lot of small farmers doing organic production, using mechanical soil processing. And this product in them, you could say, is organic, but not certified, not brought to the final consumer as we would like. And accordingly, it's sold for the same price that's being sold and the product that's being grown with the use of big chemistry. So this bill is aimed at supporting small-scale producers of organic production.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovitch is handing over Sergei Sobolev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u28	Mr. Sheremet, the "Fatherland" faction, please tell me you read this bill. Is it not cynicism to call organic products that use chemicals that use cleaning products that are not organic, and simply label them? Well, can this product be called organic? And that's why it's organic that we separate it when we don't use any things that are used for inorganic production. What's the novel about? Show me at least one European country where you take bioproducts, organic products, and it says, "Use of restricted substances or substances." It's written in your bill. How can this be suggested in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u29	Today, there is really a note in the first reading of this bill, and there are problems. I think by the second reading, these nuances will be taken into account and there will be still ways to solve these issues. But in general, the bill provides for at least 95 percent of the use of organic products in the production of the product.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u30	Thank you. It's time for questions. Well, there's no time. Does it matter? Please, Ivan Krulko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u31	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Your Honor, you know, in this session room, it's not often that they mention the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'd like to refer right now to the conclusion of the GNEU on this bill that you're reporting. It's a government bill. But even now, in answering my colleague Sobolev's questions, you said that this bill was very imperfect and needed for the second reading to be further developed. Why submit inadequacies to first reading, all the more so than the government? That's the first one. The other one. Notice that this law, according to GNEU, is a more effective law and is more consistent with European standards and standards than you are now reporting and proposing. So the question is, why don't we change the law in force instead of passing a new one that's worse, in the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and in our opinion, our faction, than the law that is now in operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u32	If opponents say that this bill is less perfect, you can say, well, there are arguments that responsibility is already foreseen by other legal acts under this document. But we see in our lives, in our practice, the more responsibility there will be, the better things will be in our lives. Because for today, you know, well, touch all the spheres of our lives, there's an irresponsibility. The Law provides for greater responsibility for branding and other negative phenomena in organic production.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u33	Thank you, thank you for the report, Victor Vasilovich. You can take your place in a government bed. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations of Bakumenko Alexandr Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, discussed at its meeting on February 7, 2017, the draft Law on Basic Principles and a Requirement for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Production (register No. 5448 of 24. 11th-2016, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The bill proposes to improve the legal framework for organic production, circulation and labelling of organic products; to establish rules for the implementation of organic certification and certification requirements for certification bodies. The adoption of the bill will increase the competitiveness of domestic organic farming and increase the external markets for organic production, as well as increase the requirements for non-certification of organic products, which will allow Ukrainian producers of organic products to take their place confidently in the consumers of this product, both in Ukraine and in the European Union. Please support Law 5448 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u35	Thank you. Please record the question. Please stay with Alexander Borisovich. Ruslan Dmitrovitch is handing it over to Odarchenkov, right? Please, Odarchenko. Turn on the Odarchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u36	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you have said very well and much about the fact that this law will bring happiness to Ukrainians and health to future generations, but I would like to ask you: how could this law be allowed to provide for the use of antibiotics, cleaning and disinfection in organic production? Yet, a respected colleague, an organic product made using such substances, cannot be compared with an organic one. We saw Bush's legs lying on the heat for months -- and they didn't collapse, they didn't decompose because antibiotics were used there. Under beautiful slogans, like we're going to be eating organic products, you're stretching out the standards that destroy all your beautiful conversations. Please explain how antibiotics can be used in organic products.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u37	Dear colleague, what rule of law do you refer to, please specify? If you'll excuse me, let me know what you mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u38	Turn on the microphone, please, Odarchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u39	There are relevant articles in this law that provide for the use of antibiotics as a means of cleaning and disinfecting organic products. It's a government bill, you're the head, one of the committee heads, look, you'd better know what the rules are. I emphasize that this is a crime against the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u40	Maybe you have disinfectants that are used in the blink of a vortex, but not antibiotics. Our legislation prohibits the use of food for today. And these seem to me to understand what you're saying are the means that. disinfections that are currently used in packaging and all products. It's not food, it's packaging and means of transport. So what exactly are you referring to?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next to sign up for the question will speak in the discussion. And so thank you, Alexandra Borisovich, for the answers to the questions. And now we're going to have the factions. And I'm asking all the factions who want to participate in the discussion to record the performance. Please. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I think there is no doubt in this room that the life and health of the nation is one of the key strategic objectives, including the work of power. The task of the authorities is to ensure that no food is harmful to human health. Now we're looking at a bill that's very well called "the basic principles and requirements of organic production," but in fact, as long as it's always called laws, it's covered with lobbyism, which even the law that exists today and which is very imperfect, but although it somehow protects the health and life of people, it's overstepped by the law because there's exclusion. I mean, organic production is described correctly, but then it's given the Ministry of Agrarian Policy the right to introduce such permits and deviations, which is an extraordinary corruption. For what can they give a deviation? For the use of any drugs that are banned today, if there's a manufacturing merit, including antibiotics, including cleaning and disinfection, that means that organic products will be called products that are deadly to human life and health. Moreover, this law stipulates that if the Ministry of Agricultural Policy has allowed deviations from the rules and regulations of organic production, this is not indicated in the labelling of these products and products, it means that branding will remain for organic production and will actually sell poisonous products that are dangerous to human health and life. And that's why, in addition to that, there's no responsibility entirely valid for breaking organic production standards and regulations, and it's also a right not to cancel the license, but simply to make a note. And now a know-how, for wholesale trade, you don't need to trade organic products at all. This is just high - level corruption, and it is corruption in life, and the health of the Ukrainian nation. The vote is against the red buttons.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u43	Thank you. From the Radical Party Lozovy Andry Sergiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u44	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Will the Ukrainian village be okay? Will the Ukrainian peasant be all right? Would it be good for the Ukrainian cow to finally think about it? The very idea of labeling organic products is right, despite the rawness and imperfection of the law, but this does not solve the problems facing Ukrainian farmers today. The Radical Party's position, the maximum state support for farmers' movement, because agricultural experts, such as Dmitri Solmchuk, my countryman, have calculated that, as a result of the systematic government policy of small farming, which is the basis of organic production, the state receives over a million people who will make money in business. And it's a million people who will create more jobs, and it's a million people who will create even better infrastructure in their villages, with more opportunities. We offer a clear plan of state support for farmers. First. Introduce regional crop planning and production in rural communities to avoid depreciating the deficit of goods that could threaten the destruction of many farms as a result of the lack of public policy on this issue. The other one. The creation of a pool of farmers into small cooperatives that produce the same type of produce and a state support program for these cooperatives. Selling five tons of milk or a hundred tons of carrots is easier than 10 liters and 200 kilograms, respectively. Third, most importantly, to give farmers affordable loans from state banks, as in most European countries, seasonal repayments for purchase of Ukrainians, I stress that it is the Ukrainian tractors of 25 horsepower with trailers. At the same time, this will provide opportunities for the development of the Ukrainian mining industry, particularly for the Kharkiv Tractor Plant. Four. Allowing representatives of farmers’ communities to study abroad at exhibitions and forums so that they can see how they can properly supply the goods that must be packaged. Because the most promising thing for farm development is export. Fifth. Start public advertising with an invitation to purchase Ukrainian products. And so we also emphasize and demand, our team, Olega Láška, to review and adopt a bill prohibiting the use of palm oil in dairy. Because palm oil is disease and premature death, and the death of a Ukrainian village. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u45	Please, National Deputy Burbak Maxim, from the People's Front faction. Please, Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support this bill in the first reading, because that will open the way for us to discuss on the profile committee platform. And finally, to identify with the European principles of labelling and circulation of organic products. But I would like to turn to the responsibility of all of our deputies in this sessional room, we could look at this bill in the first reading on a simplified procedure and then discuss it, not on the rostrum. Because I think that some MPs will deliberately want to delay the process of addressing issues in the session room in order to break the budget process. The People's Front faction won't allow the adoption of the budget to be disrupted today's agenda. That's why I'm talking to everyone again, dear colleagues. There are a lot of bills, a lot of bills in the agenda for this session, we work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, all the factions that had been signed up for the discussion had the opportunity to speak. There's no one who's wanted among those factions who haven't been able to log in? Then I announce, Your Honor, you'll be sitting here, running the hall, and I'll specify in the other factions whether they signed up or not. I'm asking, please, the Opposition Block. Mr. Shurmi, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u48	Dear citizen of Ukraine! A bill on agrarian politics is now being tabled. It's very interesting to hear coalition representatives say that today there are destructive forces in Parliament that are trying to disrupt the budget process. So I'll tell you as a representative of the political power who didn't vote in favour of the shortened procedure. Since short-term voting leads to inadequacy bills, which we have seen, in particular, when we adopt a bill on so-called med reform, 6327, and we will once again adopt a bill on basic principles and requirements for organic production and labelling under reduced procedures, we will once again adopt an inadequacy bill. So to avoid such things, if you're looking at yourself in a reduced procedure, and all you want, I'm talking to those people who are trying, you know, running and adopting a number of bills, and you're not sitting in the dining rooms at work, and you're going to the meetings of the Supreme Council, you have a coalition of 226 people, and you vote. You vote as you think it is a coalition. And you don't go to meetings today, you sit in dining rooms, and then you say someone wants to block this process, you pour dirt on yourself. This, on the one hand, is a pleasure to us as opposition, and on the other hand, shows that you don't have a coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, we now have a record of speeches by national deputies under the Rules. I'm asking everyone who wants to join the national MPs in discussing the bill in the first reading to sign up right now. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party team offers a very clear plan to protect the interests of Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian farmers, and to rebuild the economy in the countryside. First, the issue of land ownership: the land must belong to those who cultivate it: Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian farmers. Our team has initiated changes to the Constitution, under which 180 fellow members of the people's deputies have signed, to amend article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine and to provide for the basis of the agricultural system of Ukraine is farming. We insist that these changes to the Constitution be considered in this Hall, so that we can permanently remove the issue of who owns the Ukrainian land. Accepting these changes will remove the possibility of looting Ukrainian land by transnational corporations, lattifundists who want to take the land to our peasants for free today. Second, it's a rural survey. Cases, thousands of cases across the country: Kirovogradstina, Dnipropetrovština, Poltavščina, Chernigovishtina – when they arrive, harvest, copy property, copy land. Our team has prepared an anti-rider bill that takes away the possibility of raiders taking their land from landowners, their property. We insist that this bill be immediately considered in the Parliamentary Hall. Third. The agricultural and raw congregation, which we propose to produce for every tonne of grain exported from Ukraine, exported more than 40 million tons of grain last year instead of exporting finished produce, while the villagers were hungry and unable to feed their families. We're going to propose the introduction of an agrarian-cheese congregation, which is going to be an additional billion euros per year, and it's going to be directed to animal subsidies, to the regeneration of cows in the village. Because it's a huge job, but without cows there will be no village. And fourthly, in order to make it profitable for our farmers to support our cows, we have registered and require the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Palm Oil in Milk Products. Because today Ukrainians instead of natural milk, instead of natural dairy products, consume inequitable poison, cheap palm oil. Producers are made by nonconformists who poison Ukrainians and kill Ukrainian cows, killing Ukrainian villages. Because there is no price for milk because of the consumption of palm oil. The adoption of this plan by the Radical Party will provide the opportunity to restore animal production, enable Ukrainian peasants to earn, and will forever answer the question: Who owns the Ukrainian land? Ukrainian land must belong to Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u51	The next speaker is national deputy Sergei Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, in fact, what does this bill offer us? Go to the store of any country that has joined the relevant European Union regulations and see how organic products are tagged there. And what are they offering us? You see, if 5 percent of the so-called organic products are chemical additives, they're any other, they're actually not allowed to label organic products, it's going to be an organic product, so imagine, 5 percent of the ingredients. If to add chemical ingredients enough 0.0001 thousandths or tens of thousandsths and we are offered - 5 percent is allowed. Well, what's the organic product? Show me at least one normative act of the European Union where it would be written: it's an organic product, but 4 percent is chemical additives, these are ingredients that are not even allowed to be branded by organic products. And you're saying we can fix this on a second reading? How could such a bill ever get into a session room? Well, how many can be covered by European norms and European standards in purely Lobby Bills? On the contrary, the European Union is so difficult to negotiate a free trade zone with the United States because they are in this free trade zone and in these negotiations stand for every point that protects the health of a citizen of the European Union. And we offer absolutely calmly up to 5 percent to increase the content of non-organic products. Today, I think the order of the day is completely wrong. If it's already an agrarian day, the first thing we should have started is to resolve the issue of continuing the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Secondly, we had to make it clear that emphytevise as an attempt to alienate land through leases is prohibited, and the relevant bills are. And thirdly, we had to decide and eventually transfer the land outside of the settlements to the united communities. It's something that's not right in the daytime, and there's a purely lobbyist bill that I've just analyzed. Our faction will not vote for such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Melniczuk, give me your word. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u54	I'm handing over Lithuania to Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u55	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin from the rostrum will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! I think it's obvious that the initiative proposed by the government is going to have zero results. It's just for a branch. Perhaps it was necessary to begin by asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to get an analysis of the state of the Ukrainian land, to whom and on what grounds did it belong, what happens to unquestioned holdings of more than 400,000? I think the ministry should tell you how it reacts to Ukraine being sown with rape, sunflower, corn, and the same cultures repeating the same thing every year. Now they're practically not talking about famous Ukrainian black people anymore, because they're gone. And the second problem. Let us make a decision that has long been prepared that land outside the inhabited area should belong to humans! What's going on? For example, the Novograd Wallinsky region. The head of administration secretly signs orders, conveys to a firm 49 years of age! This is what was installed. When the heads of the village councils are required to register a document a few thousand acres [5,000 ha] of land! There's no response to all of them. And this is the land of common property, the unspoiled pies of the people! And apparently, the head of administration has decided to make a "dembel chord" for 49 years! Consider, for example, the price of pie he set at 3 percent while on earth, at 7 percent. That is why I consider my speech to be a re-deputy address. And first, you deal with these questions, and then you take these initiatives, and then you have an absolute zero on the way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u57	Please, National Deputy Shinkovic, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! As I continue to speak to the previous national MP, I want to say that on the way out, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, there will be no zero, but there will be quality products that will go to Europe, and there will be an increase in trade balance, because that product that we are trying to export today unfortunately does not fit the standards that Europe, Canada and other countries are willing to buy. Dear friends, but today there are several questions that clearly need to be spoken and that have to do with Bill 5448. What will today stop the migration of productive labour from Ukraine to Europe and other countries? Processing of agricultural production. We can actually hear today when we're proud of tens of millions of tons of grain sold that we could recycle in Ukraine, have added value, taxes, jobs. Unfortunately, I have to say that I already dream of going to Europe after school to study and work in an electoral district in Hmelnickin. It's a disaster, a disaster that needs to be changed, starting with us in this room. The other one. What will help today to remanufactur the agricultural product? It's the right state regulation, it's our job with you, its result. And so, my friends, what's going to increase the currency in the country today? It's a quality product. So you don't have to look and talk about anything here using the rostrum. Yes, there is a need to allow outside of the population an opportunity to feed communities. That's true. But this particular bill is not just a reason to talk, it's our concrete step of national MPs to make the product that was exported organic to have the right quality. Those who do not want to produce quality organic products in Ukraine should have the courage to call them inorganic. So I urge you, my friends, to support 5448. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u59	Thank you. Last performance. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, because in three minutes there will be a vote in the first reading for the appropriate bill. Please, the national deputy of Halasyuk, to whom the word is given by his colleague Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u60	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, when we discuss such important issues as the development of the Ukrainian village and the agrarian sector, we have to start with the main issues: the major fundamental issues that set the model for the development of the country's agriculture. One of the main issues is ownership on the ground. Oleg Lazko pointed out from this rostrum that we have introduced draft amendments to the Constitution to 41 articles, 180 co-authors' deputies, in order to forever establish that farming is the foundation of the agricultural system of the country. That's exactly the way it works in neighbouring Poland. The result is the adoption of laws to enforce it, which allowed the Poles to do that they have one and a half million farmers who own land, who live on this earth and who produce 22 billion euros in goods. Imagine, only Polish farmers who own mostly about 10 hectares [10 ha] of land produce 22 billion euros. But it's a sum that's consistent with all of Ukraine's commodity exports to all of the countries of the world. Therefore, these changes to the Constitution need to be put to the point once and for all, giving the right direction to develop agriculture and rural development. The second is what model of the village we're building. If the continuation of today's oligarchic, feudal, agrarian and raw model of the village is a path to nowhere, it's a path to poverty and emigration. We're offering to move to a product model so that, unlike today, we can export grain, and then, somewhere in Poland, Belarus, Turkey, make flour, and then in Italy make spaghetti, and then these goods come to us on the shelf. But we ourselves are capable of producing ready-made products. So, first of all, supporting Ukrainian animalry, which has been reduced by eight times since 1990, is incredible. So immediately to implement an agrarian and raw collection, 3 percent of the special raw export tax will add more than 7 billion dollars to the special budget fund, that's from exporting grain, that's from exporting corn, that's from other raw materials. And give grants to peasants for every cow 4-5 thousand dollars. It's absolutely real, it'll rekindle the animal kingdom. And the third. This is to make a strategic wager for the food industry. In order for this to happen, industrial park legislation needs to be adopted, to provide normal tax conditions and incentives for us to have powerful agro-processing complexes, free networking (draft 6671), to remove barriers to industrial development and to transform the Ukrainian agrarian complex into a successful one, with high added value that gives the village affluence, not poverty as this one does today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u61	Thank you. Colleagues, we said this was the last performance, but Andrew Illenko insists. In principle, we had one minute left, we had no non-fractional speeches during the discussion of this important bill. Please, Mr. Andrey, three minutes. You'll be out of town? You'll be from the rostrum. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the session room. After Andrew Illenck's speech, we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u62	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, of course, we need to develop organic production, of course we need to do this, including, at the legislative level, but we now understand a few key things. First of all, in Ukraine today, it's an absolutely terrible situation with food quality, and we understand that this is the cause of disease, this is the cause of an early death, and we need to do something about it because very often today we just sell it in open-poison stores that poisons Ukrainians. And does this law solve this issue? Unfortunately for us, no, because there is nothing breakthrough, nothing fundamental about this law. In fact, it's not clear what these organic products are going to be different from inorganic products, there's not even a clear limit because there's a huge number of gaps in this law that need to be corrected. And most of all, what I wanted to say is that it's probably not even the main thing right now, and the main thing is that we're talking about the agarna issues, the Ukrainian village issues. Since January 1, 2018, a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land has been concluded. Today the Supreme Council has to decide to continue this moratorium, because otherwise we're going to have absolute chaos, starting on January 1st next year, and we need to completely, fundamentally address this issue. "Freedom" is proposed by our bill, which deals, in fact, with the issue of the land of agricultural destination, which we believe should not be in any way ordinary goods, it should be the property of the entire Ukrainian people. And if it can be sold, only the state land bank that we propose to create specifically for it can create a civil market for a long-term lease on agricultural land. And in today's situation, we have to solve the Moratorium issue, because since January 1st, this issue has not been resolved, and it can be the cause of huge problems in Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u63	Thank you. So the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I ask all fellow members of the national MPs to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Is there a need for a closing word? Victor Vasilovich Sheremet, is there a need for a closing word? Is there a need, Mr. Bakumenko? No, it's not. So please, we're taking jobs. The closing words will not be announced. And, colleagues, I would like to emphasize, the committee has suggested that we take the basis, just as a basis. There were a lot of warnings during the discussion, but I think they could be settled and they could be added to the bill during the first and second readings. And so I propose that we give the Committee of Agrarian Politics a chance to finalize the bill, take into account all the suggestions that were made in the hall, and support it in the first reading. I think this will be the right thing to do, and this will be the constructive position of the Ukrainian Parliament. So let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the bill on basic principles and requirements for organic production, circulation and labelling of organic products, number 5448, based on colleagues, just as a basis. And I propose to support the committee's position: between the first and the second readings we will work out and make all the warnings. Please vote and please support base 5448. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:24:33]] For 209 209. Turn on the factions, please. According to factions: 93 – "Block of Petra Poshenko", 62 – "National Front", "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 13, Radical Party – 15, "Fathership" – 0, "Will of the People" – 4, "Rebirth" – 10. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you to come back, I see most of the factions have backed up, and the question is just to get us mobilized. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Heads of factions, especially the factions that vote in favour, invite your deputies into the hall and take up jobs. So, are you ready to vote? Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products, 5448. Colleagues, carefully, each voice matters. Please vote, please support the return to consideration. Colleagues, every voice. Please support, please vote. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:26:06]] For 211 211. No votes. I'm going to put the next motion on the vote: return to the committee to prepare for the re-election. to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please mobilize, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill. Now I'm going to put to the vote the next sentence: return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Let's support this proposal so the committee can work on it. Colleagues. The same form of support. So, colleagues, I would like to support the proposal that the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, Circle and Labelling of Organic Products, number 5448, be sent to the Committee for Re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Let's give the committee a chance to work on it, colleagues. [[11:27:21]] For 228 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law on agrarian policy: food safety and hygiene (2845 and 2845-1). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[11:27:57]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Labazyuk Sergey Petrovich. And get ready, Kozachenko Leonid Petrovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u64	Dear Chairman, national deputies! Your attention, Bill 2845, on food safety and hygiene. Today, our country has signed an Association with the EU Agreement, which has assumed the responsibility to resolve all issues in order to remove any barriers to trade between Ukraine and the EU. Their overcoming is the adoption of legislation that provides the legal basis for the implementation of European production standards. The most complex is the adaptation of sanitary and phytosanitary measures to European standards in the area of meat production regulation, and requires Ukraine to implement the principle "from rope to table" in practice. Ukraine has already adopted a number of bills, namely a bill on principles and requirements for the safety and quality of food, on the identification of animals, on State control and safety in terms of the quality of food and food, which creates a legislative basis for exporting meat products to the EU. However, this is not enough, since in addition to controlling the safety of food products, proper control of the production of food products, namely animal products, must be exercised. In order to ensure proper control of food safety and hygiene, Bill 2845 has been drafted, which proposes to address the issue of production, export, import, use, transport and storage. At the same time, it is important that the bill regulates the relationship between food market operators. The adoption of the bill will allow conditions for the development of the feed market in Ukraine, which will, inter alia, contribute to the increase in the production of quality feeds and will allow for a reduction of the financial administrative burden on market operators. In this regard, colleagues, please support the Euro-Integration Bill No. 2845.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u65	Thank you. From the committee, I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Bakumenko Alexandr Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 30 June 2015, reviewed the bill on food safety and hygiene (registration No. 2845) and the alternative bill on feed (registration No. 2845-1). Both bills are aimed at harmonising Ukraine's legislation to the requirements of international legislation, including European Union legislation. These bills are also aimed at regulating food hygiene, empowering authorities in these areas, the rights and duties of market operators, and punishing market operators for violating food legislation. After reviewing the bill’s position, the agar committee decided to recommend a draft to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Food Safety and Hygiene Bill (Registration No. 2845) is to be adopted as a basis. In further development of the project (registration number 2845), use some of the provisions of the alternative bill (registration number 2845-1). I would like to use an alternative bill on the abolition of the national registration of feed as non-EU food and to introduce in Ukraine the State Register of Feed Additives on the basis of recognition of the EU Register of Feed Additives and the national registration of feed additives which have not been registered in the EU. It is also worth applying the position of section V, "Victims for Marking, Presentation and Facing, Packing Feeds", of an alternative bill that is not in Bill 2845. Given the above, please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill (registration number 2845) as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u67	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u68	with further development and consideration of some provisions of the alternative bill (registration number 2845-1). Thank you for your attention. This is our Euro-Integration Commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u69	Thank you. I would like to report that the author of the alternate bill, Kozachenko, has submitted a letter to the presidency that he will not be able to participate in the plenary session today and therefore requests that the bill be considered without his participation. So we can go straight to the discussion. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. Please. Please, John Krulko gives the floor to Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u70	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I understand that today is "what animals feed and what people feed." So if you analyze Bakumenko's second bill, Yvchenko, Kutov, it's slightly different from the previous bill that we've been looking at. You can imagine, for people, it turns out, there was an exception in the previous bill to 5 percent, which could have been used as genetically modified supplements. In this bill to the honor of authors, their bill differs from an alternative, clearly defined ban on the use of GMOs for feed, for animals. In addition, this bill, unlike the alternative, clearly establishes the order of use of laboratory research, including private laboratories, which will install it, and this is very important. And we support the key bill itself, which is the main one, because in an alternative weird way, it fell out. It's the third rule. The main bill foresees a two-year term, unlike a three-year transition to branding, which is unique when animal feed is used, which will then be reflected on food. That is why our faction supports the adoption of a key bill that was proposed by the basic committee, namely the Bakumenka, Yvchenka, Kutovo bill. And there's no way to vote for the second bill, where both GMOs are allowed, and there's no control over the use of the feed base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u71	Thank you. From Self-Help, Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna passes the word to Semensi Roman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u72	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Today, 107 Ukrainian food producers, including meat, birds, dairy, fish, and honey, have the right to export to the European Union. According to 16 years, exports of Ukrainian agrarian products increased by four and a half percent and accounted for nearly fifteen and a half billion dollars. Ukraine also shows high results in the export of top - oil. In eight months, we exported almost 2,000 tons to the European Union. For example, over the past year, about 741 tons. Today, our country embraces about 37 percent of the top - oil market in Ukraine. However, this success of our manufacturers can be slowed down or even disheartened by the inadequacy of European and Ukrainian legislation in the field of food control. Europeans keep an eye on the quality of food. And if our manufacturers can't prove the safety of production throughout the whole chain from rope to table, starting with the food and finishing with the final product, we can lose some of the consumer markets in Europe. Moreover, the non-admission of this law is the probability of the European Union blocking quotas for the export of animal products. What does the bill propose? First of all, it's high fines for breaking the rules. In some cases, even before the production capacity is closed. This law also deprives businesses that sell nonprofits at a lower price. Living up to new food quality standards will increase the investment attractiveness of the agricultural sector, expand markets, create additional consumer protection mechanisms against non-quality and sometimes dangerous products. The self-help faction will support both bills. In particular, the alternative automatically includes feed additives allowed in the European Union to the State Register of Ukraine, which reduces the bureaucratic component. It also contains principles for the labelling of feeds that do not have a basic bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, from the Rebirth Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u74	Today, we do not have legislation to regulate food safety and hygiene. And this question affects the export of agricultural products, including animal production, which is very important. Therefore, we must create conditions for the development of the feed market in Ukraine and bring our legislation into line with EU requirements. So I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support the basic bill -- 2845 -- on the basis that it is fully in line with the European Union's legislation and will reduce the financial and administrative burden on market operators. So I'm asking you to support this very bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u76	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine The advantages that are anchored both mainly in the bill and in the alternative to simplifying the registration procedure for certain types of feed will actually allow our animals to enter the export market of the European Union and the countries of the Middle East. And I think that both of these bills can be supported and contributed to the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u77	Thank you. Now from the Opposition Block, I'm going to give Natalia the Queen's word, but, I want to warn my colleagues, this is going to be the last closing statement that will be followed by the vote. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Mrs. Natalia, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, who are you going to adopt these bills for, please tell me, if only through your pension reform have you actually made it impossible to develop farming in Ukraine because you have introduced a number of rules that increase tax burden on farm workers? And today we think, first of all, we have to accept the moratorium on land sales and not allow the government to use IMF conditions and continue to advertise land sales and implement its pension reform, which in principle inhibits any development of agriculture and agriculture in Ukraine. Therefore, we demand that a bill first considered and adopted in this Hall, which refers to a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land for the following year and at least a five - year moratorium. And only then can we address the development of agriculture and organic production in our country in a comprehensive way. So the Opposition Block will not support any of these bills. And once again, first of all, it's the adoption of a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u79	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. We had a discussion, and in fact most of the factions in the discussion expressed their support for the bill. It is a bill that at the same time is our obligation to cooperate with the European Union. And so I ask everyone to vote responsibly. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. Ready to vote? So I'm voting on the draft Food Safety and Hygiene Act, originally 2845. The committee recommended that it be accepted as a basis. I'm going to be the first to put 2845 on the ground. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:42:55]] For 214 I'll put it back once, colleagues. But you will be invited to the National Assembly Hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please show by factions. We actually have the support of all factions. They just didn't mobilize enough. Colleagues, and come into the hall, and do not argue during the voting, but vote, be in your seats. So I'm asking you to take jobs. Now I'm going to go back to 2845, not 1, but 2845. So please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Feed Safety and Hygiene Act (2845). Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, every vote, every vote. [[11:44:15]] For 239. Decision taken. We're back. And now I'm putting the Food Safety and Hygiene Bill (2845) on the ground. Please vote and please support 2845 as a basis, we vote. [[11:44:42]] For 234 Decision taken. We move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the use of agricultural land (6049 and 6049-1). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, please support. Attention, colleagues, please support the reduced procedure. [[11:45:18]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Odarchenka, please. To prepare is Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u80	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Today, of course, laws would be in place to continue the moratorium on sales, to ban the sale of land for use because there are three sessional weeks left and, unfortunately, most in the Supreme Council, these laws do not consider and are very likely to be available for sale from the new year. "Paternality," realizing that society against was holding an initiative group to hold a referendum at the national initiative, but unfortunately, the President had blocked the referendum, realizing that a nationwide initiative would ban the sale of land for agriculture. Our bill, which we propose, now provides a mechanism for optimizing the land arrays of land use and disposal, so-called, pieces inside the land arrays by exchanging one or more land areas in other equivalent areas, which are located either on adjacent or in other land arrays and in other areas. Such an opportunity can be made by landowners to form a single array and then transfer it to a lease that will increase the lease. To create family farms or cooperatives, if the family has areas in different parts of the array or in different arrays, when moving from one inhabited location to another. Our bill foresees that only the landowner can make such an exchange. Our law does not violate the moratorium on the sale of land, an alternative law makes it possible, through the sub-landing rights, to exchange land for renters. This, in our view, is wrong and we propose to vote in favour of our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for an alternative bill (6049-1), please give the floor to the national deputy, Oleg Kulinić.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, today there is a huge problem in the agricultural sector, this is when one field is processed by two or more renters, and the number of singles is constantly increasing. That's why we have a chess problem in the fields, and you all know that, especially the majors. There is no legal disengagement mechanism to date, these processes are done by oral arrangements, and this all stimulates re-entry. What do we propose? First. We're predicting a mechanism for inventory of agricultural land, there's a lot of problems, there's areas that aren't cadastre, there's a dead inheritance, there's no demand for pies, there's fields, there's cadastre errors. We provide a clear mechanism for correcting these problems according to one piece of land-based documentation. The other one. The bill gives the right to a tenant who uses at least 75 per cent of the lease of other land areas of the same array to replace their owners with other equivalent land in the same array, I emphasize, within the same field. Third. The bill solves the obsolete problem of collective property land, and we have over a million hectares in our country, these are roads, forests, owners, they are all used in the shadows, and these are huge losses for local budgets. We provide the opportunity for the unscrupulous SPCs to mature by 2020, and if this is not done, the land will move to municipal property in court. The committee supported this very bill, but the copyright team is willing to consider all the positive things of the basic bill. I know that there are good jobs from the Self-Help faction, and we're willing to take them into account for many years of planting, to take them into account for the second reading in this bill. So, colleagues, I urge you to support this very bill because there is no other settlement mechanism that we have proposed for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u83	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Alexander Bakumenko. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u84	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, held on 11 July 2017, reviewed the projects of registration number 6049 and registration number 6049-1. In its consideration of the bill, the committee noted that the purpose of the bill was to create an effective mechanism for the use of agricultural land. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading of both bills, it is appropriate to revert to pre-productions that take into account the comments made. As a result of the discussion by the National Committee members of Ukraine, it was noted that the bill (registration number 6049-1) on the use of agricultural land was more complex than project 6049. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the use of agricultural land (registration number 6049) to be rejected. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to address the issue of collective property on land to improve land use rules in agricultural destinations, prevent logging and stimulate irrigation in Ukraine (registration number 6049-1) to be adopted as a basis. At the same time, the committee agreed that registration number 6049-1 should be included in the bill. These positions are agreed upon by the committee and will be included in the drafting of the bill, registration number 6049-1, for second reading. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u85	Let me finish, please, because the two bills are being submitted. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u86	I'm going to define a few things, like Bill 6042. Excluding the possibility of obtaining land from state or municipal property located in agricultural lands for leases on non-competition grounds. Make a clear distinction between the notions and legal status of land under the roads of the field between the land in the middle of the agricultural land supply and the roads in the field, which are restricted by the masses themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u87	Thank you for the committee's presentation. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, we are now joining the debate from the faction. And immediately two parliamentary bills: the main one and the alternative one. I'm asking you to register all the factions who want to express the faction's position on these bills. It's a reduced procedure, we voted 168 votes in favour. And now, please, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The biggest problem in the village is not just the lack of available loans for our farmer, and as a result we lose to our competitors because we don't have cheap loans and our peasants don't have state support. A minor problem in the countryside is that the authorities want to tear the land apart, and the raiders, using the support of power, come in at night or copy it in the registrars: the Poltavian land is taken and copied or rewrote by the Odessa or the Montenegrin registrars. The Radical Party team has proposed a bill that solves the problem of registration, so that, firstly, land leases will be notionally certified and only in the place where the notary, the registrar, where the land or property is located. We believe that this will remove the problem of raiding so that there will be no surprises when the farmer wakes up in the morning and turns out that the land or property is no longer his. The second huge problem is that former workers of the Soviets and agricultural enterprises of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences are obese people who have not been given land. Hundreds of thousands of villagers in Ukraine today do not have a piece of land — in one village there was a colporteur, land was incinerated, and in another village there was a councillor or a research station. The land of the state, the land was not broken. As I have in Borznian, in Chernigovishka, Mikolayevka village: the peasants have no land because it was a councilman. We also propose that we solve this problem so that the veterans of work, the workers who are currently working in research enterprises, at the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, can get their own pies and feed this land to Ukrainian peasants, and then divide the peasants into blacks, into whites, into landlesss, and into those who have pies. This injustice, which is in the country today, certainly needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction of Roman Semenich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u90	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! Indeed, today we have numerous examples of areas that may be owned by or undistributed by different owners, not only hindering the efficient conduct of agricultural business, but also creating conditions for raiding and other wrongdoings. As a result, some one million people today do not process or lease land. About a hundred thousand pies, some 400,000 acres [400,000 ha], remain unexploded, and about 17,000 acres [17,000 ha] of agricultural land continues to be collective property. So the issue of the consolidation of agricultural land is really very relevant. However, Bill 6049, which aims at optimizing land use and addressing the problems of land fragmentation, has a number of fundamental observations. In particular, first, it is the absence of a clearly prescribed mechanism for land exchange to optimize agricultural land supply. This can lead to numerous abuses by executive authorities and local self - government. The other one. The status of land that continues to reside in collective property remains uncertain, i.e. they do not actually have ownership and cannot be leased. And the third. Regrettably, beyond the scope of the bill, there are problems in the real representation of land in the middle of the State Land Cadastre. There was no part of the cadastre that was formed before cadastre information was introduced in electronic form. Therefore, an alternative Bill 6049-1 has been drafted to address all these shortcomings, which also provides an effective mechanism for the use of agricultural land for the purpose of preventing logging and addressing the problems of the use of collective property. The self-help faction supports the alternative bill 6049-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u91	Thank you. Royal Natalia. Royal Natalia, your address, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u92	Germany. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u93	Oh, Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the drafts that have been passed, I, as a representative of the Opposition Block, would like to state the following. First: Law 6049. It must be linked to the beginning of the corruption of the earth, which began on the basis of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma’s 1994 decree. To this day, people have not been given a mass certificate of property, and they do not have it. To this day, the mass phenomenon of the uncharted portions of the earth’s food in nature has not been isolated in nature. To this day, citizens of a total of 3 million people have not actually been given the right to manage and manage their land rations. There were millions of innocent lands here, 6 million of them today, land of agriculture. And this law, it's premature, because today we need to implement this law, and the Land Privatization Act, give people certificates, bring everything into the cadastre that we're talking about. Every fifth of the land's ownership of the land, every owner, and then it's essentially solved. As for the second law, I'm going to tell you that this is the preparation of legal land surveying when some organs are in place, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u95	Thank you. I'm not going to pass it to you because there's too little time left. And I, now the closing act, and I'm asking everyone. They haven't shown up yet, have they? All right, but I'm still asking everyone to come into the hall. So it looks like we're going to move five minutes later to making a decision than 12 hours. And I'm asking you now to speak to Sporis Ivan Dmitrovich. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u96	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable presidency, of course, we are currently considering a block of agricultural legislation. And so I would very much like us to accept them. First of all, we're looking at Bill 6049, 6049-1. Of course, both are flaws. And we do realize that even though we prefer Bill 6049-1, even in this bill, we also have the removal of the peasants of collective property. But first of all, the good thing about this bill is that we're here to prevent logging. But with regard to the block of agricultural legislation, especially auditing, this is question number one today. And we speak from this rostrum all the time. Unfortunately, we still have to go back to the bill, where we have to give the right to united territorial communities, to rural councils to manage the land outside the village. That's question number one. We know very well that the land is being taken from the peasants by the land. The last gardens near the village are shared, God knows who. Perhaps those who get land there don't even know this village, and they don't even know they're applying for it. So I would like to return to the issue of the right to manage the sessions of the united territorial communities, the village councils, to manage the land outside the agricultural assignment. So I think that both of these bills -- 6049-1 and 6049 -- we're going to put together for the second reading, we're going to do our best. And you can take it to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u97	Thank you. And now in a minute: Sergey Sobolev and Kulinich. And please, cut it out. Because we're gonna break up with the deputies, and we won't have a chance to accept anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, wake up! Do you know what Bill 6049-1 is about?Oh, my God! You're the owner of the land. And without your consent, the tenant has the right to transfer it to another tenant! Where are you going? How can the Constitution, the sacred right of private property, be violated?Oh, my God! And if you rent an apartment in the city and someone wanted to swap your apartment with someone, renter, and you imagine what you're doing in the first place?Oh, my God! The basic bill, prepared by Kirilenko and other national deputies, provides for a concentration of land only with the consent of the owner. And the second bill, which was so praised by the Self-Help faction and the BPT faction, allows it to be done without the right of the owner! Where are we going? Where is the Constitution of Ukraine? It's a counter-revolution in the country. You gave the land to people in private first, and now you want to take it away without her consent. The other one. As you may.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u99	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u100	How can the land be passed on without competitive grounds? What right do you have to change the Civil Code? And by 2020, in case someone didn't want to take this land? Read the Civil Code, which clearly defines how this is done. The second bill is a bill of raiding. So you can only vote for a basic bill without any of these numbers: 1, 2 and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u101	Thank you. So, colleagues, the closing statement is Kulinich. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. And I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I would advise you to read the bill carefully before you say such things. Today, there is no legal plane of consolidation in each field. We have a huge problem with chess. There's a lot of one person out there all the time. On one field, two or three renters. How can they be separated? There is no legal mechanism. That's what we're doing. This will all be on a contractual basis. And in no case will either side be affected. It's the only mechanism to solve this problem. As far as collective property is concerned. Today, one and a half million lands of collective property that are not owned by anyone. Large amounts of money are being lost to local budgets. What do we propose? It's also a forest farm, a field road, and you understand that very well, and what's happening to them now. By 2020, we're proposing that unscrupulous SPCs feed on such SPCs so that people get pies. And if that does not happen, it is only through a court of law that we prescribe.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u103	Please, 30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u104	We prescribe a clear mechanism for the transition of this land to municipal property so that we can fill local budgets. So, colleagues, the bill is hard, it's complicated, so I suggest, let's support in the first reading, which will support the majority, the alternative, and then work with you on the second reading and go out on a balanced, beautiful, quality bill. But this problem needs to be solved now and immediately, because it is a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u105	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please, everyone, take your seats. Colleagues, don't come out, then we'll go back, and they'll all be running around the hall. Take up your jobs now. Take up jobs, please. So I'm going to put in sequence the bills: 6049 first and 6049-1. I want to emphasize, after the committee's decision of 6049, to reject, the committee's decision of 6049-1 is to take the basis. But I'm actually going to put it in this sequence. I am therefore the first to vote on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the use of agricultural land (6049). Please vote. [[12:07:26]] For-65 65-yes. Now I'm putting 6049-1, which committee recommended that we take as a basis. I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on optimizing the use of land arrays (6049-1) as a basis. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. [[12:08:07]] For a hundred and 192. I'm going to make the following suggestion: that we return to the committee for a second reading. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, and support this proposal, the committee, this is a normal offer. Both. So I'm going to put a motion to the vote for both Bills, 6049 and 6049-1, to return to the committee for re-reading. Is that how it works? Let us vote, colleagues, to support this proposal: to the committee for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's just wait a second. All right, let's vote, let's vote. [[12:08:59]] For 225 One voice. So, colleagues, I'm putting the vote again, I see, but I had to move faster. I'm voting a motion to return 6049 and 6049-1 to the committee for a second reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[12:09:34]] For 230 Decision taken. Colleagues, I want to inform you that after the next bill, which is in order of the day session, and the committee, and the author asked him to remove it. And the next we have is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. This is an extremely important bill and the symbolic eve of Maidan's anniversary, comparing the Heroes of Heaven to the participants in battle. We'll go to him right after the break, so I'm asking you not to delay, but immediately after the break, to come to the hall. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And at 12:40, I ask everyone to come to the hall, and I ask everyone to be on time, because we're going to move on to an incredibly important bill, and after that, we're going to get into the agenda of the day session. So I'm calling it a break for 30 minutes. At 12:40, everyone please arrive in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u106	[[Unheard]] . and today we have the opportunity to grant them a status and respect for the Ukrainian State and to help their families, their children, who are being raised without parents today. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall, and I ask the heads of factions to invite the deputies into the hall. I announce the move to review the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (5697). And to the report, I invite the head of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, ATO Trelyaków Aleksandar Yuriovich, who has been very involved in the drafting and drafting of this law. Mr. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! Your point of view in the second reading is proposed in Bill 5697 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. I will briefly recall the essence of this bill. First. The members of the Dignity Revolution, who are included in the list of persons who have suffered bodily harm, are given the status of the injured member of the Dignity Revolution. Such individuals are given appropriate identification and benefits, and other social guarantees are provided, the same as for participants in hostilities. The other one. It is granted the right to establish the status of a war invalid to ATO participants who have become disabled as a result of a disease obtained during a direct participation in the ATO and to members of the families of such deceased persons as members of the deceased family. Today, only persons with disabilities are entitled to such a right because of injury, injury, or disability. Third. The status of a war invalid to civilians who have become disabled as a result of injuries from explosives and ammunition in Ukraine’s controlled area of the ATO and the collision line. Today, such people do not rightly receive disability due to general illness. And the fourth. According to the law, the term "Great Country War" is replaced by the term "World War II." The second reading of the bill received 25 rights, of which only 9 were rejected. Committee decision: recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 5697 as a law as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u108	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. And thank you for your work. I want to emphasize, as the committee head said, the right hand is not much. And that's why we're going to move very quickly to making a decision. I'm asking the heads of factions right now for the means of communication available to you to inform all the national MPs that in a few minutes we're going to move on to the decision-making process and invite the deputies into the hall. So we're going to talk about rights. 1st. Copy that. Third. Don't insist. Five o'clock, Thirdyak. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. The Roman Semenich insists. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u109	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, my right was to make sure that it was the people who gave their health in the war for independence who were not going to get involved in this bill, and in no way would the people who participated in the "anti-Maidan" who had made the situation shake up in 2013-2014. Thus, the amendment made it clear that the changes did not extend only to militia personnel, members of internal forces who had been harmed in the performance of their duties, but also to those who during the event of the Dignity Revolution prevented members of the Dignity Revolution from resisting the Yanukovic regime and expressing support for Eurointegration. Honestly, I don't understand the logic of the committee, so I would like to comment, because the rejection of the amendment poses a clear threat that the standards of the bill can also be extended to the participants in the "anti-Maidan." I feel that this is unacceptable, for we need to compare those who gave their health and life for the Dignity Revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u110	Thank you very much. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u111	I want to say that in the process of forming a list of persons who were injured during the Dignity Revolution, the Public Prosecutor’s Office is testing the failure of a person to do wrong because it is already in the previous laws, objectively all this is. It doesn't really make any sense. The D.A. checks, checks out a special commission will come back, the D.A.'s office, where people who beat up on Maidan are involved. Well, why just fill in the text with extra terms?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u112	Mr. Roman, do you insist on voting? He insists. Colleagues, please prepare. I'm putting to the vote number nine, National Deputy Roman Semenha. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. [[12:49:22]] For-76 The decision is not made. 10 lashes. The author does not insist. 14th. Don't insist. 20th. The author does not insist. Thus, the discussion of rights has been completed. Thank you, Mr. Alexander, for the report. And now I'm giving my word from the government, because actually the government was the initiator of the bill, the Provincial Alexander Vitaliyovich, three minutes. From the site or from the rostrum? Let's get out of here. Turn on the microphone, please, Alexander Vitaliovich. And come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u113	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantees of Their Social Protection (registration number 5697), the draft for second reading. In particular, the bill proposed to grant the status of a participant in hostilities to persons who participated in mass protests in Ukraine from 21 November 2013 to 21 February 2014 for Euro-integration and against the Yanukovich regime and for the implementation of the Act on the establishment of State aid to the victims of mass protests and members of their families, to include in the list of persons who received bodily harm, severe, medium-sized, light and medical aid in the period from 21 November 2013 to 30 April 2014. However, representatives of the affected members of the Dignity Revolution who represent the interests of the last in criminal conduct and court cases related to the events in Maidan and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine have been warned that the granting of the status of a participant in the hostilities to the injured members of the Humanitarian Revolution will have negative consequences in protecting the rights of the latter in the Ukrainian and international judicial institutions. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on War veterans, participants in hostilities, participants in an anti-terrorist operation and people with disabilities has been working with the bill to take into account the warnings of the victims of the Dignity Revolution and the Attorney General's Office, which excludes paragraph 1 from the text of the bill, which amended article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantee of Their Social Protection, to grant the status of a participant to persons who participated in the Dignity Revolution. The bill is also supplemented by paragraph 3, which proposes to supplement the Law with a new chapter to determine the status of injured members of the Dignity Revolution and to establish benefits and guarantees for their social protection. In addition, paragraph 4 of the bill is supplemented by a new part of the second on the issue to those affected by the Dignity Revolution. The draft text excludes paragraph 5 in connection with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees Social Protection for Family Allowances, without taking into account the average monthly total income of the family. Chapter III of the Final Bill is also supplemented by the provision for the provision of relief benefits and other social guarantees to the affected participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u114	Please give me one minute to finish. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u115	provided for in article 12 of the Act, pending the issuance of an appropriate certificate on the basis of information issued by the structural units of the social protection of the population of the district districts in the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol, state administrations. We also note that the bill proposes to amend paragraphs 11.14 of the second section of article 7 of the law, which will allow persons with disabilities to be included in the anti-terrorist operation, who have become persons with disabilities as a result of a disease that was directly involved in an anti-terrorist operation. It is also suggested that article 10, paragraph 1, of the law should be extended to the family of victims of an antiterrorist operation who died without news, died as a result of a disease that was directly involved in an antiterrorist operation. In view of the above, please support the bill that has been drafted by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u116	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, and in a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. I want to confirm in this case the words of the government representative. Indeed, in the first draft of the bill, we had some inaccuracies and discussions with the families of the Heroes of Heaven. I personally held a meeting, and we agreed that the bill would not be submitted to the Hall until it was approved by the families of the Celestial 100. After long work and after the cooperation of the profiling committee and the families of the Celestial 100, we found the optimal and correct formulation for the adoption of the law. And only after we received a letter from the families of the Heroes of the Heavens, this bill was put into the order of the day. But it's incredibly important that we don't drag him away so that we can accept him by November 21. I would like to point out, colleagues, that there is another equally important article in this law, which also makes the same view of the historical events of Ukraine and of the entire civilized world. This law replaces the definition of the Great Homeland War and war with imperialist Japan by the words of World War II. And this also aligns Ukrainian legislation with European Union legislation so that we have a general definition of World War II and an identical historical assessment. This is how we solve two issues in this law: one of historical character and the other of historical justice and respect for our heroes. And so, colleagues, I ask everyone to vote responsibly, to vote conscientiously. These are the days when we honor the memory of our heroes, our brothers, who rested in Maidan. So I am convinced that this will bring everyone together in the hall, and we will be able to make a positive decision. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. Please do not hold political debates during the adoption of this law, but be in the workplace and vote. And we're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, number 5697. The committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and in general. And so, dear colleagues, I ask everyone to support the draft Law of 5697 and to honor the memory of the Heroes of Heaven. Please be supportive. And please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote, vote. [[12:58:05]] For 214 We didn't make it, I see. The cards didn't work, they didn't make it. And I'll ask you to sit down and vote during the sitting! Because they tell us from the street how to love Ukraine. And when we honor the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, you walk in the hall! Please come into the hall and vote. Majdan, this is when we honor the memory of our heroes, not when we commend them. Please, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, come into the hall. Please turn on the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 93, People's Front – 55, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 17, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 6, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 4. Colleagues, we need to mobilize. Please, Mr. Ivan. So I'm betting, I see, they're coming in again, come in, please. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, number 5697. Please carefully vote and vote for the return. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:00:14]] For 233 And let's move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Jury, to be able to vote, this is an important bill, help Mr. Yuri to be able to vote. I'll wait, I'll wait a few seconds. Please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, 9No5697, second reading and generally. Please support me, please honor the memory of the Heroes of Heaven. Vote, colleagues, 5697 in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:01:14]] For 241 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. And now we're going to the inclusion section of the agenda. We have this chapter large enough, but all the questions in this chapter have been shown on the site, so I'm convinced that all the factions have been able to discuss these issues, to determine on them. Stay out of the hall, colleagues. Go back to the hall. It's a shame to work for a few minutes and there's no way. So I'm going to put in one bill and I'm going to ask the hall to identify itself. The first proposed is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities to establish a disability group for participants in the ATO (No.7161). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Vote. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. [[13:02:42]] For 199 The decision is not made. Next: a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure that the rights of participants in criminal proceedings and other persons are respected by law enforcement authorities in the course of a pretrial investigation. It's an anti-rider bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u117	Mask-show stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u118	As the minister says, " Mask-show, stop!".. And that's why I'm asking everyone to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleagues. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support the 7275 inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:03:48]] For 223 Three votes. I'll do it again, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize and take up jobs. The Minister of Justice came specifically to support this law. We're not going to discuss it, colleagues. We're going to vote. And that's why I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. This bill provides the opportunity for a full - time job to be done by entrepreneurs. And I'm asking everyone to support it just by putting it into the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Every vote matters, please vote carefully. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. For the day-to-day session and weekly agenda. [[13:04:39]] For 222 222. More votes are missing. Okay. Then we'll come back. Again. We didn't make it. All right, I'll put it up again, colleagues. Only I'm asking you to be quick about it. Attention! Take up your jobs and invite your deputies into the hall. I'm putting in the agenda of the 7275 session, please support, please vote, the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the weekly agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. We vote, every vote. Please support me. [[13:05:23]] For 231 Decision taken. Copy that. Somehow it's very hard going, fellows, let's get together. Colleagues, please remain seated. Next question. Stay out of the hall, colleagues. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption has proper access to information necessary for the implementation of its powers (7276). Please, colleagues, get ready. Please support, please vote, 7276, inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[13:06:29]] For 201 Colleagues, alternative bills will be able to register, we've only just included in the agenda of the day session, and the alternative bills will stand on the table as it has always been, colleagues, as it has always been. Therefore, your fears are unfounded and your efforts to balance are unfounded. Alternatives you can register, and they will be considered along with the basic law. And, colleagues, once again, I'm going to put it to a vote of 7276. This is important for our international partners, colleagues, this bill. And I'm asking everyone to vote, and don't come out of the hall, but come in. And I'm making a proposal: draft Law 7276 to put the day session in order. Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:07:45]] For-188. The decision is not made. Next draft of the Act: Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of the right of the child to due maintenance by improving the order of compulsory debt from alimony (7277). An important social bill. Colleagues, I hope there'll be joint support in the hall, it's about hundreds of thousands of our children who need safeguards to protect the payment of alimony. And that's why I'm asking, colleagues, under this bill, to unite everyone, to put it in the agenda, and I think there's going to be a common position for the entire Parliament. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. [[13:08:57]] For 241 And how do you see us looking at it this week? Let's not drag it away, colleagues. If there's a general agreement for us to consider it at this sessional week, okay, colleagues? Has he been studied, prepared? The pro committee, let's make it Thursday, and we'll look at it on Thursday. Please encourage us to consider it on Thursday, or this week. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. Please vote in favour. [[13:09:39]] For 222 My colleagues, once again, I see they haven't made it. Who for us to include him not only in the sessional order, but in the weekly agenda, please vote, please support. The inclusion of 7277 in the weekly schedule of the day session so that we can consider it on Thursday. I would like to stress that if they were alternatives, we would also consider them. Please vote, please support inclusion in the agenda of the week. Please support me, colleagues, please vote. Every voice, we vote carefully, please support. Please vote! [[13:10:24]] For 239. 239 — yes. Decision taken. On Thursday, I'll put it in the order of the day session. He's asking the Minister very much for one minute. I can give you after the end, we don't discuss when you're included in the agenda, when you're done, I'll give you a minute out of respect for your presence in the hall. Next: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to simplify the judicial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (7279). It is proposed to include in the agenda of the day session. Please support, please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[13:11:21]] For 209 209. I'll put it again, but if there are no votes, it's too much. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs, please show the factions the last bill, by factions. Let me put it again, I'm looking, in fact, all the factions support, just have to have a higher level of mobilization. So I'm re-proposing 7279 to get into the agenda of the day session. Please. Colleagues, come into the hall, please. Please vote, please support. Vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[13:12:19]] For 205 205. No, it's not a question of discipline, it's a question of support in the hall. Next draft of the Act: on certain features of the implementation of the General Target Program, the Ukrainian space science and technology programme in 2018, number 735. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We'll support the Ukrainian space program. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[13:13:06]] For 219 A few votes are not enough, and so I'm going to put again, colleagues, but I'm asking MPs to be on the job during the vote, not on the floor. Please take your seats, we'll go to the vote. So, colleagues, I ask you once again to vote and support the inclusion of the daily session of the draft Law on certain features of the implementation of the National Space Science and Technology Programme of Ukraine in 2018. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:14:06]] For 229 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act: Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2017 (for the provision of military personnel with housing). Colleagues, a bill that provides for the housing of military personnel. And I ask everyone to unite, vote, and support him. Please, colleagues, vote for inclusion in the agenda of the 7125 session. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Provision of accommodation for military personnel [[13:15:05]] For 247 Decision taken. Colleagues, do not leave the hall, please, during the daytime session. I ask those who have just left the hall to come to the hall. I ask the National Deputies to leave the government's bed and take up jobs. Colleagues, the next is the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Law on Amendments to the Customs Code and. (No. 7280). I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote, please. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[13:16:02]] For 214 A few votes. I'll do it again, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall again, take jobs. So, colleagues, I'm putting in the agenda of the day session -- only the inclusion in the agenda of the day session -- 7280. Everyone, please don't leave the hall! All right, everybody, please stand by. Vote, colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. It's just an inclusion. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. We supported all the bills that were in the order of the day session when we formed the agenda. [[13:16:54]] For 226 Decision taken. The following, 7274, is a draft of the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2018. This bill is to be adopted by the following year because we are formulating and defining holidays in 2018. And I hope everyone supports this bill. I ask you to vote and please support the inclusion of 7274 in the agenda of the session. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:17:46]] For 223 I'll do it again. My colleagues may be wrong, but there's no political element here, there's a desire to organize all the holidays in 2018. So I'm asking you to mobilize, take up jobs, I'm asking a colleague from the government bed to take up jobs and support the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation 7274. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please vote. [[13:18:40]] For 232 Decisions were made. Next draft of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on increasing liability for individual traffic offences (7286). I'm asking you to support everyone, considering the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u119	He was registered this morning by his colleagues. But he's in no conflict, that's a proposition, that's Cosmiakin's offer, that's a committee of Cosmiakin's. You want to talk about it? Good, because it wasn't in the table, please, Easy. One minute. Okay. But we're going to lose people in the hall easy. Don't leave the hall, please don't leave the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u120	Easy, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I ask you to put into order the daily Bill 7206, which is called: Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians. This bill we've been trying to register for a month, it's finally registered, it's going to be on the budget today. If we want to have a full budget, and Ukrainians have jobs and wages, we need to create conditions for national production, support. If goods are produced in Ukraine by Ukrainian raw materials, then this national producer should have the advantage of tendering procedures during the purchase of the budget. So I'd like to put it in the order of day 7206. Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians - that's how the economic policy of the state should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u121	Thank you. So, colleagues, Burbak, one minute. And we vote because people will split up. Please come into the hall. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill, which was presented last Sunday at a government meeting. Its developer is the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which in the legislature provides for the photo and video fixation of the offences that are currently taking place on our highways. You all know that this is a catastrophic situation: every day people die, every day there are numerous violations of traffic rules. And you know that road safety is in a catastrophic situation. So we have to make changes to the legislation and predict the massive installation of video surveillance cameras to track security on our highways. This will also help to ensure public security. So I ask you to put it to a vote and I call on the entire room to support it. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u123	Thank you. So, colleagues, once again, this bill was not listed, since it was registered, if I'm not mistaken, yesterday after lunch or this morning. But there's no political subtext here, it's just a suggestion that we sort out the responsibility for road safety offences. And I ask you to support its inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:22:13]] For-188. The decision is not made. And the last proposal announced by the Radical Party is to include 7206, in the agenda of the daily session "Buy Ukrainian". Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 7206 session. Please vote. [[13:22:45]] For 210 I'll do it again, not all of them. Please take up jobs. I'll put it in, don't make any noise, don't shout, there won't be any money. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the day-to-day session of Bill 7206, "Buy Ukrainian," so it's called. And I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[13:23:32]] For 228 Decision taken. Colleagues, they insist. Look, the first law, there haven't been enough people yet. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act on the establishment of a disability group for participants in the ATO. I ask you, colleagues, once again to support its inclusion in the agenda of the session. I'm asking you to take up jobs and support me. There's no politics here either. I ask you to vote and support. Then please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 7161st day session. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and I'm asking you to vote. Please vote and please support. We vote in the agenda of the day session, we vote, colleagues. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:24:40]] For 224 Two votes, two votes. Colleagues, please return to your seats, colleagues. Two votes. I'll put it again, but you take the jobs. No, we'll talk and we'll lose people. We need a result, not a performance. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 7161 session. I'm asking you very carefully, we're down to two votes. Please support and please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Every voice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:25:28]] For 239. Decision taken. Colleagues, video fixation, again video fixation. Look, colleagues, listen to me carefully, I just don't want to start a discussion, because it's gonna take a long time. But this Bill of Law 7286 deals with road videotaping, which is one of the most effective means of maintaining discipline on the roads so that there are no violations. This bill has no political subtext, it's just aimed at reducing the number of infringements on roads, and this is especially relevant in recent times when we see an increase in traffic traffic on Ukrainian roads. That's 7286. Yes, there's a problem that he wasn't predicted and recorded yesterday, he was registered this morning, but I think there's no discussion here and we need to support him. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. I'll read his name again. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing liability for individual traffic security offences. It's actually about video fixation on the road. So I ask you to support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, colleagues. Please support and please vote. Please support and please vote. Vote, fellows! Let's support the video fixation. Please be supportive. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[13:27:18]] For 201 201. Too many votes, colleagues. The next question is the repeal of the bill. It was an inclusion. Colleagues, I'm going to set up any other stage, 26 votes are not enough, that's too much, we're not going to have a discussion. Next. This is an exception to the day - to - day session of the draft Anticorruption Courts Act (6011). Let me remind you of the story. The Venice Commission, for which I have submitted anti-corruption two bills, has proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the deputies to withdraw this bill, to remove it from the agenda of the day session so that the President of Ukraine can introduce a new bill. The President of Ukraine addressed me as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a request to withdraw him from the agenda of the session, draft Law 6011 on Anti-Corruption Courts. And I hope we can support him now and rule out the agenda of the session. And I'm voting on the proposal to exclude from the agenda the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act (No. 6011). Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, 6011 exceptions to the agenda. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[13:28:59]] For-144 144-for, colleagues. We finished this block. My colleagues, we have a very difficult atmosphere in this room. Look, me. Fellows, let me ask you one thing, we're a little late in the daytime, and our next law is incredibly important, it's a draft of the Law on Access and Quality of Medical Services. But I would like before we go to his consideration so that we can conduct a rating vote to support this bill, so that we don't put it at risk and put it to rest. Is there any backup? The committee, does it support? The President's representative, does he support this position? Supports. So I'm going to put a rating vote first, if there's support for this bill in the hall before I go over. I ask everyone to return to the hall. So I'm putting to a rating vote the question of supporting the draft Law on Access and Quality of Rural Health Care (7117) is rural medicine, this is a question that we unanimously supported in the first reading. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please. Who's to go to his consideration, the rating vote. [[13:30:34]] For 215 Are you saying we're moving? Irina, are we crossing or not? So, colleagues, it was a rating vote. So, colleagues, we're going into the bill, and the only thing is, we've seen that we're not going to be able to look at it in the next hour. Mrs. Irina, colleagues, look. Attention, attention in the hall! We have two bills that are incredibly short and what if we looked at them and then went into rural medicine. Olya, what do you say, head of the committee? Colleagues, we have two laws that are supported by all factions, short. What, Olya? Counsel me, please come to me, Mrs. Ola. We have the Law on Rural Medicine in the Block, which we can't get to lunch and we have two laws on psychiatric care, they're short, they're incredibly short. Colleagues, there is general support for all factions, so two bills of short, psychiatric aid, and then rural medicine. Is it accepted? Irina Lucenko, plus? Talk to me. Ira, two psychiatric aids, and then rural medicine -- supported? Two psychiatric care, and then rural medicine -- supported? Supported. Let's move on, they're in order the next day, we're not jumping anything, we're walking straight through the Rules. And I'm considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. This is the second reading, there are only three revisions. And I invite you to report to the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna. Please, Mrs. Ola, be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, the Health Committee, prepared for the second reading of the two bills that actually go together: 1242 and 4449. These bills allow both the system of psychiatric care that existed in the Soviet Union, which was actually the perfect thing to do today, to make it democratic, to make it something that would not be ashamed of. Bill 1242 was adopted by the Supreme Council on 5 October 2016. The purpose of this bill is to harmonize the rules of criminal and procedural legislation and health legislation in part of the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u125	Colleagues, do not leave the hall, please return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u126	precautionary measures are taken against a person for whom medical measures are intended or have been taken. What actually makes it possible to do this bill? It provides an opportunity to provide care for caregivers, close relatives, and family members with compulsory medical care. It provides an opportunity for a person who is expected to take enforcement measures or who is determined to apply them, to be able to take precautions such as mental - health care in conditions that exclude his or her dangerous behavior. The precautionary measures provided for in this article are also applied by the court to a person when a mental disorder or mental illness is established. The bill proposes to complement paragraph 6 of the legislative framework with a provision that defines the right of a person to take a precautionary approach to conducting an independent medical expertise that has not been carried out before. This bill proposes that the second pillar of the ninth foundation be completed. the basis for a list of cases involving the possibility of restricting the rights of citizens associated with their health, the standard for the application of precautionary measures to a person for whom compulsory measures of a medical nature are envisaged. In view of the fact that Bill 1242 was prepared for the second reading of Bill 4449, which provided for the introduction of complex amendments to the Law on Psychiatric Assistance in Ukraine, the 1242 bill excluded the amendments proposed in the first reading edition of the Law on Psychiatric Assistance and related to the organization's provision of psychiatric care in the application of precautionary measures. These changes are included in article 19 of Bill No. 4449. That is why all the amendments concerning all these changes have been rejected by the committee. The bill is initiated by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council without any notice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u127	Finish up, please. As long as it takes, talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u128	Please support the committee's proposal to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u129	My friend, there's actually no amendment here. I ask the heads of factions to return those deputies who have just left the hall. We're about to move on to the decision-making process, please, these are very short drafts, I'm asking everyone to come back to the room. So it's an amendment. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. So we're done here and we're moving on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, I ask the factions to return the deputies to the hall. We're going to make a decision, not leave the hall, but go into the hall. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, number 1242, on the proposal of a second-reading committee and in general. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:37:59]] For 211 No, they didn't, they just didn't come into the hall. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I'll be back. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please enter the hall and take your seats. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 1242. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please support, we vote. [[13:39:11]] For 218. We'll wait. So you're explaining to me why Parliament should be ashamed of me? But I warned you, don't leave the hall, there will be an important vote. A man of 40 came out of the hall during the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting on Bill 1242. I ask everyone to vote carefully, every vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote back to 1242. Colleagues, please vote, please support. We vote carefully each voice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:40:38]] For 236 We're back. I now put to the vote draft Law 1242 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues – carefully, each voice – in the second reading and in the whole 1242. We're voting in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:41:06]] For 242 Decision taken. Colleagues, don't leave the hall, the next bill doesn't actually have rights either. I'm asking you to brief me briefly, head of the committee. This is draft Law 4449. Please, Mrs. Ola, a brief report. And stay in the workplace, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, Bill 4449, which allows us to finally organize legislation and make our country transparent, democratic, and Ukrainian citizens stop winning cases in international courts against Ukraine. Bill 4449 allows the psychiatric services to be translated into international protocols and an international democratic attitude, a professional attitude towards the mentally ill. Psychiatric services are deprived of the penal function of the Soviet Union. The bill has been amended, and I'm going to give them a voice. And I'm asking you to support this bill with the rights that will now be issued. That is, in the changes proposed in article 1, the term “psychiatric assistance” is worded in the following wording: “psychiatric care is a set of special measures aimed at limiting the mental health of persons on the grounds and in the order provided for by this law, and other laws of Ukraine, prevention, diagnosis of mental disorders, treatment, supervision, care, medical and psychological rehabilitation of persons suffering from mental disorders, including through the use of psychoactive substances”. The next amendment to article 8, paragraph 7, of section I. In article 8, the first sentence of part three after the words "medical workers" should be supplemented by the words "or parents, in parentheses, one parent, close parentheses, husband, braces, wife, independent of the age of a person in need of psychiatric help. Next. Subparagraph 8 of the section, section I of the bill, should be left in the first reading, discarding the corresponding amendments 28, 29 and 30. To supplement section III, paragraph 2, of the bill, to the end of a new paragraph of the bill: to ensure, by the day of the introduction of the bill, the development of a central body of executive power that ensures the formation of public health policy and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to approve the order of interaction in the organization of psychiatric care for persons suffering from mental illness, including through the use of psychoactive substances. Please support this bill, which is being drafted by the General Legal Authority. Support me. And it is supported by the Health Committee, taking into account the rights I have read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u131	Thank you. Fellows, there's only going to be one amendment. This means that in two minutes we will move on to making a decision. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. We're starting a discussion. And I invite you to the word of Irina Sisoyenko. Turn it on. Please use the sound recorder. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, this bill is extremely important to our nation. Many citizens of our nation are winning and restoring their rights in the European Court of Human Rights. And this is unacceptable, because it is with the state that disputes are happening internationally. And this is only because our legislation is imperfect and continues to contain the standards of the Soviet Union. So it's this bill that we're finally changing these laws and restoring the rights of mentally ill people. We create new conditions for their maintenance, to provide them with medical care. In fact, the implementation of European standards for the protection of human rights, for the protection of the rights of mentally ill persons, is the essence and content of the bill. I ask everyone to support this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u133	Don't you insist on voting? What's the readout? For what correction did they hear the news? — Matthew 24: 45 - 47. No, yes. All right, colleagues. So we can move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Ready to make a decision? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on psychiatric care, number 4449, second reading, and generally. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please support the committee. Vote, please. [[13:46:37]] For 231 The law is passed. Thank you, Mrs. Ola, for the thorough work of the committee, for the report. And we move on, as we have decided in the rating vote, to the next draft of the Law on Rural Medicine. So let's go to the draft Law on Enhancing Accessibility and Quality of Rural Health Services 7117. He's got more lines. We're obviously not going to be able to look at it by lunch. Then we'll start by lunch, and then we'll finish after lunch. And I invite you to report on the draft Law on Enhancing Accessibility and Quality of Health Care in Rural Region 7117 to the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! The Health Committee has prepared for second reading Bill 7117 on improving accessibility and quality of health care in rural areas. I think each of you knows that more than 30 percent of the population of Ukraine live in rural areas. By comparing the quality and availability of health care in rural areas and cities, it is totally incomparable. Today, people living in villages have much less access to quality, quality, and timely medical care. Of course, in the future we need to make sure that we have reverse urbanization processes. When the people of the cities go to the villages. And as soon as we can provide quality, professional, and affordable medical care for the peasants, save their lives and health, the state will finally hear, people will finally feel national care. We're going to reduce the death rate from cardiovascular disease, from oncology. This law, developed by the President of Ukraine, proposes to increase the availability and quality of primary health care services in rural areas, to provide professional advice to a specialist doctor at a place of residence with telemedicine. Using the Internet and high-tech technology will allow Ukraine to take a huge leap forward into the future when, using digital technologies and electrocardiograms and conventional analyses, they can transmit remotely. And every peasant, without moving out of his neighborhood, will be able to get through the latest technology of consulting a professor who will be in the district center. The bill proposes the establishment of health facilities with the necessary equipment and medical equipment to provide primary medical care. This bill proposes the creation of proper infrastructure in the countryside. There were 125 amendments to the bill, including editorial and partial 69 amendments, and 56 amendments were rejected. The amendments proposed by the committee are proposed to extend the bill to cities of regional importance, not only to rural areas. Because Ukraine has 264 cities of district importance, which are small and do not have sufficient financial resources to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u135	Thank you. Let's move on to the amendments. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that there are our colleagues from the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova and our colleagues in the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the balcony, where the guest balcony is located. Let's welcome them, please. It's good to see you. [[Applause]] And Mrs. Ola asks the same thing. Thank you for your cooperation, and hopefully we'll have a good January session, because we have a lot of work to do in January. And now I'm giving Mrs. Ollie a minute to finish her speech and then we'll go to the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u136	Thank you. I'd like to speak to our Moldovan colleagues. We very much hope to take advantage of your experience in the introduction of compulsory health insurance and we are pleased to cooperate with your parliamentary committee on health care, and thank you for your support. And now I'm coming back.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u137	Please, please, you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u138	Now for a minute, please. Dear colleagues, the bill suggests that the Health Committee should adopt and support the bill because it is extremely important. And I hope that by the following year, people living in rural areas, in small populations, in small circuit centers will be able to experience real changes in quality, accessibility, and professionalism. This bill draws us closer to the people of the countryside, bringing us closer to helping everyone. And I very much hope that he will make his results very quickly. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we're moving on to the amendments and we're moving on to the revisions. 1st, Mrs. Sisoyenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, it's very good that there's finally an initiative to be built in villages, remote locations, appropriate medical facilities and equipped with medical equipment. But I want to point out that every one of us, every patient of our state, is being treated not by walls, not just by medical equipment, but primarily by people who work in these medical facilities. So the state has to fight for every doctor, every nurse. And I would like the President to present the bill right now, which we are discussing to the President as well, and the government has supported the Self-Help faction's initiative to cover the salaries of health workers in 2017, a debt of 3.5 billion dollars. And so to support our 4 billion dollar initiative, which should be added to the state budget exclusively for the pay fund for health workers. Please put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u141	Please put to the vote Amendment number one, Mrs. Sisoyenko. I'm asking you to identify yourself. The committee turned her down. [[13:54:22]] For-90 90 votes. Not supported. The next one is the 6th amendment. Mrs. Sisoyenko, do you insist? Please, Mrs. Sisoyenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u142	Back to providing affordable and quality medical care in rural areas, it is necessary to create adequate conditions for health workers. Last week, we all saw the situation in Smila because the city authorities refused to support and finance the medical section 14 in Smila. And tomorrow at a government meeting, we expect the Prime Minister of Ukraine to keep his promise and that what will be resolved by the government and the state budget will be financed by this medical facility because 11 months of medical personnel in this hospital will finally receive their salary, to which they are entitled under the law. The main thing, though, is not only the adoption of good laws in this room but also the implementation of these laws and the thinking, first and foremost, of health - care workers who will ensure that medical care is available.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u143	Vote 6 of the amendment that the committee rejected. [[13:55:51]] For-86 86 votes. Not supported. The next amendment is 9th. Mrs. Sisoyenko, are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Next amendment to the 12th. Semenha. Are you insisting? Don't insist. I can't really see you from here, so if I don't see you, don't be offended. 19th. You insist. Please turn on the microphone. 19 is Semenhe!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u144	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the bill includes two proposals aimed at preventing potential corruption risks in the implementation of this project. First, the bill foresees that measures to improve accessibility and quality of rural health care are carried out not only by public authorities and local self-government but also by other subjects. The list of such subjects has not been determined, but other articles of the project suggest that it is possible for private entrepreneurs and individuals to be involved in financing such measures. I would like to make it clear that such subjects are taking part in measures to improve accessibility and the quality of medical care exclusively on a voluntary basis. I am convinced that this will be a guarantee against possible abuses by unscrupulous representatives of public authorities. Secondly, I propose to provide order and time frame for the publication of information on measures taken by other entities than public authorities in order to increase transparency, as a result, for possible abuses by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u145	Thank you. We vote, please, the 19th Amendment of Seminya, which was rejected by the committee. [[13:57:29]] For-82 Not supported. The nation’s deputy Musai insists on 15 amendments. This is the Sissyenne amendment that the committee has supported. Please, it's Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u146	This amendment is taken into account, and I want to put it on confirmation so that we can vote. As for the bill itself, of course, we have to understand that this is a generally good bill on nothing unless the funds under this bill are voted. But I also want to warn the people's deputies that the money they spend on rural medicine is actually going to develop the Internet. You know that 80 percent of rural health institutions have no water supply, no toilets, no basic conditions, not provided by 40 percent of health workers, and we want to spend the Internet. Well, people are good, let's take this more seriously. And when we vote on the state budget, we actually predict infrastructure development, not the Internet. But this bill, I believe, is needed. In addition, with regard to this specific rule of law. This is regulated by other legislative acts. We cannot apply every law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u147	I see. Dear colleagues, so the amendment number 15 that the committee took into account is Sisoyenko's amendment. The National MP Musai demands that it be submitted for confirmation, and the head of the committee is asked to comment. Please, Mrs. Ola, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u148	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, I want to respond to your suggestions immediately. They are already accounted for because the funds already allocated are not just for the use of the Internet. Although young people will go to the village when new technologies are in place to solve the problem, there will be no problems. But the construction, the construction, and the communication, not the Internet, is planned for 6 billion dollars. They're going to be assigned to build new LCGs. Medical equipment is 3 billion 225 million. A zero. 560 million on the Internet alone. So the money is set up, and the financial security is going to be exactly the painful moments that you're talking about, it's going to be extremely important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-11-14-m0.u149	After this explanation, do you insist on voting? You insist. Mr. Musai insists on voting. Please support, vote on this amendment supported by the committee. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:00:27]] For-98 98 votes, not supported. Let's move on. 20th Amendment, Semimenach insists? Yeah, it's totally fair. Dear colleagues, second hour, everyone has a break right now. I'm calling a break until 4:00. We're moving at 16 as amended, not many of them, I'm asking all my colleagues to be 16. From the 20th, from yours, from Semenah we will begin with Amendment 20, Mr. Semimenah. I'll call it a break by 4:00. Thank you, colleagues, for a fruitful morning.
