ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the registration for the evening session. Let's get started. We'll take more laws. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. And please register for the evening session, please. [[16:05:20]] 357 is for, it's just a win. And they say MPs don't walk. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Two factions came in for a break by noon. I've already told you that I haven't been able to make a speech before lunch. Two factions are ready to replace the break with three minutes. And I'd like to invite Irina Sisoyenko to the presentation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, this morning, perhaps for the first time in Ukraine, medical personnel from all over Ukraine stepped under the government walls to protest. Probably for the first time, it's medical, it's this category of medical personnel that never goes into action that never does anything to leave their jobs, leave, leave the operating rooms, and go demand something from the state. But right now, people are forced to come under government walls and fight, fight for wages. The problem of the lack of funds to pay medical workers still exists in all areas of Ukraine. So today, health - care workers, health - care workers in the district, city hospitals in the Kyiv region, the city of Zitomira, and other cities in Ukraine have come under the walls of the government. On the issue of the lack of funds in the medical subsidy, it was for medical workers that I emphasized from this parliamentary rostrum in February. At a time when the government began to adopt and change to the State budget, when the minimum wage was increased to 3,200, it became a disaster for medical workers. Why did this happen? Because by increasing the minimum wage to 3,200, medical tariffs were not increased. So the first medical tariff rate rate was 1,600 dollars. This led to nearly the same salary being paid today by an emergency doctor, an ambulance, a cleaning lady, a nurse, and a guard. And the so - called comparison today leads to medical workers being released from state hospitals and going to work or not at all, or forced to work in private medical institutions. Some health - care workers travel abroad at all. I know a lot of nurses who have been released from the emergency wards, the children's wards, and they go to wash the floor in commercial banking just because there's almost twice as much wages. And I think it's just a disgrace to our state. Speaking of the state's government taking care of citizens of the state, at the same time all the conditions are created that when a patient comes to a medical facility, goes to a hospital, there will simply not be a good number of qualified doctors, there will simply be no nurses who can help. So what are we doing? That's why I want to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine again today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u4	to transmit 5,000 signatures of medical personnel from all over Ukraine, to transmit the Resolution of today's medical campaign, and to stress the need for changes in Ukraine's state budget to increase the pay-for-work fund, the medical subsidy to 3 billion dollars, and to increase medical tariff levels. We need to understand that the patient is not being treated by an official, not by an MP, but by a medic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u5	Ira, please finish, 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u6	Only a medical doctor can provide medical assistance to people who go to the hospital. So it's our job to create the right conditions for medical workers to work. And in the form of medical reform, it is the medical community that must become partners and allies of all the changes that the government is making in terms of health change.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u7	Thank you very much. Colleagues, let's get to work. I want to inform you that there will be Law 4541 in the second reading. It's short, it's short, and then it's a block of environmental policy. And I am very much asking to invite MPs into the hall, the law will now be short, just a few amendments, and I call for effective and effective work. So we are going to consider the draft Law (4541) to amend some of Ukraine’s legislation on reducing barriers to foreign investment (No. 4541). It's a second reading, it's going according to the prescribed procedure. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kiral Sergio Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 4 October 16 the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on reducing barriers to foreign investment and amending the rules on the employment and temporary residence of foreigners, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Kiralem, Semimenach, Dobrodomov, Vojcicko, Sisojenko, Markevich, Sotnik, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhajlovich and Mrs Jurinec. The purpose of the bill is to introduce procedures for the granting of work permits for foreigners and temporary residence certificates in Ukraine to Ukrainian legislation and to international requirements and to common sense. Simply put, this law on Ukrainian business, on Ukrainian businesses and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who work or can work in businesses in Ukraine, especially in the field of new industries, IT, research, and so on. This law on the protection of these jobs. This law on imports, not labour, but new technologies and new production. We're actually restricting labour migration by this law to the highest-class specialists. This law on dignity, about our fair treatment of people who invest their money in Ukraine and Ukraine, helps with volunteerism, as well as a vivid example of Midan, mention our minister, give jobs and bring with them new knowledge and technology. Stop putting up with this post - Soviet approach by a police state that wanted to control everything and limit everything. During the hybrid war with Russia, we have to end diplomatic relations, introduce visa regimes, restrict citizens' access and aggressors' businesses to the Ukrainian market. But we also need to remember the allies, the citizens of the European Union, the United States and the rest of the free world, who are supporting us and who themselves are facing various kinds of threats today. And I hope you will also join me and we will all, together with the Head of the Supreme Council, extend our sympathy to the citizens of Britain, the people of Britain in the UK Embassy in Ukraine, for the terrible terrorist attack that took place yesterday in Manchester, where 22 people were killed by the terrorists. Thus, this Law on Removing Regulatory Barriers, fewer contacts with officials, and more money for the budget because of increased administrative services for issuing documents, less corruption, for all procedures, including modifications, cancellations, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u10	are written in the body of the law itself. There is also a comprehensive list of documents established by law that officials are entitled to require from applicants. And this is very important in terms of weak institutions that are all over corrupt and bureaucratic. So, dear colleagues, I ask the entire room to support the authors, the experts, the international organizations that work in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u11	Thank you. I ask the amendment authors to prepare for the discussion, and I'll call the amendments rejected. 6th, People's Deputy of Semimenah. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Head, I'll speak immediately, with your permission, on two orders, and if you don't mind, I'll take two minutes and say the main ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u13	Okay. Please turn on the microphone for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! I would like to highlight in my statement the importance of this legislative initiative, which contributes to reducing the problems of foreign investment involved and, in general, gradually, let it gradually, but nevertheless, improves the investment climate of our country. In particular, I wanted to draw attention to the following aspects. First. It is essential to liberalise the procedure for obtaining a temporary residence permit and a residence permit for a foreign investor, if it is the owner or beneficiary of a company registered in Ukraine, provided that its share in the statutory capital of a Ukrainian company is not less than 100,000 euros. Moreover, the extension of the validity of the certificate for such a foreigner will take place if it is confirmed that the company pays its income tax in at least 50 minimum wages per year. We believe that this rule will remove the point of abuse of such witnesses. The other one. The concept of special categories of foreign workers is introduced, for which the duration of the work permit increases from one to three years. For the time being, the work permit is issued for one year. The three-year permit is extended only to highly paid workers with wages of more than 50 minimum wage, which is about 160,000 bracelets, top universities graduates, creative workers and IT professionals of the highest grade. Third. The list of documents required for submission is halved to obtain such a certificate. And the next. Employers are obliged to submit a permit to work from open sources of information systems. For example, from a single national register of legal persons, natural persons, entrepreneurs. That's what the inspector can get for himself. So, honourable colleagues, we urge you to support an important bill that will step by step improve the investment climate in Ukraine and help increase foreign investment in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u15	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Okay. 9th Amendment, Levenchenko. He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u16	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. The bill proposes to facilitate the procedure for obtaining employment permits for all categories of foreigners. This is not really a logical approach, not based on today's reality in Ukraine, when we actually have, not de jure, but de facto huge unemployment, and when it's not logical to create additional competition for Ukrainians in the labor market today in our country. It would be logical that this would apply only to those people who can add to the Ukrainian society and to the Ukrainian economy, namely foreign highly paid professionals, to those industries or to those jobs where, unfortunately, so far there are few similar professionals in Ukraine. It would be logical, but not entirely for any job, for any position. So it's my amendment that makes this context easier, not the whole labor market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u17	Will you comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u18	Thank you, Your Honor, for the amendment. I would like to point out once again that this bill really refers to an exclusive list of four categories of high-paid IT graduates of universities, top-10 of the world's best universities, as well as representatives of creative professions that are actually going through a simplified procedure. What is the situation today? That's what we do today. So today, an employer, even a foreign worker, who receives a minimum wage, is entitled to a license. We set the differentiation, we set the fuses: the minimum five wages for workers in charities and the minimum ten wages for all other employees employed. That's why these fuses are here. We're talking about Ukraine today, where it works, it employs only 9,000, think about 9,000 foreign workers, compared to 22.5 million working-age people in Ukraine. So these are the people, instead, who will create the added cost and the new jobs that we need to save.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u19	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Yes. I'm voting for Amendment 9 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:19:45]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next: 12th, Lechchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. 12th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u20	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I would still like to respond to what has been said. It's frank, I don't know how to say it right, manipulation or indiscretion, how to define words correctly. My previous amendment, I quote, quote the law that I tried to get out of it. For whom, in effect, was it suggested that appropriate relief be given. "Securred foreign workers and stateless persons sent by a foreign employer to Ukraine to carry out a certain amount of work (services) on the basis of contracts (contracts) concluded between Ukrainian and foreign operators." There's no word for creative, there's no word for IT professionals. Yes, those words are still in the bill, but it's not just. And the manipulation that this legislation applies not only to IT professionals, but not only to creative professions, but to a much wider circle of people. And even when we're talking about IT professionals and creative professions, it's not narrowed down enough for this to apply only to people who are not in Ukraine, who are not in Ukraine. So I'm sorry, I don't think that's the way to vote for this bill. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u22	Thank you, once again, Your Honor, for your comment. I would like to point out once again that, in fact, there is a regulatory framework in Ukraine today that regulates the granting of work permits and a temporary residence certificate. It is today. Everything this bill does, much of this base is passed on to the level of the law. We can't rule out these standards as suggested by the honourable colleague, because then we'll balance the existing system even. And about that differentiation for all the employees, the other hired workers that I'm talking about, we're actually introducing extra -- extra -- certain fuses, setting up, raising the minimum wage for those employers that the employer will have the right to grant. And these are the four categories that I'm talking about, those that are just going to have better conditions. These are the categories of foreign workers in which Ukraine is to be interested today because they bring new jobs, new technologies, new knowledge. This is the development of our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u23	Do they insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 12 People's Deputies of Lechchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:22:34]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next, 13th, Lechchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u24	I'd like to make the 14th amendment right now. Actually, 13th and 14th are the same. I'm calling attention to it again. Whether the reporter hasn't really studied the bill or what, I don't even know how to react. Because the bill applies to simplification. Except for the investment part, when we talk about the labour market, the bill deals with facilitating the process of obtaining permits. Ease! It's a relief with respect to the operating system. And when it's said that it's only four directions, I'm quoting paragraph 6 of section I, for example, of the bill that's being proposed, in fact, another category for which the system is going to be simplified. Foreign employees, a foreigner or a stateless person who works under the Ukrainian employer’s employment contract. It's a general, general norm, it's not exactly what you're talking about right now. So I'm asking you to rule out these things, and I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u25	Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u26	I propose such amendments, I'd like to pay attention to the hall, there's a lot in the honourable colleague. They're actually. The purpose of these amendments is actually to exclude those norms that form the basis of this law. This law, which really has to create just conditions for those working in Ukraine today. So I suggest that the chairman put these, at the request of the author, amendments to the confirmation and move on more dynamically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u27	Thank you. So you insist on voting, do you, Mr. Yuri? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 14 People's Deputies of Lechchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:24:45.]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 17th, Levechenko. He insists. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u28	Mr. Chairman, I propose you do. Please give me two minutes, I'll name all the corrections, because they're really one point, one question. I see there's no support in the hall. I'll name all these amendments, please give me a minute to explain and we'll put all the votes together if you're allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u29	Plus add one minute to add two minutes together.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u31	And I'd like you to name all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u32	So this is about amendment 17, 20th, 23rd, 27th, 34th, 37th, 41st, 45th, 54th, 57th, 57th, 60th, 64th, 68th, 69th, 71st, 74th and 76th. So all of my amendments relate to the question that I strongly disagree with the proposal of the authors of this bill to liberalize the system of permits for foreign workers entirely throughout the labour market. Because I'm stressing once again what's reported here is that the bill prescribes liberalisation for the entire labor market. Yes, indeed, it should be easier to obtain permits for the most highly paid workers, who have no analogues in Ukraine or very few. Yeah, that makes sense. And this is the principle that the most developed countries in Western Europe, the United States, Canada, are also working, except Western Europe. It's a logical principle. In this way we encourage the best professionals from around the world to come to us, without making life difficult for our citizens living in conditions of huge unemployment, because we actually have huge unemployment today. Despite these victorious government and statistical institutions, unemployment is in fact huge. So you can't even create hypothetical conditions for low-paid, low-skilled foreign labor force to push Ukrainians out of labor markets. So please support these adjustments. In the absence of support for these amendments, please ask conscious members of the people not to vote in favour of this bill in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u33	Thank you. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put to the vote all the amendments listed by Yuri Lewchenk, and then we're going to go to the vote for the law itself. So in four or five minutes, we're going to make a decision. I'm asking you to schedule your time and be in the office. I'm moving on to the amendments. 17th Lechchenka repair. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. Vote. [[16:27:56]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 20th. People's Deputy Levchenko. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:28:17]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 23rd. Illenko, Golovko, Osukhovsky, and Levchenko The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:28:40]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 27th, Levenchenko. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:29:00]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 34th, Levenchenko. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[16:29:27]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 37th People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:29:53]] For-54 The decision is not taken. But the dynamic was positive, it was 51. 41st National Deputy Levchenko. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[16:30:17]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 45th, Levenchenko. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:30:37]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 54th, Levenchenko. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:30:57]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 57th, Levenchenko. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:31:18]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 60th, Levenchenko. The committee turned it down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:31:38]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 64th. The committee turned it down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:31:58]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 68th, Levenchenko. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:32:17]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 69th. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. I ask you to invite the Supreme Council Secretariat and the faction to the Hall. [[16:32:40]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 71st. The committee turned it down. Please vote on who supports it. Please include the 71st vote. [[16:33:05]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 74th. The committee turned it down. Please vote on who supports it. [[16:33:26]] For-39 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of Lechchenka, 76th. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. [[16:33:49]] For-42 The decision is not taken. And the final two amendments to Victor Pinzenik, then to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Turn on Victor Pinzenik's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I would like to express my position in two ways, they are counted, 82 and 83, and in this regard, please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u35	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u36	I'm asking you to draw your colleagues' attention to two moments. Wait a second. If you've set up your own more or less serious company and invested in Ukraine, it's obvious that to run a company you trust the person you trust. When it comes to a foreign investor, it is hard to expect that such trust can be gained by a Ukrainian citizen. I find it hard to expect that the foreign bank that opened its branch in Ukraine will appoint a Ukrainian banker to run this bank, even though we have the right categories of people. Wait a second. The law does not establish the right of foreigners to work in Ukraine, and that is not the problem today. But if a foreigner made an investment, he works here every year, he has to get a job permit in Ukraine every year. The law provides that we will give this permission for three years. In order to prevent low - quality workers from working in Ukraine, the law sets minimum wage requirements, that is, it prevents unskilled workers from arriving here. I'm not going to say that this law makes a breakthrough in the investment climate, but in a field where there are many mines, it's a small step towards creating a favourable investment climate. And I ask my colleagues to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u37	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. We're taking up jobs. One minute, the closing words of Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u38	I would like to thank, first and foremost, the co-authors and, indeed, the broad expertise involved in the drafting of this bill. None of you, any of you fellow MPs who will support and vote on this bill today, will be ashamed. You will be thanked in your districts, in your regions, representatives of companies and businesses, associations that have been waiting for this kind of bill for over 10 years. We're not talking about liberalisation, we're not canceling permits, we're not canceling temporary certificates, we're bringing in in line with the generally accepted rules of common sense, dignity and justice, the normal treatment of those representatives of foreign business that are here, regardless of the difficult conditions of war, corruption and other problems that we face, work here, create jobs, and not bring them out just, on the contrary, beyond Ukraine. So I urge everyone to support this bill in their second reading and in general with technical legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u39	Thank you. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on reducing barriers to foreign investment (to cancel the registration of foreign investment and to amend the rules on the employment and temporary residence of foreigners) (number 4541) in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. The law is unifying, important only to be disciplined, carefully voted. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. We're backing it up. [[16:37:55]] For 239. The law is passed. And finally, we move on to the cluster of the thematic day of environmental policy. There's an environmental minister in the hall, Ostap Semerak, to participate in our discussion. And I'm announcing for consideration the first bill that was submitted, this is the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act with the President's proposals (2009)a. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u40	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! Continuing such a positive aura in our hall, the previous speaker said that he had waited 10 years for business to deregulation and foreign business, including. Similarly, according to the Environmental Impact Assessment Bill, for more than 10 years the environmental community has been struggling to adopt a new pro-European risk assessment system for human life and health and the environment. In fact, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act has been under consideration for two years in this Parliamentary Call alone. I would like to remind you that our Parliament, which has been convened, has already passed the law in general, but the President of Ukraine has had a comment on it and, in fact, has participated in the drafting of the law with the President's comments, both the people's deputies, the members of our committee and the members of other committees, the people's deputies. The profile ministry, the President's Office, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, Justice, Finance, Infrastructure, Regional Development and Construction, the Ministry of Defence, the State Department of Ukraine in emergency situations, the Regulatory Service, the National Atomic Energy Company and so on. And with the support of, in fact, the bill, in particular, was also made by Crushing, and by representatives of the public, and by business associations. The 44 proposals made by the people's deputies, including for the implementation of President of Ukraine's proposals and 41 proposals, the amendment, our committee took into account 3 proposals, the amendments made by the people's deputies, were rejected. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council's apparatus called for a bill of observation. According to the Committee and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the amended law fully takes into account the President's proposals and, in fact, the same position is the President's Administration, and can be adopted as a law as a whole. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes a revised draft law on environmental impact assessment in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 February 2017 to adopt, as a whole, as a law with technical and legal developments. Dear colleagues, on February 7th, we sent this bill to work on the Supreme Council. All procedures were met, national deputies had the opportunity to make their amendments, and the public was actively monitoring the project. The Ambassador of Ukraine to the European Union, Hugh Mingarelli, sent both to the Speaker of the Supreme Council and to the committees, and to us, the National Deputies, the Recommendations and the Proposals for the adoption of this law, in particular, that it corresponds to the Eurodoxins and, in fact, to the implementation of the European directives, according to our obligations under the Treaty on European Association. Therefore, I ask your support, please accept as a law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u41	Thank you. So, colleagues, only three amendments have been rejected, so the discussion will be brief, don't go out, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall, prepare for the vote, just three amendments, now I'll name them. The 24 amendments of the Bakumenko People’s Deputy were rejected. Does he insist on performing? No, it's not. The following was rejected: 33 amendments were made by the national deputy Ednak. Is it insisting? No, it's not. And the last one that was rejected is 44 Bakumenko's amendment. Don't insist on the performance. So, dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion and I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. As the national deputies enter the hall, I give the floor one minute for Ostap Semerak's speech and ask everyone to come to the hall. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u42	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! In fact, the drafting of this bill for voting is a good example of cooperation, like all factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, committee and government and ministries. In fact, the adoption of this bill will enable us to implement a progressive, updated, balanced European model of environmental impact assessment and to implement the European directives that we have assumed responsibility to implement. I would also like to point out that in the absence of a vote on this bill, the European Energy Community has already begun last December not to fulfil our obligations and we can get sanctions already in June of this year. So I would ask for consolidation, all the amendments are taken into account, all the comments that have been made public by all the interested parties are discussed, and the bill is ready for voting in general. So, Andry Volodymyrovich, I ask the Supreme Council to support this joint product.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u43	More optimism, I think we'll take it now. Let's just say there are no votes. Please, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. And I'm voting on the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009-a-deputy number) as a whole, colleagues. An important law for European integration, for a long time it has been prepared and fully harmonized, and I ask that it be supported throughout 2009a in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:44:51]] For 232 The law is passed, the decision is taken. Colleagues, let's move on to the next cluster of environmental policy issues, this is going to be three laws in the first reading. And we start with the first one, this is the draft of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act (number 6106). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[16:45:31]] For-153 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Mr. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster reviewed the bill at its meeting and proposed it for adoption in our session on the basis of the first reading. The bill is designed to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation in the area of application and order of strategic environmental assessment in accordance with the approach set out in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. This law is extended to state planning documents that will affect the environment and health of the population. It doesn't extend to documents. The act of the bill. The law will not be extended to State planning documents relating to national security and emergencies, budgets, budgetary programmes and financial plans, as well as to programmes for the economic and social development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, regions and cities for a short period of time. Dear colleagues, you have a very serious bill to offer. He was already looking at the walls of this Parliament during Parliament's eighth call. He was favorably supported by most of the people's deputies, but he was dedicated to the President of Ukraine. When we defeated the veto, we did not gather 300 votes, and the bill was therefore not accepted. After that, the bill had already been tabled in agreed texting, reregistered in Parliament’s walls. We propose to support this bill on the basis, and when we discuss the proposals that we will be willing to make if we adopt it positively in the first reading on the basis, to approve it as a whole, to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u45	I've got it from the base committee. So not "in general," "on the basis," is it? Well, we need an offer. Okay! So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. Ivan Krulko, please. He's handing over Rybkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u46	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. I welcome everyone's adoption of the last bill, it's really a European reform in ecology. I hope that this bill will also win votes. However, we are wasting Parliament’s time on what could have already worked to protect our people in the past year. Because these two bills were dedicated by the President's Administration under the influence of very influential agarns. A very influential agrarian lobby, for which even environmentalists awarded them this award last year "Pig of the Year" for planting such a pig on the Ukrainian people. Why the Ukrainian people? And what do these bills decide? These bills help to resolve environmental issues. And look at how powerful these agar lobbyists who can not only pledge these bills directly in the President's office, but for example, we're fighting the whole faction. against the sale of land and we have been blocked by the courts regarding the referendum. So, please look at what the inhabitants of the village of Bilika Poltava district, the village of Sivka-Vojnilovska Ivano-Frankivska district, the village of Velika Stratovka Vinnicka district, our natives from Špola from Cherkaščina write: "The owners of animal farms ignore the opinion of the local population, do not follow animal farming technology and save at all possible measures of minimizing environmental emissions and warning of environmental impacts. Fertilizers and fertilizers pollute drinking water sources, fields, and cities, and edible fumes cause local residents to experience respiratory problems, allergic reactions, and a host of associated diseases. Neither the government authorities nor the local authorities want to influence these businessmen, so people are left alone with their problems." These are the kind of European laws that protect the very good investors and that are designed to balance the interests of the community with the interests of big businesses that don't want to invest in the environment, that don't want to do the right business, that pollute the air, that make the cattle market, and that's what people and the environment are suffering from. So please vote and support this bill in the first reading and then in the second. Fatherland will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u47	Please, Anton Heratchenko of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u48	Anton Heratchenko, your performance is happening in these seconds. I didn't push. Okay, next up is Kishkar Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u49	Thank you, colleagues. Everyone in this room understands how important it is to ensure economic development without a problem of environmental damage. The adoption of this bill will contribute to improving the quality of life of people, and this also has significant advantages in improving health care and creating a green economy. The adoption of this law will facilitate the involvement of the community and all interested persons in a strategic environmental assessment. Since the beginning of the development of population programs, people have to understand the consequences that economic projects will have on the environment of the region. I believe that this law will help improve the lives of the population if such standards of this law are, of course, implemented. And if we're going to put in place some systems for the development of the restoration of Donbas and the repossessed Crimea, of course, that law will contribute to this development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u50	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Now, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u51	Please pass the word to Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u52	The introduction of a strategic environmental assessment will allow for an assessment of the state planning document in terms of its environmental impact, including population health and ecosystem stability, in accordance with the requirements of the EU Directive, which is established by the Association Agreement. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the adoption of this bill is important for Ukraine as a country that respects its international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u53	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Is there another Paul Dziblik from the front? Please, one minute. It's a closing statement. And let's move on to the decision. Please, Paul Dziblik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. The People's Front will vote in favour of this bill. I would like to address all of you with the time not to fight the effects of pollution, pollution, but to warn you about pollution. And that's what's going to make this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u55	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm betting on the vote. Please come into the hall, colleagues, I see that not everyone is in the hall. Please put the draft Act on Strategic Environmental Assessment (No.6106) to the vote as a basis. Please vote, please support me as a base. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:54:37]] For 231 Decision taken. There was a whole offer. No, the objection. All right, then a reduced procedure for second reading. I'm asking you to help me shorten the deadline for making suggestions, the amendments to the second reading. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please support, colleagues, we vote. Short procedure for second reading. [[16:55:11]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Thus, Law 6106 was adopted in the first reading. Let's move on to the next law of the environmental policy block. This is a draft law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes on the Improvement of the Financing Mechanism for Radioactive Waste Management (No.6435). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. [[16:55:55]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Ecology Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u56	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Thank you, distinguished national deputies, for your support of the previous two laws. And I would now like to draw your attention to one of the two laws prepared by the government to restore the funding mechanism for radioactive waste management. In fact, the bill that I'm about to report is to amend the 4th article of the Ukrainian Act on Radioactive Waste Management should obviously be considered along with the bill on amending the budget code, which will only be considered tomorrow on the budget committee, and obviously it would be right to vote together. However, I would like to say that these two bills have been prepared for the implementation of the President's decree on additional measures to transform the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally sound system and to restore the area that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, and perhaps the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on "30 years after Chernobyl: lessons and perspectives" approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on April 13, last year. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has developed and introduced two bills to review the Supreme Council, as I have said, to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of the State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management, namely the restoration of the mechanism for managing this State Fund for the management of radioactive waste in accordance with best international practices. In short of time, I'd like to say that this mechanism worked until 2010, but it was changed in the 10th year. In this regard, only 10 percent of the government’s targeted radioactive waste management program, approved by Ukrainian law, has been implemented during this period.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u57	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u58	I would also like to inform you that, as of August 2018, Ukraine will have to take radioactive waste from the Russian Federation to storage in Ukraine. Regrettably, the cumulative nature of the Radioactive Waste Management Fund has not worked, and 10 percent of the program has been funded, and the need to finance these works is very high today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u59	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give me the floor to report to the head of the Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, John Rybak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u60	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to restore the cumulative status of the State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management in order to develop the necessary infrastructure and to support the safety of existing facilities to deal with radioactive wastes at the current level. In 2009, such a fund was already created — the Radioactive Waste Management Fund. It was filled with revenue from the special fund of the state budget for congregation visas for environmental pollution, which was used for radioactive waste generation and for the temporary storage of radioactive waste by their manufacturers. In 2010, with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code, the environmental pollution assembly was renamed environmental tax and amended article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Radioactive Waste Management. And in early 2015, changes were made to the Ukrainian Budget Code, article 29, which resulted in the revenue of the State budget of Ukraine from the payment of environmental taxes at the expense of the fund, being transferred from the special to the general fund of the State Budget, which, in turn, resulted in the loss of the fund's cumulative character and the mechanism for the purpose of using its funds. As stated in the financial and economic justification for this bill, under the existence of the State Radioactive Waste Management Fund, it is planned to gradually move to 100% funding for the management of radioactive wastes from the fund by 2019. The adoption of this bill will contribute to improving the safety of existing and future generations from the harmful effects of ionizing radiation from radioactive waste. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster of the Supreme Council proposes the adoption of a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes on Improving the Financing Mechanism for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes on a Basis and Overall as a Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm now addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies, asking them to sign up for the faction bill. The MPs who will now speak will represent the position of the factions. Please. Please, Sergey Kiral of. Sergei Kiral of Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u62	Markevich's word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u63	Markevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u64	It is claimed by developers that accounting for environmental taxes to the general fund makes the state fund’s treatment of radioactive waste worse. And it needs a special fund. However, a valid budget code, article 13, paragraph 7, provides that funds may be used from the general budget to the special budget. So there's a mechanism for financing the government's capital expenditure on radioactive waste management. All I have to do is do my job, Kabmin, and not look the other way. In addition, it would be appropriate to provide the bill with overhead information on the results of the activity, including the effectiveness of the functioning of the previous fund, as well. Which is also indicated by the GNEU. So we don't think it's appropriate to adopt this bill. We need to develop a new state-of-the-art economy. an environmental program and do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, now, the word from "Peter Dust Block" to John Rybaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, in fact, there is no separate special fund to deal with radioactive wastes today. But this law is specifically proposed to return what was proposed to be a good idea and was implemented in 2009. The financial and economic justification of this law clearly describes how these costs will be used. These costs are, indeed, proposed in the law, the draft law stipulates that these costs are proposed to be used according to the position approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. So it's going to be a targeted use of funds, and these costs are going to be transitional, and they're going to have a cumulative status. This fund is going to have a cumulative status. Unlike today’s environmental tax funds, the General Fund of the State Budget and the new fiscal year are being dissolved in the general fund as residual funds. I call on everyone to support me. The bill is really hard. The European partners, the United States, will stop funding all the work that is being done today in the alienation zone of the Chernobyl nuclear power station under the FVC-2 and so forth. We need, today, to continue our work right after the ecologically safe functioning of the Ark of Hide, and these costs will enable us to implement all the projects that we have taken before the world community before we realize ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u67	Thank you. Please, Logan George Volodymyrovich, People's Front. Matvienkov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u68	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. The funding system, to date, industry is unfortunately broken down, and we feel it very well. The banking system itself works, the industry itself works. What am I talking about? It is virtually impossible to take a credit line to modernize the environmental programme today. And if we calculate how much industrial funds have been paid to environmental funds over the past few years for excess emissions, we will come to billions. So that's how these billions were used effectively? What are we talking about today? Today we're trying something, we're going to talk like that, we're going to tap a certain existing system, we need to change it to the root. We have repeatedly talked about this, and at each session we pass bills that say let us change our approach in principle. Today, the very bad situation, the more the enterprise smokes, the more it pays, the more it goes to centralized sources, the more it benefits the centre to keep these businesses smoke. To date, we have up to 600 public programmes, none of which are targeted to address environmental emissions in the complex. Finally, let us stop and take this money and allocate it to specific programmes for the reconstruction of sources of pollution. But unfortunately, no one wants to do this for one simple reason, probably very simply to manage these tools, huge means that are now being accumulated somewhere in the central sources. Let's, after all, do we want to solve the problem of ecology, or do we want our people to breathe air pollution and look at the sources of emissions that manufacturers are unable to upgrade or construct to this day, and the environment is just looking through their fingers because this situation is very good for them? So as long as we don't take a fundamental approach to changing the system itself, I don't think we're going to get any results. Therefore, this bill is an intermediate phase, and we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u69	Colleagues, we're moving on to decision-making, discussion is over. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Invite a fellow MP into the hall. So I'd like you to prepare. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes on Improving the Financing Mechanism for Radioactive Waste Management (No. 6435) on the basis of colleagues. I ask your support, we will be able to include all the revisions and suggestions between the first and the second readings. The committee's proposing a foundation as a whole, but I'm just laying the groundwork so that we can get votes so that we can take this proposal as a compromise so that we don't break the law. I'm asking you to support me, I'm asking you to vote 6435 as a basis. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[17:09:18]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues, next law. Colleagues, there was a committee decision in general, I'll put it in, but I don't think there's gonna be any votes for it, but I'll make a committee proposal. So I'm voting on the proposal of the 6435 Committee as a whole. Supporter, please vote, vote. It won't work, I know it won't. [[17:09:59]] For 201 I told you, she doesn't stand a chance of getting voted. The decision is not taken. So here's the question: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture on Rural Green Tourism (2232a). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:10:33]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Brenzowich Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, under "rural green tourism" in the context of article 1 of the Law on Personal Agriculture, we need to understand the specific type of agricultural activity in the form of rural hospitality, which implies the provision of services for recreation in private farms, rural areas and labour resources of members of the private agriculture of the natural-recreational characteristics of the area, cultural, historical and ethnographic heritage of the region. It's a kind of self-occupation of the population that increases the role of the country, it mediocreizes the elements of active activity and recreation, it creates a living environment that's close to nature. Given the current state of socio-economic development of rural areas, the social dimension of this activity is of paramount importance. Therefore, rural green tourism is seen as one of the means of income generation for rural populations, as a component of the integrated development of rural areas, as well as of rural infrastructure, and as a factor in the strategy of overcoming poverty in rural areas. The above provides a basis for recognition of rural green tourism as a socially valuable and beneficial area of social relations that deserves all the support of the State. Because this type of economic activity has gained legalization in Ukraine through the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act, according to which it does not apply to entrepreneurial activities, and of course it does not require the creation of a legal person, rural green tourism has gained widespread development in our country. At the same time, there is a question in the individual monitoring bodies about clarifying those forms, places, the extent of this activity, within which such activities should be considered part of the activities of the individual agricultural sector, which requires clarification of the legal definition of rural green tourism. The bill proposes a legal definition of rural green tourism by amending the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act by supplementing part of the first article 7 with paragraph 16 of that content.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u71	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u72	Free of charge or free of charge in the area of rural green tourism, such as services from more than 10 places to eat, as well as leisure activities and activities related to the use of personal agricultural property by local customs and hospitality traditions. And the bill is proposed by the sixth. paragraph 6 of the fourth part of article 10 of the Act on the organisation in the rural area of vocational training and retraining of members of the individual agricultural holding shall be supplemented by the words "including the provision of green services. rural green tourism."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u73	Thank you. The committee’s deputy head, Mr. Bakumenko, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u74	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations discussed at its meeting on 8 December a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture on Rural Green Tourism (Registration No. 2232a) from 02.07.2015 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Personal Agriculture Act, in particular the right of members of private agriculture to grant free or free services in the field of rural green tourism and to specify the types of such services. It is also the responsibility of executive authorities and local governments to promote private agriculture in the rural areas of vocational training and retraining of members of private agriculture in the field of rural green tourism. The adoption of the bill will facilitate the employment of the rural population, increase its income, and lead to the development of tourism infrastructure and integrated rural development. Please support the bill (registration number 2232a) as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u75	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Skuratovsky passes the word to Oleg Valeriovich Ljašk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u76	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, a wonderful idea is rural tourism. But when you make this journey today over 80 miles from Kiev, for example, to my home country of Chernigovishte, to the north to the Belarusian border or to the Russian border, you will find that sightseeing in famous Chernigovishland, as in many other parts of our country, is not exactly for the attractive and attractive eye of tourists: abandoned houses, broken windows, doors in former kindergartens, schools, hospitals, lack of roads, lack of work for peasants, no social spheres. In order to be a tourist in our village, there has to be a job there. And in order for it to be a job, you don't have to sell the land, as the authorities have suggested, and these compadres here are aspiring for the sale of land by so-called optimists, and all the others, I don't want to call it. You're not optimistic, you're the ones who want to take the future to Ukraine because our optimism of the real Ukrainians is linked to one another so that Ukraine has a job and a salary. And if you want to turn the country into a banana republic, into a raw colony, so that all of us can go abroad, and you can trade land, trade pensions, trade for the country's interests, I ask, where is the country's national interest? Only one: job and salary to Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u77	From "The Rebirth Party" Vassil Aleksandrovich used to play.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u78	Out of the way. Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. Green tourism is Ukraine's future, and everyone on the ground understands that. If we are going to Europe, then we must do this green tourism and help people on the ground to develop, those entrepreneurs who want to do it. Of course, you have to make roads in Ukraine first, and then green tourism will develop. The Rebirth Party will, of course, support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u79	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u80	Please give it to Krivenkov Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u82	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I remember when I worked as deputy director of the Ukrainian Space Agency, a strategy developed by one of Ukraine’s ministries for 20 years came to our attention in 2009. So in that strategy, it started essentially like this. In the world of 26 global problems: pandemic, terrorism. Ukraine can solve two of these problems: clean water and food. Since the year 13, there has been no mention of industry. Since the year 13, nothing industrial has been considered at all. For Ukraine, tourism, agricultural production, raw materials, and transit were exclusively planned. And this, of course, has to be broken. Then we were able to stop this strategy along with those patriots who were still working. Now again, we're not getting into serious industrial development issues. The creation of an export credit agency has been blocked. Why? If the government has promised, if this is recorded in the Coalition Agreement. Because we're being dictated outside? In Europe, there are only two countries with no export credit agency, except for Ukraine, Albania and Moldova. Because it needs a high-tech business, because it needs airlines to build, shipbuilding, and our car builders need this agency. There is no consideration of deepening the benefits in our special economic zones, the benefits in industrial parks. Look at Lithuania, look at Poland, Slovakia, Turkey. How many times are we not going to repeat successful policies? Why do we constantly listen to some incomprehensible consultant rather than repeat what would lead the country to success? That's why we're going to vote in favour of this law on rural tourism. But I'm asking very much that our government hears that it can't continue to work like this and that it does the industrialization of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u83	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. And Yvchenko of "The Fatherland" passes the word to Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u84	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear colleagues, I have such a twofold feeling about this law. On the one hand, the bill is more of a declarative nature and can only be a good signal and the beginning of further legislative changes. In order for this direction to really work, we need to develop a comprehensive bill on rural green tourism, to consolidate the definition of this phenomenon in the Ukrainian Tourism Act, i.e. to address this issue in a comprehensive way. On the other hand, on the other hand, the world’s current of tourism has already increased by more than 10 percent of the total tourist flow. When the election was in a united community, the whole "Paternity" team was working on this election, and then we shared the impression of our fantastic villages. I was personally with my colleague Valery Dubyl in Chernigovishte. Men’s United Society, Komarovka, Kozelec Society. You know, really, we've seen problems in the villages, we've seen closed schools, we've seen bad roads. Yet, on the other hand, I saw such a fantastic recreational potential. The number of storks I saw there and the care people care about, I didn’t see anywhere. And this should really involve tourists. There's no such thing as a unique historical and ethnographic potential of Ukrainian villages. That is why it is vital that we cultivate this course. What we have is traditional hospitality, I don't think I can tell you, there's a lot of MPs here. That's why I'm offering it. To accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. There's nothing to work on. We'll take it. And according to the committee's colleagues, we're going to be tasked with developing a comprehensive bill that will allow investment and attract people, foreigners, our Ukrainians to Ukrainian villages to develop this direction, create jobs and develop our villages. We vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u85	Thank you. One more minute and we'll vote. Let's go into the hall. Colleagues, we're getting ready to vote. Please turn on the Solovay microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u86	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that today many countries define tourism as one of the priorities for developing their economies. If we look at Ukraine today, if the potential of tourism is being used for full capacity, obviously there are no such things. Today, tourism is less than 5 percent of gross domestic product. Of course, the potential for development in this particular area in Ukraine is enormous. As far as the bill is concerned, it is clearly to be accepted as a whole. But at the same time, I'm talking about this over and over again, we need serious complex programs, especially for the development of our Carpathian infrastructure, which are not only a pearl of Ukraine, but also a pearl of the whole of Western Europe. And we need to do everything we can to make the infrastructure, the roads, the accessibility of this region the highest level to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u87	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u88	To develop, especially in our Carpathians, rural green tourism and to invest in this extremely promising sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u89	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I think this question also brings everyone together, this is a question of green tourism and tourism development in Ukraine, which envisions a very promising way of filling the budget. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act on Rural Green Tourism (2232a) as a basis. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[17:25:06]] For 231 Colleagues, was there a proposal in general? No, right? Come on, colleagues, I'm putting 2232a in total, colleagues. Please take your seats, please support green tourism and the development of tourism in Ukraine. Please vote 2232a as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:25:46]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Law 2232a was adopted as a basis. Just for the basis. Well, colleagues. Colleagues, look, I'll explain. There's really nothing to do. It's not going to be work between first and second reading, it's actually two revisions that have a few sentences. Let's go back and vote in general, colleagues. I don't know who didn't vote. Give it to me. I'll see who didn't vote. Supportable, colleagues? Let's go, colleagues, back to the whole thing and then I'll put it all together. Let's mobilize, the authors are actually of all the factions. And this is a universally unifying law. Now I'm going to propose to go back to voting in general, and then again in general, if that's the will of the room. Let's support it. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act (2232a). And I ask you to support this proposal, please vote, every vote matters, carefully, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:27:17]] For 206 No, no, 206, colleagues, no understanding, so just on the basis of adopting this law. And we move on to the final draft of environmental issues, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of pralis under the Framework Convention on Protection and Development of Carpathians (Registration No. 4480). It's the second reading, colleagues, not many amendments, so please don't go away. I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u90	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of pralis in accordance with the Carpathian Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development (Registration No. 4480). Dear colleagues, you all know that pralis have an important conservation, scientific, ethical value for our nation, and pralice is also a place where there are many red-skinned animals and red-skinned plants. The need for 100% full protection of pralis is also reported in the International Framework Convention for the Protection and Sustainable Development of Carpathians. In a pan-European strategy for the conservation of the biological landscape, part of the Ukrainian pralis is part of UNESCO’s international heritage. Regrettably, Ukrainian environmental legislation does not meet the requirements of European conservation legislation in relation to the protection of pralis. The purpose of the law is to implement the Framework Convention on the Protection and Development of Carpathians in the Pralis. According to reports, there is an end to the forest’s edges in the pralis, the imposition of administrative responsibility for destruction, and damage to the pralis. Between the first and second readings, the committee received 90 proposals from legal entities, 12 of which were rejected, and 78 were taken into account. The chief legal scientific office of the Supreme Council’s Apparatus called for a notable bill. The Committee proposes a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of pralis, according to the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of Carpathians, to be adopted in second reading and as a whole as a law. We also request the commission of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council to introduce technical and legal rights. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u91	Thank you. Please prepare the amendments for discussion. 9th, Luschniak. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 26th. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. 43rd. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 61st. Don't insist. 65th, Chervakova. Don't insist. 66th, not necessarily. 71st, not necessarily. 74th, not necessarily. Would you please inform your colleagues who insist on what amendment by raising your hand? Ivan Rybak. Olya Chervakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! I'd like to address you with regard to article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Natural Command Fund of Ukraine. One of the amendments is prohibited here, and hunting is prohibited in PfP territory. The question is, we have to ban hunting there, not hunting, because hunting is killing animals, and hunting is a sector of economics. So I'm asking you very much in the final edition. in the final editions prohibit hunting itself. It's hunting, not hunting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u93	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u94	On the contrary, hunting is not hunting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u95	I thank you for your comment, if possible, I would like to give the floor to John Rybak, which is that we have once again looked at the revisions, and there are some amendments that we would like to ask for confirmation, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u96	Mrs. Olu, you make up your mind, and we'll put it before the vote. Please, Fish, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, here we would like to ask the co-authors to make some amendments to the confirmation, such as Amendment 5, Amendment 8, Amendment 10. We would also like to ask the text to change the word "thinking" to "hunting." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u98	So before we vote for the transcript, I'm going to say "thinking" for "hunting," and now I'm asking the committee representative to comment on the 5th, 8th, 10th amendment. What's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u99	This is true, once again, of banning cuts, of prohibitions of direct hunting. Hunting. That is, these amendments need to be made for confirmation and decision-making. In general, the committee would suggest that they be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u100	Thank you. I'll bet you number five on confirmation. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:33:42]] For 113 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on number 8 for confirmation. Who supports the 8th amendment, please vote. [[17:34:02]] For-82 The decision is not taken. And the last one, 10 revisions. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:34:20]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we're about to move on to making a decision. The only thing is that Olga Cervakova is going to read the paper, and the committee agrees with her. It's just that she's going to read to the stenographer how it's supposed to be right. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please turn on Olga Redwakov's microphone so she can read the text under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Nature Conservation Fund, which is set forth in such an editorial, part one of article 26: "In the territory of the contracting authorities, thorough passage, logging and progressive sections are prohibited, removal of congestion, and hunting and other activities which are contrary to the objectives and tasks envisaged by the contracting authority." It's the word, the only change. End of quote. The only change is to change "thinking" to "hunting."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u102	So, colleagues, I'm going to put to a vote with an amendment that Ola Cervakov made under the transcript and we're going to make a decision. I am voting on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on protection of pralis, in accordance with the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathian Republic (No. 4480), with technical and legal rights, as well as the amendment announced by the national deputy of Ukraine, Olya Cervakov, on second reading and in general, with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:36:20]] For 223 We didn't make it. I can see we didn't make it. Please take up jobs, be responsible. The Pralis Act is a strategically important law. As we were told, guard the woods, they'll be useful to us. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Law 4480. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. [[17:37:06]] For 239. And I'm voting on draft Law 4480 with the amendment of Olga Cervakovy, with technical and legal rights in second reading and in general. Please vote back. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:37:34]] For 245 The law is passed. Decision taken. So, colleagues, we've completed our consideration of environmental issues. Welcome to the committee for effective and effective work. And now, colleagues, we have a draft Commission Decision on the former guerrillas of the Great National War at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a rudimentary that. There's been a long-standing proposal to eliminate it, and now we're moving on to its consideration, 5688. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:38:27]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sukhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanović. Mr. Yuri will be from the rostrum, won't he? Please, we'll wait. Mr. Yuri, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u103	Take the paper, take the paper. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In its time, a so - called guerrilla commission was established at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Commission was created in contravention of the law because, according to the Constitution as well as with the Rules of the Supreme Council, only committees and a commission on privatization matters, as well as temporary commissions of inquiry, can be created. But despite this, during the reigns here, in the walls of this Supreme Council of yet Communists, socialists, such a commission was created, which was a violation of the law. It was funded by the budget of the Supreme Council. And it exists to this day, it exists contrary to the fact that it is not constitutional, that it violates the Rules. And even the commission for the partisans of the Great Homeland War. It's against the anti-communization law. But of the guerrillas, it's not on that committee. I don't know what she cares about or who she cares about, but it's still funded. So my determination is to eliminate the commission and transfer it to the appropriate body. To entrust this to the Cabinet of Ministers so that the appropriate body can be created, but the Cabinet of Ministers is in central executive power. But I ask this, that the Supreme Council may.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u104	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u105	and voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u106	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Pinzenik Pavlovic, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Paul. Mr. Yuri, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u107	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! The committee discussed the draft Commission Regulation on the former guerrillas of the Great Homeland War, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri-Bogdan Suhevic (registration number 5688). The draft decree proposes, inter alia, to stop the work of the Commission in the case of former partisans of the Great National War 1941-1945 at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recognize that the Supreme Council of Ukraine (since 4 February 1998) decree on the Commission in the case of former partisans of the Great National War 1941-1945. It is also suggested that the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine set up a specialized unit for former partisans in the State Department for War veterans and ATO participants. The commission for the former guerrillas was formed on June 8, 1948, at the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R. And on February 4, 1998, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to consider it to be such that it was created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and entrusted the Administration with providing funding and suitable conditions for the work of such a commission. No purpose or task has been set for this commission. In accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine that regulate the work of the Supreme Council, committees are formed in the Supreme Council, temporary special, temporary commissions of inquiry and there is no provision for the creation by the Supreme Council of any other commission such as this Commission in the case of former partisans of the Great Foreign War. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft Supreme Council Regulation be adopted as a basis and that the registration number 5688 be adopted as a whole. Please support and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u108	Thank you. My colleagues, I'd like to confirm that it was created contrary to the law, but the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, my colleague, are now coming. When we talk about optimisation of work, it's a decision that's studied, it's tested, it doesn't have any ideological coloring. And I'm asking everyone to support this decision. I ask very briefly, very briefly. Please include two in favour, two in favour, and go to making a decision. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're voting right now, aren't we? Let's vote, colleagues. I'll put it to a vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. I'm putting to the vote the bill of the Commission on the case of former guerrillas of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945. At the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 5688) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please every vote, vote, every vote matters. Keep it up, fellows. Every voice matters. Vote. 5688 as a whole. Please be supportive. Careful, colleagues. [[17:44:43]] For 206 Colleagues, this is a completely regulatory decision. Well, colleagues. John, we're about to speak out of motive and we're not going to pass the law. That's going to be the result. This is going to be the result. Colleagues, you're voting, you're supporting. Isn't that right, Ivan? Let's support it. Colleagues, I can't see. Please invite the deputies to the hall. The MPs are coming in. Please come into the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. Fellows, don't go out. On the contrary, come in. I'm asking you very much. In that corner, help me. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote of 5688. Please vote. Colleagues, return to voting. Decision, yes. Please vote for the return to Decree 5688. Please vote, every vote matters, please support. Head! I can't hear anything. We're voting back on the ruling. Huh? Yes, you don't have to go back, it's a decision, it can be taken again. So I put 5688 as a whole. Oh, Head in place, there will be voices. We're voting 5688 as a whole. Please support me, colleagues, please vote. First return, please support. Please support, colleagues, every vote matters, we vote, please support. [[17:46:40]] For 215 Colleagues, well, it's just inconsiderate. Please invite the deputies into the hall, I'll wait. No, now, if we start talking, it'll take 20 minutes. Okay. Fellows, look, now I can give everyone a minute, and it'll take 10 minutes, and we won't be able to go to renaming villages and cities. We're just, it's a dead end if we go to the discussion. Because I can't give it to anyone, and I can't give it to anyone else, and if I give it to someone else, I'm going to have to give it to all the factions of Parliament. I'd like to emphasize that this is eight factions, that's eight performances, that's 15 minutes. And so, if you are responsible for the national MPs, invite your colleagues into the hall, and let's move on to the decision-making process. I'll bet again. Come into the hall, please. I'm re-voting the motion to return to draft regulation 5688. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs. You can see how we have to collect every voice. You're ready, aren't you? Please vote, please support the return of 5688. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Why don't you vote for it, buddy? Please. Why don't you make a public statement? We vote, colleagues, we vote back 5688, we vote. Please be supportive. [[17:48:28]] For 219 Seven votes. I'll put it again, please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I would like to point out that every year there are government funds going to a commission that's created illegally, not a political issue or an ideology issue -- it's a matter of state funds and the economy of state funds. I'm begging you. So, colleagues, each voice has a weight, please enter the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, so this is a functional decision and the chairman of the Regulatory Committee has long insisted that we make this decision, there is no politics here. I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, I'm voting on the motion to return to the vote of 5688. I ask everyone to vote carefully and to support it. Let's go! Please vote carefully for the return, 5688. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Well, why go when making a decision? I don't understand! [[17:50:24]] For 221 Five votes! The MPs just split up in time. Colleagues, well, I respect everyone. There's a vote, there's MPs in front of me walking around the hall, and they don't vote. Well, that's irresponsible too, my friends! This is disrespect for the higher legislature. I'm asking you to stop the political discussions, stop the jobs. Please organize a presence at the workplace. Colleagues, please come into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall. Please prepare and be responsible, colleagues, please vote in favour of the return to 5688. It'll be a shame and shame, if we don't vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support! Please vote. Please back up, fellows! Please. [[17:51:29]] For 225 One voice. Please take up jobs. I'm betting on the return of 5688. One voice. On your return, please, 5688 on your return. Colleagues, every voice, please be careful, every voice, don't walk around the hall, every voice matters. Please vote for the return. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, 5688 return. Please vote. Careful, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:52:17]] For 233 And I'm putting a draft resolution on the Commission on the case of former guerrillas (5688) on the ground and in general. Please vote. Please support, colleagues, on the basis and in general. We vote, we make the Supreme Council more effective. Please vote, colleagues, please support. [[17:52:47]] For 229 It's been decided. Decision taken. Colleagues, me. Please, colleagues, pay attention, in your seats! I have a huge request for you. For many weeks now, we have been carrying the names of cities and villages. It's not decommunization, it's just a technological thing. Guys, don't split up, please. I'm asking you to support me. Please be supportive. We're moving on to the draft regulations. The first is 5352. I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. All decrees. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, it's a name for salt. Our communities are asking and waiting. Because of our irresponsibility, we cannot rename villages and cities. We're going to vote now. Let him report it. [[17:53:40]] For 206 Please, the head of the Fedoruk subcommittee Mikola Trochymovich. Explain the point, and we will quickly vote. Stay where you are, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose. I'm just going to call all the decisions of the committee and the decisions of the committee. I'll just call it the point and put it to a vote right now. It is proposed to rename the village of Padalka of Gožulov, the Council of the Poltava district of Poltava to the village of Biological.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u110	I'll bet. This is the position of the community, colleagues. I'm putting the bill to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why? Colleagues, this is the will of the community of villages. 5352 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u111	Questions. It's not decommunization, it's just called by procedure according to the order, the law that exists. A bunch of villages, citizens want it. It's called Biological all the time. [[17:54:53]] For-140.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u112	The decision is not taken. Next: 5188. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u113	Mukacheva is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u114	Colleagues, pay attention! Listen to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u115	Mukacheveva is proposed to be renamed Mukachevo. The point is that documents that appear in the same village have long been made biological in the past. Mukachev is also proposed to be renamed Mukachevo. The language institution also supports this. The city.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u116	Colleagues, are you all right with this? Everybody agree, can we bet? Vote, colleagues, 5188 as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. The vote is settled. Every voice matters. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:56:05]] For 234 Decision taken. Next: 6204.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u117	Next. It is proposed that the village of Boucin Staroviživ district of Volin district be renamed Bucin (with a soft sign). A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u118	Is everyone all right? So 6204 as a base and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:56:42]] For 219 All right, guys, let's do it again. I'll be right back. 6204. Please vote for return to 6204. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, let's support the community of villages. [[17:57:09]] For 226 We're back. Oh, it's 6204. Next. We voted in general, didn't we? No, it's a comeback. Now I'm putting 6204 as a base and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's keep the community free. Please be supportive. [[17:57:36]] For 227 Decision taken. The next one is 6205. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u119	It is proposed to rename the villages of Chubivok in the region of Cherkas region to the village of Lensk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u120	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u121	Lensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u122	Lensky. Is there no objection? We vote 6205 as a whole. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:58:17]] For 205 No decision taken. Next up, 6358, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u123	It is proposed to rename the villages of Dubka Horrodkowsky district of Ivano-Frankiv region to the village of Dubka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u124	Is it supported? Vote, colleagues, 6358 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support me. [[17:58:58]] For 219 We didn't make it. Please, colleagues, I ask you to return to the hall. I ask you to prepare for the vote. So I'm asking you to vote 6358 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:59:35]] For 222 Colleagues, four votes. Well, there's no objection, is there? Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. The crowd is waiting for our decision. I ask you to be responsible. Colleagues, please take up jobs. And I'm putting 6358 again as a base and generally, colleagues. Every voice matters. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[18:00:18]] For 228 Decision taken. Next. Colleagues, there are only three left, three decrees please. 6359. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u125	It is proposed that the village of Dibrovka, in the region of Žitomir, be renamed the village of Dubrovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u126	No objections, colleagues? Voice to voice, please. 6359 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every vote, please vote, please support. [[18:01:02]] For 218. What's the question, colleagues? I see they were "against" and "restraint." Let me put it again, colleagues. So 6,359 as a base and as a whole. Don't leave the hall, don't let anyone out. Please on the basis of a total of 6359. Please vote, please support. Please support, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[18:01:44]] For 218. Next: 6360. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u127	It is proposed that the village of the Great Prices of the Kagarlic district of Kyiv Region be renamed the village of Veliki Prjeka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u128	No objections? Is everyone okay? Please support me, please vote 6360 as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[18:02:23]] For 214 Colleagues, I'll put the last one in. Please come into the hall and don't leave. Final Decree 6296. Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I, in the past, those who don't vote, are very important to the people, because they have a village written in the papers, a letter changed, and then there are many other problems in producing documents and so on. It's not as simple a question as some might think. So I would ask you to be responsible for this. The next decision is to establish the boundaries of the city of Ternopil. It is proposed that the coastline be set at 10,000 acres [2,000] and 37 acres [37 ha]. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u130	Yeah, that's not a name anymore?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u131	It's not a renaming.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u132	No, then I'm sorry, no, no. Colleagues, let's go back to renaming. Tell me where to go. It's biological. It's biological, it is. Colleagues, what's the license number?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u133	Order 5352 of the village of Padalka on Biological. It's the will of the people, and they have a biological record in their papers. And they have problems, it's not a simple question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u134	The number has been fixed? So, colleagues, there are voices in the hall. Let's just let everyone vote. I continue for 15 minutes, there are voices in the hall. Ask whoever's in the towers, we'll make those decisions right now. Colleagues, I'm putting 5352 on the ground, and in general, please support me, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. Please be supportive. [[18:04:42]] For 212 There are those in the hall and those in front and those in favor. What other chance does he have to put in? Sergei! Kagarlic district, 6360 Colleagues, what else can I put in?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u135	Let's get Dubrovek on. 6359, Dubrovek Dibrovka. They didn't, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u136	So 6,359 as a base and as a whole. Please vote, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u137	Zitomir district.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-23-m1.u138	Zitomir district. Please be supportive. [[18:05:33]] For 210 Colleagues, there's no unanimity in the room. I see it's part of the MPs. No, no, I see: the part is held up, the part is voted against, and the faction is yours. And that's why. Let's get you started. Colleagues, this has been a difficult but very productive day. Thank you. Sadly, we were unable to complete the day’s work, even though there was a chance. I think we'll get back to the rename. Well, at least three of them are accepted, and that's good, that's already a success, I'm sure. And I welcome everyone to such a productive day. Tomorrow will be, I hope, no less productive day. That is why I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. And so tomorrow, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall at 10 a.m. Thank you. Good-bye.
