ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we register? We'll wait for our young colleagues to arrive. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:03:21]] 366 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, just after the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, I visited Warsaw with a working visit, where we, together with the national deputies Oksana Jurinec and Jaroslav Dubnevich, participated in the Summit of the Heads of Parliaments of Central and Eastern Europe, held a meeting with the Speaker of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Marek Kuchczynski and Marshall of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Stanislav Karchevsky, held a number of other important meetings with the speaker of Georgia, the speaker of Moldova, Montenegro and Hungary. And we've agreed on closer cooperation within the "Majmora" of Central-Eastern Europe. And they all expressed their support for Ukraine in our fight against the Russian aggressor and gave the Ukraine greetings with the final receipt of the visa, and said that for all our neighbors it was also a very important day and an important decision. I also want to remind you that today is Crimean Tatar Deportation Day. Today, May 18, we mention the tragedy of the hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatars expelled from their homes by the Moscow occupation authorities. On May 18, 1944, KNVD’s cartels began deportation of the Crimean Tatar people to Crimea. In Ukraine alone, Crimean Tatars were granted real freedom and were able to return home. Today, May 18, 2017, history repeats itself in the occupied Crimea. But I believe we will free Crimea from Russian invaders, and I believe that the Crimean Tatar people will be back home in the free Ukrainian Crimea. And I propose today at 12 o'clock with all of Ukraine to honor the victims of the deportation of Crimean Tatars in 1944 for a moment of silence. And I also want to welcome everyone to Embroidery Day. I want to welcome all the Ukrainians to Embroidery Day, and it is a pleasure that our tradition on this day to come to Parliament in embroidery today also has its extension, and I want to welcome everyone and fellow national MPs. So we're moving on to the issues of order of the day. But it came to the fore. break. At 12 o'clock, 12 o'clock with all the Ukraine. I'm just saying in advance that at 12 o'clock there's going to be a general Ukrainian silence, and we're going to join her as parliamentarians as the country's highest legislative body. Before we move on to the agenda, I want to report that there's been a statement in the Presidium announcing a break from two factions: "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front". But the factions are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. And I invite you all to Mr. Chubarov's rostrum, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! The fourth anniversary of the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people on May 18, 1944, took place under the conditions of the Russian occupation of Crimea. The Crimean Tatar people, who, during the 23 years leading up to the Russian occupation, were in great difficulty returning to their homeland after almost half a century of exile, were once again in real danger. Since the occupation of the Crimean Peninsula and to this day, the Russian occupation regime has pursued a targeted repressive policy aimed at the physical imprinting of the Crimean Tatar people, the indigenous people of Crimea, beyond their historical homeland. In his manic desire to rid the Crimea of its native inhabitants and settle the peninsula with the Russians, Putin is demonstrating himself to be a true follower of Stalin, under whose command the Crimean Tatar people were subjected to total deportation from their historic homeland on May 18, 1944. The violent kidnapping and murder of young Crimean Tatars, the numerous attacks and searches in Crimean Tatar houses, the ban on the activities of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people and the prosecution of its members and public activists, the non-motivated mass detention of Muslims, both at home and in mosques, the ban on independent Crimean and electronic media is a conscious policy of the ethnocid of the Crimean Tatar people, carried out by the state authorities of the Russian Federation from the beginning of Russian military incursion and the temporary occupation of the Crimea. The pain of 1944 and the pain of 2014 not only brought us all together: the Ukrainians, the Crimean Tatars, the Ukrainians of other nationalities into a single political nation — but also requires us to take all measures to survive, save Ukraine, free Crimea, and finally to establish on that pernicious Crimean land a order that will fully meet the expectations of the Crimean Tatar people, Ukrainians, Russians, other people who love that land. Those who came there with weapons or moved after the occupation would leave. We have to do everything we can to make the horrors of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people, the Holocaust, the Holocaust, which has taken place on Ukrainian soil by the Nazis, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u4	I don't want it to happen again. We appreciate and are simply grateful to the Ukrainian nation for the support of the universe that we all receive. Now all of Crimea and not only the Crimean Tatars, the Ukrainians are all looking at Kiev. They look into the eyes of each of us, and they notice the sincerity or insincerity of each of us, what we think of the Crimea and how we see it in the future. So we are doing everything we can to finally make changes and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine in the coming months and thus transform the Crimean Autonomy in order to strengthen Ukrainianism on Crimean soil in order to finally take into account the right of the Crimean Tatar people to self - determination on their own land in order to effectively ensure the rights of all those living on that earth. I'm sure we can do this. At 12 o'clock today, a minute of silence all over Ukraine and many countries around the world. We are very grateful to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate. We're very grateful to all of the Ukrainian politics, at 6 p.m. we're all on the Maidan of Independence, and we're all showing the Crimean people who are trying to go out in the middle of the morning, we're lifting Ukrainian Crimean flags, we're showing them that we're supporting them here, that we're strengthening them here, that we're going out with them as soon as possible, and we're going out on the Crimean field there, in Simferopol and Bahchisarai. Praise the Crimean Tatar people! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u5	Our greatest honor will be to Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians -- to expel the Russian invader from Ukraine and free Crimea. And I'm sure it's only a matter of time before we get it. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And yesterday we passed, in fact, all the questions, but one of them we couldn't discuss and make a decision on. It's not complicated, it's also from yesterday's issue of protecting children's rights. And so I go to my colleagues, and it's the first thing we can do is get through it quickly, effectively, and finish the consideration of the block for the protection of children's rights. And I'm looking at a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of their number (5045). And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Short-term procedure. [[10:13:39]] For 132 So, colleagues, once again I invite everyone to take their seats. I want to remind you again, this is the only question we haven't been able to consider yesterday from the children's rights cluster. It is unifying, there is no political debate on it. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please take your jobs and support me. So, colleagues, I'm voting once again on a motion for a review of Law 5045 amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of reduced numbers. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please take part in the vote carefully. Please be supportive. [[10:14:51]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, Bill 5045 is designed to ensure the realization of the right to housing of internally displaced orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as of persons of their number at the place where they are taken to account. Article 52 of the Constitution stipulates that children are equal in their rights regardless of their origin. The custody and upbringing of orphans and children deprived of parental care rests on the state. Today, according to legislation, orphans and children deprived of parental care, and persons of their number are taken by the appropriate authorities of local self-government to the home account of their origin. In doing so, children and individuals of the specified category, i.e. internally displaced persons, cannot exercise their right to take up housing because their place of origin is a temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or an ATO area. As of January 1, 2017, the number of such children and persons who are internally displaced is over a thousand 648 persons, 342 of whom have reached the age of sixteen during 2014-2016 and have the right to take over the housing of citizens who need to improve housing conditions but cannot exercise this right. The proposed changes aimed at ensuring the State’s rights to those children who have reached the age of sixteen to be counted as internally displaced persons and to the social housing account at the place where they are taken into account. The adoption of this law will help strengthen the legal regulation of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as those of their number, who are forced displaced persons to account for internally displaced persons. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u7	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Sporis Ivan Dmitrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u8	Our question and Bill 5045 must be united today. We have in mind that today and embroidery day, and today we bow our heads to the patriots, to the Crimean Tatar people, I think we should think for the children and we should and the question should unite the entire hall. Our Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism has considered a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and the number of whom is presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is designed to ensure the realization of the right to housing of internally displaced orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as of persons of their number. The bill suggests that orphans and children deprived of parental care who have reached 16 years of age, as well as those of their number, are taken by the appropriate authorities of local self-government to take care of citizens who need to improve living conditions, including the place where internally displaced persons are counted, and are provided with extra housing at the place where internally displaced persons are settled. There is a point in the Chief Scientific and Expert Office to this bill, but during the committee's discussion, the committee supported the proposal on its adoption as a basis, because the issue of ensuring the realization of the right to housing of internally displaced orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as those of their number, needs an immediate solution. In preparing for second reading, the committee will do its utmost to discuss the bill today as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u10	As well as all the comments made by the GNEU, we will do everything we can to ensure that the bill meets today’s requirements for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u12	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please pass the word to Big Head of Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the committee, we ask you to adopt this bill as a basis to protect the rights of our children who are now forced to leave their homes in the East and are internally displaced persons. We understand that children who are deprived of parental care are the very vulnerable categories that require our special attention. We turn to all factions, regardless of political orientation, to support this bill and to support our displaced children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u14	Thank you. Yury's shoemaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u15	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the problem for Ukraine is very large in connection with the mass displacement of persons from military territory. Today, Ukraine has more than 2 million forced displaced persons. There are, by the way, very many underage children, as well as children deprived of parental care and orphans. They are facing more than housing problems today, food problems, and yesterday we passed the appropriate Law on Liberation. Feeding children in educational institutions. They face the issue of labour rights, they face the issue of property rights. And to this day, I am very sorry that the government cannot adopt a comprehensive bill that addresses issues of social adaptation, labour adaptation, educational adaptation, where their issues of property registration, civil status, would be resolved. As for us, such dotted laws have already been passed for almost three years each week by a single law. So this is a government failure. And the Radical Party faction in the Supreme Council is pointing out that the time has come for the government to adopt a comprehensive bill that will address all the issues of persons who are forced to move from the places of residence where military action is taking place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u16	Yuri Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! The opposition bloc supports this bill, because this bill corrects the injustices that unfortunately were created in relation to orphans, children deprived of parental care from the Donetsk region, Lugansk region. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of national MPs and government officials to a number of systemic problems in the work of the public authorities in ensuring the constitutional rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care. Yes, Ukraine has lost a systematic personalized accounting of orphans, children deprived of parental care. The Cabinet of Ministers has in fact imposed illegal restrictions on children's status as orphans, children deprived of parental care. In three years of anti-terrorist operations, the number of children who have been recognized by the State as orphans, children deprived of parental care, regardless of military activities, the poverty of families, has decreased by 18,000. At my request last year, the Ministry of Social Policy has restored the count of a thousand 797 orphans, children deprived of parental care who have been unjustifiably removed. More than a thousand orphans still need their rights protected, and the bill has been restored. Regrettably, idleness has led thousands of children today to fail to receive the protection guaranteed by the State. And another dangerous trend. In recent years, the number of orphans who have begun to be raised in the form of family education has decreased considerably. More than double the number of foster families, family - type children, and children who received a father and mother have been reduced. Instead, the number of citizens has increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u18	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u19	The number of citizens has increased, which is why they want to take a child. That's why we demand the government's systematic approach to ensuring the constitutional rights of an orphan child, a child without parental care.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u20	Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, this is about counting on the apartment count and the social housing of such children, whose place of residence remains the occupied portion of Donbas. Under the existing law, they can only be placed there, i.e. in temporarily occupied areas. Instead, the proposed changes will allow these children to be taken into account and in the real region of life. Compared to the total number of displaced children, orphans among them are not that many, about one and a half thousand. However, I would like to point out that this is the most vulnerable category of people who need to be looked after by the State. Without the proper provision of decent living conditions, without help in adapting to a new place of residence, it is extremely difficult for them to realize themselves in life. At the same time, they are indispensable members of Ukrainian society. And we must take immediate care of their fate. Thus, when listening to previous speakers, it is a pleasure for all to support the adoption of this law. That's why the Peter Dust Block faction is going to vote and call for everyone to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u22	Thank you. And, fellows, now will be Romanov's closing statement. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now we're going to move on to making a decision. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. And one minute, Romanova, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank all those deputies who supported yesterday's bill on the protection of children's housing rights in court disputes. In order for a representative of the custody and care bodies to participate in a judicial session. And secondly, I would like to point out that when we passed this law, we took into account that only the internally displaced are only families today registered for a million two hundred. So it's not even hundreds of thousands. To date, a million two hundred thousand families have been deprived of State guarantees. They did not want to stay or go and seek fate in another country. They want to remain citizens of Ukraine. So I urge everyone to go back to the hall, mobilize, of course, vote for this necessary bill and look at all these problems in a comprehensive way, solve one bill of internally displaced persons. For them to be protected by this state, where they remained, and where they continue to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u24	Thank you. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We take up jobs, we vote. I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of their number (No.5045) on the basis of, just on the basis of, colleagues. Those who may have warnings may be further developed into second readings. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:28:33]] For 254 Decision taken. And I want a committee of fruitful work for second reading. Colleagues, as we agreed, we now have a question of inclusion in the agenda. All the questions that are proposed to be included in the agenda have been noted in advance. So I hope the factions are determined by the vote, but if there's any need for further information, I'll be able to. So, my colleagues, I'm going to call the bill, and then I'm going to put it to the vote. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, it's just the inclusion in the agenda of the session, not for consideration today, but just so that the committees can consider it. First law. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving Corporate Governance of Legal Persons, Shareholder (No. 6428). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. [[10:29:59]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The next draft of the Extractive Industries Transparency Act (No. 6229) is the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. 6229. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, it's just the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[10:30:39]] For 213 Is there any point in putting it again? Please, take your seats, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Once again, I put to the vote the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Industries (No. 6229). And I emphasize, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[10:31:25]] For the 220. Let's get those that were close, I'll put them on the end. Next up, colleagues. This bill amending article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules (6281) is about canceling the break at 12.00-12.30. The bill, which was introduced from the initiative of committee heads, is intended only for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Let's mobilise, we've talked about this a long time ago, that it can increase the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I ask you to support its inclusion in the agenda of the day session, only in the order of the day session. So, please vote, please support 6281. Please vote. Let's make Parliament more effective. [[10:32:25]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the protection of the rights of owners (users) of houses of residence (No. 6424). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[10:33:05]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we now have a cluster of health issues, and from that point on, I've had a meeting with the leadership of the Petra Poroshenko Bloc. Obviously, the faction depends to a large extent on the position of inclusion in the agenda of the session and has been asked to give the floor to explain the position of the largest faction, and so has the committee. Let's exchange thoughts, okay, okay. From BPP, please turn on the microphone, one minute, yes, one minute. Then, well, I'll give all the factions a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u25	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, indeed, the question of the adoption of medical reform is one of the key issues to be considered by the Supreme Council of this calling. We must do all of this so perfectly, so weighed that there is no question for us, as with the national MPs, from our constituents. We started this process with the adoption of Law 2309 by a co-worker who voted in the hall and consolidated 288 votes. This is a big step for the autonomy of our medical institutions, a big step towards the introduction of the concept of health care. It was these four laws, which were passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, that they should develop and continue what they were, the first pieces of reform that we started and voted in this room. Sadly, though, these laws will not pass through the hall as they are today. Since there is no possibility of introducing an alternative, we will simply collapse these important laws into the agenda of the committees. So asking our faction to create a working group to remake these laws into labor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u26	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u27	To work out these laws in the working group and to replace the subjects, to bring them in exactly two or three weeks before June 6 as joint, consolidated laws that will unite the hall and become the foundation of the medical reform that will take place in the state of Ukraine. Thank you very much, and please don't include this particular motive right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u29	Procrastination with medical reform is like death. This area of Ukrainian social and economics is the most feared and killer. Ask your relatives, acquaintances, doctors, chief physicians, how many work - age people die each year, men of working age from myocardial infarctions simply because quality medical care is not available. Procrastination is a crime. That is why it must be voted on today. It is generally surprising that factions of the coalition, factions of the coalition cannot agree with the Cabinet of Ministers on how it should be. This is a pharmaceutical mafia order that wants to stop the real reform of Ukrainian medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u30	Who else is it from the factions? Storm, Opposition Block, one minute. Then it's easy, one minute. Who's it gonna be? Litwin. I'll give it to you, colleagues, don't worry. It's Igor Storm, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Today, we are proposing four bills that are supposed to be implemented and implemented by the health reform in Ukraine. I must say that they have no bearing on the reform of the health system. We are making every effort for the coalition to present a plan, a strategy, a concept for the development of a national health system. Not the four bills that will bring about today and the poor medicine that really needs to be changed, and they will, in general today, place them at the brink of survival and those who work in health institutions and those who come for these services. The question needs to be asked in another. You are all, the coalition, 300 people today who are trying to share the opposition and power you have taken responsibility for the state of health, and I have a question for you: Please tell me, where is the Minister of Health? You are all in favour of making changes, putting in the office of a minister of health, and taking responsibility for the situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u32	Please, it's Litwin's Will of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u33	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I propose that we include legislation on health care in the agenda so that we can address the disastrous health situation in Ukraine. When considering these issues, ask the minister to see if he is in possession of the catastrophic problems that have gripped the whole country today in this key area of our lives. And after we draw attention to both the Cabinet of Ministers and, in fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we'll go over the issues and assessments of these bills that are proposed. I can see that these bills have been introduced to update the problem that screams. Let's vote for inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u34	From "The Fatherland" Kugel or Dubil? Double. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u35	The question of medicine is convinced that this is the main issue in our country today. And medical reform is the main one, one of the major reforms to be made. And so it's very nice that the whole room is paying attention today. Unfortunately, why is this happening to these bills? Because these laws today do not complete the course of open public policy. After Pete Cox's mission, we need to understand that all laws should be discussed at the level of public organizations, at the level of experts, medical professionals, and then on the committee. to the Supreme Council to vote on them. Today we can't resolve the issue of medical reform by individual laws, so we need, we need, we need, we support the creation of a working group and we want these laws to take a full course in public policy and then the hall will be consolidated around the laws that are the main ones on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u36	Thank you. So, colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Baby, okay, okay. First Baby, I'm sorry, then Chop-chop. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u37	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For everyone in Ukraine, it is obvious that we need a medical reform that is real, not an imitation like a pension reform, like a land reform that is being implemented by today's authorities. Because Ukrainians only die because they cannot receive timely medical care. Because when you go to the hospital, you have to take the last one out of the house to heal yourself or perform a basic surgery. But what in the sense of authority is medical reform? This is the closure of hospitals, this is a reduction, in line with the new Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, of the number of health workers. As a result, people will be deprived of even the minimal medical care available today. That's why the Radical Party faction, our team, is for medical reform, but the purpose of medical reform is to be one: to be able to provide medical services and its quality. Not like today, the mechanical closure of hospitals and in fact people are deprived of treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u38	Thank you. And the final speech, Shipko, one minute. And, colleagues, please come into the hall now, and we'll vote now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u39	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Rebirth Party Group supports medical reforms in the country, but we support transparent reforms, not culinary reforms. And if we want to reform medicine and make it fair, I want to tell you that enough experiments on the Ukrainian people. Today, we were asked how many Ukrainians disappear each year. I'll tell you: 500,000, 2 million years from now. We need medical reform, we need justice for both doctors and patients, but we don't do what we do -- and no one knows, and we haven't seen it on the committee. We're for creating a task force, we're for listening to all the experts. And we're here to prevent experiments on the Ukrainian people. For an honest, transparent medical reform, there's a group of rebirth factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. We exchanged thoughts on health - care reform. And I'm sure this is one of the most important reforms in the order of the day of the Ukrainian state. And I support the initiatives taken by the government and the responsibility of the minister. But of course, the room has to be decided by voting right now, and then we'll think about how to move on. So I put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session, except for inclusion, the draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Services (6327 and 6327-1). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, only the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:43:58]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Next: The draft Act on Additional State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Services to Persons Protecting Independence, Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine in the ATO and Ensuring Its Implementation (6328) and 6328-1. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, except for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:44:41]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (6329, 6329-1). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[10:45:10]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (6347 and 6347-1). Please be supportive. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[10:45:44]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law on Medical Devices (2162). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Vote. [[10:46:14]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law on the Organization of Health Care for the Population in Ukraine (4456). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[10:46:41]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Next: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Development of the Software Industry to develop three-year plans to support the development of the software industry. We've already completed the health block, and here are the last three questions, they're already from other spheres. So please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 6160 session. Please vote. [[10:47:29]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Markets (for separating natural monopolies from adjacent markets) (No. 6265). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. [[10:48:02]] For-166 The decision is not made. And the last. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Status Act and some other Ukrainian legislation on decentralization and access to citizens of administrative services in the area of civil registration (No. 6150). Please vote, please support. [[10:48:44]] For 199 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, we had this bill, and we literally didn't have enough votes. This is the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas. And that will be our last vote on this block. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. We didn't have enough votes. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (No. 6229). Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's have at least one positive vote. Please support, we vote. [[10:49:49]] For 214 Let me put it again, colleagues. But this will be the last time. So I'm voting once again on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (6229). Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:50:25]] For 222 Colleagues, come on. We're having a tough time with this block today. We'll have a plenary next week. I think we'll be more prepared to deal with these issues. Colleagues, they've finished this block. We're going to have a project called Regulation (5,350). But before that, I have to read out a statement that came to the fore on the requirement of MP factions to declare a recess. From the Radical Party faction, Oleg, what's the second faction? And "self-help," and they're ready to switch to a break from the rostrum. And I give the word to Oleg Lazko. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u41	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team, the Radical Party faction, we want to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to a new affair prepared by the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market. As you will recall, after more than a month ago, the NCREKP launched a subscription for gas counters, in fact, so that every Ukrainian family would pay the gas oligarchs, Firtasch, Ljovcken, and Boyka tens of billions of dollars a year in their pockets, millions of people would rise. We've all made it together, and this decision has been overturned. According to our information, the NCRECR prepares a new decision to reintroduce subscription. We demand that the government remove their filthy hands from the pockets of Ukrainians. Stop robbing people! We demand that the state and national gas distribution networks, which have been used by the Firtash, Ljovczyn and Boyko oligarchs free of charge for many years, be restored to state administration. With this money, they finance anti-Ukrainian activities in Ukraine, and for this money, they finance Separatist Inter, and for this money, they bribe the government. For three years, there is no Yanuković gang, and government gas distribution networks are in their administration and are being paid by Ukrainians for their use. The price for the gas of 7,000 dollars per thousand cubes is our price for corruption, for the corruption of the current power and the oligarchus of Firtas, Ljovcín and Boyk. We demand that the government immediately decide to return to the State Administration the gas distribution networks that belong to the Ukrainian people. It is enough that the oligarchs who charge their pockets at Yanukovich continue to do the same today. By the way, President Yanukovic's case of treason is pending today at the Obolonian Court of Kiev. I have a simple question: Why is Yanukovich the only judge? Why is it that Boyka, who stole half a billion dollars in surpluses, is not judged? Why isn't the Gaulier Yanukovich Ljovczyn, who's involved in Janukovich's gang's crimes on trial? Why are they sitting in Parliament and Yanukovic running? I think it's unfair. So yesterday, I signed a letter to the President of the United States, to the European Commission about the imposition of personal sanctions against Ljockin and Boyk, who are the pillars of the Yanukovic regime, which are responsible for the killing of people in Midan, for the resolution of the war in Ukraine. Lewochkin, Boyko, and Firtash must answer as well as Yanukovich. And we'll get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u42	Colleagues, the next issue in the agenda, is the draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities (No. 5350). I will now put to the vote the summary procedure. Please come into the hall, please take your jobs. And, colleagues, on occasion, I would like to report that today is the birthday of our colleague Natalia Yuriovna Royal. Let's say hello to our colleague. And I'm voting on the motion for a brief motion for draft regulation 5350. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:55:29]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Important, one of the basic questions for today, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! You will have before you a draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities (No. 5350). The purpose and purpose of the decision is to impose personal sanctions on persons who pose real potential threats to national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, contributing to terrorist activities. The decision is made. First. To endorse the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine's proposal to apply personal sanctions for creating real, potential threats to national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, promoting terrorist activities. The other one. After taking effect by the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the application of sanctions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs inform the competent authorities of the European Union, the United States and other States with a view to considering the implementation of similar sanctions. Third. Invite the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to develop an order to ensure the application of special economic and other restrictive measures. This decision concerns President Janukovic and a number of former officials from his immediate environment, who are now in almost full stock in Russia, in a country whose mercenaries are killing our boys. These individuals are involved in the bloodbath of peaceful rallyers and their being shot down during the Dignity Revolution and are now being declared international and interstate searches, since they are hiding from the authorities of pretrial investigation. I support the initiative of our colleagues from the Radical Party to apply personal sanctions to the immediate surroundings of Yanukovic. And today, when the President is being tried, who betrayed the state, we need to support this decision in the hall, in the end, to impose personal sanctions against Janukovic's environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u44	Thank you. A representative of the National Security and Defence Committee Vinnik is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u45	Good morning, dear fellows. Welcome to the festivals. You know, really, the question of the application of sanctions to Yanukovitch and his environment, which led to the killing of Maidan, which has led to the occupation of certain territories that so far finance terrorist activities, is probably somewhat overgrown and, in this case, is the responsibility of the Supreme Council. Note, colleagues, that other authorities of the State would have made much progress in the issue of the punishment of Yanukovic and his environment. Today, a trial is under way where the State's indictment is supported by the Attorney General's Office under the leadership of Yuri Lucenka for sentencing Yanukovic for treason. Already $1.5 billion by Yanuković, the money, is in the state budget provided by the Attorney General’s Office. But the Supreme Council at the moment, I think, in this case, it's quite far behind. So I hope that today, at least in part, we will be able to remedy this situation. We propose to adopt a draft Ordinance on the application of personal economic sanctions in relation to a number of persons entering the immediate surroundings of Yanukovic. The committee at its meeting considered this issue, almost unanimously, with the exception of Mr. Ljovczyn, who is a representative of the criminal regime, supported this idea proposed by Parliamentary Collegiates. So we would now like to consider this draft decree, to accept it as a whole. After that, the National Security Council will have legitimate grounds on the basis of the Sanctions Act to apply this policy, which will be followed by a decision. By order of President Prashenko. I hope that, at last, the appropriate people will never be released to the countries of Europe, and they will block the villa in Monaco. And it will, you know, quietly, quietly resume justice, and everyone will get a decent punishment, a punishment for the crimes that have led to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Let's vote in private.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. High Sergei, People's Front, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It must be said that this bill of democratic factions of Parliament have been trying to adopt not for the first month. As we know, as you all know, almost all of the Ukrainian democratic patriotic factions of our Supreme Council signed this bill, the heads of these factions. It seems to me that when we see what is happening in Ukraine, when we see that sometimes we lack the political will to persecute the people of the Yanukovitch gang and the people who are responsible for Russia's aggression, who helped Russia to evade the Crimea, to dissuade Donbas, in the war against Russia, whose conscience was 10,000 lives of Ukrainians. When some and some branches of authority may be passive, when the Attorney General’s Office investigates in just three years, thank God and thank Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko for investigating and bringing the case against Yanukovic to trial. The Supreme Council, as the political highest organ of the state, the Supreme Council, which is in the parliamentary-presidential republic of the highest political body, should say its political position after the persecution of the Yanukovich gang, after the persecution of those who helped Putin in the war against Ukraine. It's our face that's being solved today. We must prove to the Ukrainian people that we can make responsible political decisions, that we can consolidate for justice and for bringing Yanukovic and his gang to justice. That's why I call on everyone to vote in favour, just for this decree! Let us move to persecution not only by Yanukovitch but also by Johnishchenka, but also by Klimenko and all the other bastards who robbed our country under the past regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u48	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Andry Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u49	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Once upon a time, everyone is aware of the wisdom that the absence of punishment for crime gives rise to new crimes. We, the honourable citizens, have seen the criminals of the Yanukovic regime, those who are responsible for the blood spilled during Maidan -- that's Ljowczyn, that's Boyko, that's Wilkull, that's Skork -- instead of sitting in prison, they're sitting, unfortunately, in this room and embarrassing the Ukrainian Parliament. We see all the consequences of not being punished. We saw it all on May 9th, when they hired the Aunt Army, when they parasited on the feelings of a part of the elderly population and were beaten, including the heroes of this war, was spared -- sorry! – the memory of those who fought during World War II, and the people for whom this day is a holiday have ruined them with this disgrace, this provocation that they were doing in Dniepri, Odessa, here in Kiev. The names of these people are popularly known as Boyko, this is Ljowczyn, this is Wilkul, this is Skork. What do we see now? It's the fourth year of war. They never got any punishment. They continue to carry out the Kremlin's plan here, and they're doing it in an open-ended, open-ended, subversive anti-Ukrainian activity. They're jamming people's heads through their Separatist "Inter" through "Strana.IN.UA" through other lying sites, trying to manipulate consciousness. They're doing Putin's work here today, they're doing the Kremlin's work here. Here comes Mr. Skorik, he's in prison to sit with Ljovczyn, Boyk, Firtash, and Vilkul, because these people are specifically here now Skork is involved, and Attorney General Lucenko has claimed it, but because Skork is voting with the majority, he's avoiding punishment. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u50	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u51	We've just seen, fellow dignitaries, how all these regional misdemeanors still have the nerve to ask that you give them another word to answer. So, I emphasize, on September 7th last year, Attorney General Yuri Lucenko made a statement that there is evidence that the speed of beating up journalists and activists in Odessa on February 23rd. Did Skorak have any responsibility? No, because he's voting with the majority, he's voting for dragon Lucenke's amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. Criminals like Skork, like Ljowczyn, like Boyko, like Wilkul should.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u52	Thank you. One minute of the lineup, Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u53	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I'd like to address everyone in this room to stop saying provocative things in this room. Because if a person is a criminal, I agree, he should be in prison. If a person is innocent, I believe that even from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, even national deputies should not lie. I think that the national MPs who are gathered in this room are the main task of bringing society together. If we keep looking for non-existent enemies in the middle of our society, if we don't take steps to really make Ukraine really the only thing that really works in Ukraine is the law one for all, not one for the coalition, but the other for the opposition, when constant pressure and persecution are exerted, but for all. I believe that then Ukraine will indeed be the only one, then Ukraine will regain territorial integrity, then Ukraine will regain real economic and political independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u54	Please, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say, first of all, that we should be working in the law. For those who have prepared this draft decree, I would like to send to the 1644 Sanctions Act. Part two of article 1 of this Law provides that no one has the right to impose personal sanctions on his citizens, Ukraine. Read, it is written, and read this law in Russian, and read it in English. And that's why what comes in here, well, it's just a miracle: they bring in, they prove themselves to be almost enoresis of the stand, blaming people for what? - without a conviction. I'm going to tell you, it's such a gnarl about its citizens, which today appears in this room, on this embroidery day, and it shows that this disgraceful ideology is based on the activities of frontalists in the division of the nation. Take the street and see the poor Orthodox who pray for our health and our nation. What do we have? And that's why I want us to look at the letters of the law so that we can work in the legal field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u56	Colleagues, two speeches will be followed by a vote. Three performances, yes. But there will be a vote in five minutes, and please invite the deputies into the hall, prepare for the vote. Now it's Shepherd Taras Timothyovich. Sobolen Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u57	Self-help welcomes the willingness of most members of the Supreme Council to impose personal sanctions on Janukovic's environment for the fourth year after his escape. We think it's very important to move on. First, add to this list the list of people who played an important role in it and continue to play it now. We're talking about representatives of the Yanukovich team, like Alexander Wilkul or Gennady Kernes. About the leaders of Yanukovich's team, such as Sergey Ljowochkin, such as Viktor Medvedchuk, such as Rinat Ahmedov. They have to be on this list. The other one. Parliament must be consistent and move on. We still haven't recognized DNR and LNR as terrorist organizations. This decision has to be made, because this is the challenge of today, this is the problem of the prosecutor's office today, this is the problem of the courts today. The Law on Terrorist Organizations should be adopted as soon as possible. And the third. The occupation, the war that was fought by those who fled, and those who remained, must also find a solution in this room. The occupied territories are to be recognized as occupied, and the aggressor is the country that attacked our land as an aggressor. We welcome the beginning of Parliament's movement along this path.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u58	Two other factions did not have a performance. Pottery, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u59	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenk's Block. The Peter Prashenko faction has always supported, demanded and done everything possible to prosecute those who brought misery to Ukrainian land, all those who are responsible for the thousands of Ukrainian deaths, all those who are guilty of the annexation of the Crimea which we today mention on the anniversary of the deportation of the Crimean people, in which the Ukrainians are destroyed, the Crimean Tatars, all those who resist the policies of Stalin and Putin, which he is leading today, all those who are guilty of what is happening on Donbass. During the days of the National Security and Defence Council, Ukraine decided on personal sanctions against more than a thousand Russian individuals and legal entities. But apart from the enemy outside, much more. In fact, the enemy inside is dangerous. And Janukovic and his immediate surroundings are the enemies of Ukraine who are to be punished for their activities. So we think that this list might be extended, and there's still a lot of nicknames there. But as a first step.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u60	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u61	But as a first step towards all those who are responsible for what is happening in Ukraine today, we need to support this decision and introduce personal sanctions against Yanukovic, Ivanyushtenka, Kluva and other supporters who have made the trouble that is now taking place in Ukraine possible. I ask everyone to support this decision. The people of Ukraine have long given their judgment, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u62	Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I will begin immediately with the faction of "The Fatherland" supporting this draft decision. But one thing surprises us. It hasn't been three years since the RNB and the President were born with sanctions against Russian companies, banks that financed terror against Ukraine. It has not been three years since Parliament will now recommend that the MPO and the President consider personal sanctions. Therefore, in support of this decision, we feel that this list should be clearly extended. And when the Attorney General deliberately missed the charges against Yuri Ivanyushchenk, who is now walking quietly around Monaco, we must include them. When Ahmeth walks peacefully around the world and in Ukraine, we must include it. And we have to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, and the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activity (No. 5350). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! We'll impose sanctions against the Janukovic environment! Colleagues, please support. Please vote. [[11:14:41]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 65, People's Front – 65, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 0. Colleagues, I'll be right back. And I'm asking you to mobilize. Now I'm going to make an offer to go back to consideration 5350. And, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the Bill 5350 on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote and please support me, colleagues, for the offer to return to 5350. Please mobilize and vote. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:15:57]] For 214 Colleagues, I see, people are coming in, let me put it again. Please invite the deputies to the Chamber. Invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, I'm putting the proposal to the vote again because I don't fully understand the logic of those who don't vote, the proposal to go back to voting for the draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activity (No. 5350). Please vote. Please be supportive. For coming back now, for coming back. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:17:06]] For 206 Unfortunately, there are no votes. The decree is rejected. Let's go. Although I say I don't understand how this can happen when the Ukrainian Parliament proposes to impose sanctions against the highest leadership of Yanukovic, who have destroyed all of us Ukrainian citizens and who have staged a war against Ukraine, I don't understand it as the head of Parliament. My colleagues, we'll work together, we'll give a new option. Colleagues, let's move on to an agrarian policy block, a block that's been prepared by a committee for a long time. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to stay put, because the first question that the committee is proposing is a very short question, there's no right, I'm asking you to stay put. And we're moving on to the first issue of agrarian politics. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of agricultural insurance with State support (to clarify certain terms and concepts) (No 4570) (this is second reading). And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Mr. Alexander Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On February 21st, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in its first reading a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Insurance with State Support (to clarify certain terms and concepts) (registration number 4570, from 04.05. In 2016. During the drafting of the bill's committee for second reading under the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was no proposal or amendment to the bill. The Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations considered the bill at its meeting on March 14 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it in a second reading and as a whole as a law. The bill is strictly technical and removes the legal conflict in the interpretation of individual legislative terms. The bill provides for the introduction of specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of agricultural insurance with State support in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Fisheries, Industrial Fisheries and the Protection of Water Bioresources. This will enable the agricultural producer of the fish industry to take advantage of the possibility of insurance protection of its assets in the event of insurance cases and will ensure the stability of the financial situation of the producers in the event of loss, loss or damage to the insured property due to any adverse events. In view of the above, I ask that the draft Law be supported by registration number 4570 in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, there's no right to the law. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall. I'm asking you to take jobs, get ready to vote, we're actually going straight to making a decision, there's no adjustment. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Characteristics of Agricultural Insurance with State Support (for the clarification of certain terms and concepts) (number 4570) on the second reading and in general. Colleagues, please. Don't stand still, not all are in places, not all are yet ready to vote. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, we move on to the adoption of the law in the second reading. Take your seats, we'll go to the vote. So 4,570 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, this is a harmonized bill, please support, please support, we vote. [[11:22:14]] For 237 Decision taken. The law is passed. The next question, one of the most important, actually, in the agrarian policy block is 0906, which we've been going to for a very long time, and today we're going to be able to look at it. It's huge, but I hope we can consider it and make a decision. This is a draft of the Law on State Control, which is carried out in order to verify that legislation is consistent with the safety and quality of food and feed. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on agricultural policy, Jurczyn Petr Vasilovich, please. Please report the microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u67	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your view is proposed, prepared for rereading, the draft Ukrainian Law on State Control, which is carried out in order to verify the conformity of legislation on the safety and quality of food and feed, animal health and welfare (registration number 0906), approved by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Today, there are at least three serious reasons why this law is essential in Ukraine? First, we need to protect consumers from dangerous food. Today, the existing system of safety and food and nutrition control is ineffective. This is evidenced by the mass food poisoning of our fellow citizens, including children who have taken place in recent times. Thus, the adoption of this bill will solve the problem. Secondly, the adoption of Bill 0906 will allow for significant progress in meeting our obligations under the EU Association Agreement. Thirdly, the adoption of the bill will allow you to build a system of food and feed safety checks that will be equivalent to the European system. This will remove restrictions on exports of domestic food and feed to the European Union and thus increase export opportunities for the Ukrainian producer. In view of this, the main achievement of the bill is that it will also allow for a European control system that will protect every consumer from dangerous food. It will also create an additional incentive for the development of an agri-industrial complex. This bill is based on these principles: the functions of a state control organization are merged within one competent authority of the State Food Service. State control covers the entire food chain and operates according to the principle of rope-to-table. Control is a risk that is more likely and more often tested than not. Thus, 313 amendments were introduced and considered during the drafting of the bill, including 111, and 98, partially 72, were rejected. A significant number is also included.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u68	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u69	the expert management. So I would like to stress separately that this bill has received a positive assessment of the representation of the European Union in Ukraine. It is also supported by the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the State Food Service of Ukraine. Thus, the amended bill was discussed at a committee meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a law in a second reading and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the amendments to this bill as well. We're going after the repairs, Mrs. Kugel. As reported by the committee, almost all the amendments are taken into account, and we are only following unaccounted for. 9th Lechchenka, do you insist? Nine! Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u71	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The most important point to this bill is the introduction of a central executive body, which implements public policy in the area of safety and individual indicators of food quality and veterinary medicine, giving legal and natural persons a private right to exercise individual measures of State control. Such an approach entails great corrupt risks and can lead to homelessness and contravene the State’s monopoly on the exercise of authority. I think it's a direct violation of the Constitution, where it's clearly stated who we're dealing with, in fact, in Ukraine. the functions of the State. You know, this is another example of how in this room this office of the Supreme Council, with every new bill, is quietly privatizing, in fact, the state, handing over the functions of the state to private individuals either directly or indirectly. I have a number of amendments on this subject. This is the first amendment on this subject that proposes to exclude the terminological apparatus from terms such as "authorized laboratories", "authorized accredited laboratories", "authorized veterinarian".
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u72	A lot of changes. Vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't, Alexandra Volodymyr! We have a 9th amendment, and now we're putting her to the vote for Lechchenk's insistence. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, everyone can see that the committee rejected this amendment, so Levchenko took it. [[11:28:35]] For-84 She was not supported by the hall. 19th, Bakulenko, don't insist. We're moving on. [[B in m in s a l in]] It'll be fixed, you say. There's no record of what you're saying. The next amendment is the 70th, Lechchenka. Are you insisting? Please! I now announced Lechchenka in the '70s, then I will return to you, to what you insist. Please, 70th Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u73	Madam Chairman, it's about 38 now, the 38th. The table says it's partially accounted for, in fact, it's not included at all. The fact is that the provisions of the bill on the possibility of State control by authorized individuals of private law are such that they conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and contain significant corruption risks. It follows from articles 5 and 19 of the Constitution that authority is exercised by the people directly through the authorities and local authorities. At the same time, the authorities and local authorities and their officials are obliged to act only on the basis of their powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Thus, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the right to exercise State control over individuals in private law — what is proposed in this bill. So once again, I ask this room to listen to the voice of the mind and not privatize the state with what you've been doing for the past two years. Please support your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u74	Parliamentary Levchenk is subject to amendment 38, which the committee partly took into account. Please be supportive. [[11:30:20.]] For-78 No votes. Alexander Volodymyrna, what kind of correction did you want? Please turn on Mrs. Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u75	Amendment 32. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. I want to use my right, I made a lot of amendments, and I want to thank the committee, and I want to show you an example. If you want to draft a bill, you're working and you didn't want to put the bill through a knee that had really corrupt risks. In this case, almost all of our changes are done. We've taken down the corruption risks and put out a system that's very necessary, state control of the veterinary service and that our food-producing people have the ability to adapt to the European Union. I believe that this law can be voted on in a second reading. Don't let me do any more of my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Alexander Volodymyr. Your amendment is partially accounted for. You insist on voting. I also remind my colleagues that article 120 of the Rules gives the right to give the floor only to those deputies whose amendments are not taken into account. Those who are counted have no such right, or those who place their bets on confirmation. Then there's amendment number 70, People's Deputy Levchenk. Are you insisting? Please, Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u77	Lechenko, Freedom. 223 District, city of Kiev. Once again, I'm forced to draw attention, I see that the hall is barely listening, so I'm drawing the attention of our radio audiences and television viewers to what's going on in the Supreme Council right now. One of the functions of the State is now being proposed -- what is involved in the relevant control -- to hand over to individuals of private rights. In fact, this is another step towards the privatization of the state. We have already taken such steps in many areas. I see that with every new bill, these spheres are expanding. Instead of doing its job directly, instead of working to improve the lives of most Ukrainians, the authorities simply give up their powers and engage in basic kleptocracy. I ask you to make this amendment the same, please, and please support this amendment. Because it's unacceptable, and I'm stressing once again, it's a violation of the Constitution when it's proposed to hand over the functions of the State to individuals of private law. This is forbidden according to the Ukrainian Constitution, so far in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we are now putting to the vote Amendment 70, Mr. Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Alexander Volodymyr, I can't give you my word. Well, the committee turned her down. Please identify the hall. Hall, identify yourself, please. [[11:33:18]] Z-62 Thank you. The next 108 amendments, People's Deputy Levchenka. Are you insisting, Levchenka? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u79	I insist. Your honor, the presiding officer, in order to. I see that the amendments do not go through, obviously I see that there is no desire to listen, in fact, to the voice of reason and to the rule of law. I'd like that. I'm going to announce a series of amendments on the same subject. Mrs. Irina! Mrs. Irina, I announce a series of amendments on the same subject, from the same subject matter, to put them on the same page by one vote. So please give me, if the time goes up, I ask you to give me more. So this is about Amendment 108, Amendment 110, Amendment 114, Amendment 132, Amendment 155 and Amendment 240. 240, 241, 243, 261, 264.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u80	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u81	265, 311, 450, 451. Please make all these amendments, and I ask you to vote for them. I'm stressing again why. They relate to compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not have the right of the Supreme Council to delegate to individuals of private rights the function of the State. Especially in such sensitive areas as food quality control and veterinary medicine. Please support my corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u82	Dear colleague, I want to thank you for your constructive position. Thank you very much. And we are now following the proposal of the People's Deputy Levchenk, who has tabled a number of amendments to the bill, which have been rejected or partly considered by the committee, at his request. Colleagues, so who's in favour of the 108th amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[11:35:46]] For-54 Next. 110th Amendment of People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[11:36:04]] For-58 The next 114th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[11:36:22]] For-58 Next. 132th Amendment of People's Deputy Levchenk, rejected by the committee, please identify yourself. [[11:36:39]] For-51 The next 155 was the amendment of the Levchenk People’s Deputy, and the committee rejected it. Please make up your mind. [[11:36:57]] For-47 Colleagues, the next 240 amendments of the Levchenk People’s Deputy, rejected it. Please make up your mind. [[11:37:18]] For-50 The next 241 amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. And the committee rejected her. Please make up your mind. [[11:37:37]] For-47 The next 241 amendment of the National Deputy Levchenk, rejected by the Committee. And I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[11:37:58]] For-55 The next 243 amendment of the Levchenk People’s Deputy, which was rejected by the Committee. I'm asking you to make up your mind. 243, please. [[11:38:21]] For-52 The next 261 amendment was rejected by the committee. This is the national MP, Levchenka. Please make up your mind. [[11:38:40]] For-60 The next 265 amendment of the People’s Deputy Levchenk was rejected by the committee. Please make up your mind. [[11:38:59]] For-49 Next: 311 amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Please make up your mind. The committee turned her down. [[11:39:20]] For-47 Next. 450 amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[11:39:41]] For-53 And the last amendment. 451st People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. But I'm asking you to identify the session room. [[11:40:02]] For-43 Dear Mr. Yuri, your amendments have not been made to the required number of votes. At the same time, we sincerely thank you for your active legislative work, your careful study of all the bills and your constructive position today. Dear colleagues! Are there still national deputies who have amended and insist that we put them to the vote? Last but not least, Levchenko insists. Please, Mr. Lewchenko, on whom do you insist the amendment? Levchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u83	Levchenko, Levchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is my last amendment No. 470. I would just like to point out before we go to the vote in general for this bill. I hope these deputies, who have voted in particular for my amendments on this subject. In particular, you know, I, uh, see, there's the whole hall almost in the embroidery. Yeah, everybody's wearing embroidery, everybody's such big patriots. But in the past, Yanukovich’s decision was broken. Here's the question. Why wear these embroidery? Why don't you take those embroidery off of people? And now it's proposed to privatize the state, then privatize the state. Yeah? You know, society, it's totally non-binding stuff. It's a violation of the Constitution. And I'm sorry that more than 50 deputies in this Supreme Council, even that's all they're not even listening to, but only about 50 people. That's why I'm talking to our voters who are watching us. Please, people who are good, look, listen, and draw conclusions from what is happening in this terrarium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Now, a minute, I have to follow the Rules. Lechenko insists that the room vote for amendment 470, which the committee rejected. Please make up your mind. And I will remind you that the halls that the presiding officer may place and give the microphone, the word in accordance with article 122, are only for those deputies whose amendments are rejected. Do you have any rejections? There are no changes rejected. Therefore, only Levchenko and please return to the session room all colleagues, we will accept the bill in second reading. We'll give you the final word. Please, 470 revisions. Please, colleagues. Now 470 repairs to Lechchenka. [[11:42:28]] For-60 I didn't get the necessary amount. 464. Mrs. Kugel insists that she was included in part. Please, Mrs. Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u85	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to say that I took this amendment, not to vote it out, but to answer our listeners. Sadly, some deputies do not know the European norm. In all the countries of Europe, the State is to delegate its powers to self - control organizations. And if our nation starts not to take control of itself, but to trust in associations, such as animals, the pooling of doctors, the pooling of teachers and more authority, to give them control over the state control above, we will have more quality production with you. This bill does not violate the Constitution. It's very balanced with the state's responsibilities and keeping the normal working conditions for our manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u86	Thank you. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion is concluded. We'll go to the vote in a minute. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. And now, to conclude, I would like to invite the head of Jurczyn Petr Vasilovich's subcommittee, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u87	Dear National Deputy Lewchenko, if you will, to your question. I visited the Eurocommission 10 days ago. All the representatives of the European Commission said, "You want to come to us, do what we have to do." We must comply with the European Union's standards today. Now tell me, are you in favour of business and bringing it closer to Europe or against it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u88	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u89	Lechchenka, I mean, you didn't listen. Believe me, I'll tell you, you answer all the questions this way and you work all over the place, and that's what you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, please. Please come into the hall. As the MPs entered, the Levchenk’s replica was named after him. Please take our jobs, colleagues, come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. My last name was mentioned here. Mr. Reporter, when you mention and when this room often mentions the practice of Western Europe, first of all, you don't mix it all up into one pile, because in Western Europe there are many different countries and very many different systems, and they are not the same. And they're completely state-owned in this context, and in this particular area, the whole state system, is private, I agree. But when you talk about private-law subjects in Ukraine, Ukraine, where courts don't work, where the law enforcement system in Ukraine doesn't work, in our country today to hand over the functions of the state to the private, please forgive this nonsense, it's totally unacceptable because the result of these things we see that the Ukrainian remains more and more vulnerable today. In fact, so - called deregulation laws have been voted down, where checks have been banned, and now illegal construction cannot even be checked. That's the same thing that you're actually proposing right now. Because it's not real for a private person to control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u92	Let's go to the vote. And I put to the vote the draft Law on State Control, which is carried out to verify that legislation is consistent with the safety and quality of food and feed, animal health and welfare (number 0906) proposed by the second-reading committee and, in general, by colleagues. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:47:11]] For 251 The law is passed. Decision taken. The next law in the daytime is a draft law, it's already a block of first reading, I want to remind you. And the next is a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act to improve the efficiency of the use of selected land. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:47:58]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, I've invited you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u93	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act (registration number 4638). The bill is designed to regulate the use of land for communications, navigation and surveillance, radio technology, belonging to the unit of Ukraine’s unified civilian military system of air traffic management. Their use of these land for their own good will enable substantial savings in time and state resources for the deployment of the necessary technical equipment if agreed with the Ministry of Defence. The adoption of the draft Law will allow for the approval of the Ministry of Defence, use the land to deploy these means of communication, navigation and observation that belong to the units of the unified civilian military system, and will contribute to the establishment of a system of close interaction between the Department of Defense units in the part of the organization of the use of air space both in peace and during a special period. In view of the above, I welcome you and the Hangman's Day, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u94	The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on 14 June 2016, considered a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Law (to improve the efficiency of the use of selected land) and noted the following: the bill allows the use of Ukraine's Armed Forces land for communications, navigation and surveillance, units of Ukraine's unified civilian military system of air traffic organization. Such standards are logical, since the placement of such objects does not disrupt the use of defence land. At the same time, there are some questions about the mechanism for implementing the bill. Thus, the bill suggests that the placement of the above - mentioned objects would have to be in agreement with local authorities and local executive authorities. What exactly are the organs that the bill does not determine? If they are local authorities, is it not clear that it will be a village council, a district council, or a district council? The same is true of local executive authorities. What is meant by the district or district government? Moreover, the question arises, Is such a situation necessary at all? The committee therefore recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis and that any comments made be corrected on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in. Sergey Volodymyrovich’s diet, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u97	Klan Sergey Volodymyrovich, Hersonian, Peter Dust Block. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko will support the bill. It envisions simple changes that have been called upon to strengthen Ukraine’s security. I remind you that the military forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, military training facilities, enterprises and other military forces are located in areas of defence that are specially diverted from military territory. According to the proposed changes in the land of defence, it will be possible to place navigation, communication and surveillance equipment used by the units of Ukraine's united civil-military air traffic organization. This is the organization that organizes flights of both civilian and military vessels in Ukraine’s airspace. During the period of occupation and terrorist threat, the technical cooperation of air traffic units will enhance Ukraine’s security. Thus, the placement of such systems in the territory of the responsible military facilities seems to be both correct and promising. The Peter Prashenko faction will support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Aunt Ostrikova gives the word to Semensi. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u99	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, in general, I agree with the idea of this bill, which aims to bring about the deployment of means of communication in the navigation and observation of radio technology on the ground of defense. But there are a number of important observations, and we urge that we vote only in the first reading. Why? First, the bill does not specify where the use of land for these tasks will be agreed with the local executive authorities and when it will be with the local self-government authorities. It should also be noted which local executive authority and local self - government will agree with the matter. It is not proposed to make similar changes to laws that regulate the activities of the relevant local authorities. Moreover, we do not rule out that in some parts of eastern Ukraine, for example, local self - government authorities can deliberately delay this process. So these procedures need to be clearly written. The project does not define a mechanism for implementation, nor does it impose an obligation on the Cabinet of Ministers to develop an appropriate order for such a location. All of this can greatly complicate the process of real acceptance and decision making. So we call for voting as a basis in the first reading and working on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u100	Thank you. The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, in support of the self-help colleagues' remarks, I would like to stress once again that this bill stresses once again the emergency programme. the need for the State to conduct an inventory of state land. We know how much land today walks and surrenders in the pocket of the Mino Defence lease, how many state-owned enterprises, I write a lot of letters, conservatory, property fund, where people don't get pies, and the masters of broken businesses rent these lands in a rented land, and the state doesn't get any money. If we think of the need for the state to set up telecommunication networks personally to communicate personally in military times, we realize that this could be done by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is being considered and the Ministry of Defense is transferring these lands to the Liaison Committee. And so it's not just a one-time law, it's a systemic flaw in the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to make a protocol commission to the head of the government and to provide us with information on the conduct of such inventory and suggestions as to how we will manage the state lands and what their efficiency in use will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to ask the authors, and where are the people? The question is whether land is being embezzled or land use. So I want to say, read articles 14 and 13 of the Constitution: the people and the owners of the land are the people, not the state. That's the first one. Second, this is where they come up with the idea of agreeing, agreeing with the authorities. Where are the territorial communities? We've been talking about decentralization for two years. I want to remind some of the hotheads who put the territory under the annexation, the gas. Salt gas in the Lviv region, where the territorial communities refused to control the system. The same thing will happen here. You just look, it's about telecommunications, about the land of the Ministry of Defense. I want to tell you what the land of defense is. They are indicated in the Codex earth, along with the forest’s arrays. At the same time, we cannot dismiss the situation that has not yet been implemented by the Kuchma Ordinance on Land Privatization and Certificates. And so how can we solve this issue if there is a territorial community? You and I have passed a bill, a law that all the countries are now in the territorial community, not executive power. So what are we talking about? I would like to see that, when draft laws are being prepared, we must first and foremost implement article 3 of the Constitution: that the State exercises all its events, all its activities with the interests of citizens, their honours, and dignity, and health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u104	Colleagues, two minutes later, the U.S. Memory Action. And that's why I'm going to give you one more minute of People's Front, and then we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. In a minute, we're going to the vote. Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! I would like this discussion to be professional. And don't let the members of the block of thieves tell us about the rights. The land, the peasant. I don't know what you're talking about. You've done everything you can to bring down the army, you've done everything you can to get an aggressor here, and now we have to put order on our land. And that's why. It's a purely technical project. In order to increase national defence and security, in order to support the State Enterprise Ukraine, so that no one can oppose our national security, we must hand over these lands to enable them to manage our military. And don't talk about community rights being violated. Let's support Ukraine, a state-owned enterprise that organizes flights over our territory, so that we can effectively use state land to increase the national security and defense of our nation. All of it. Period. We vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u106	Colleagues, the vote will be after the action. I'm asking everyone to take their seats now. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now we're going to join the U.S. Memory Action. I ask everyone to come into the hall, and there will be a vote immediately afterwards. Dear colleagues, please honor the victims of the deportation of Crimean Tatars in 1944 for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. And, colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act to increase the efficiency of the use of selected land (No. 4638) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, please support, please vote for the basis. [[12:01:52]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, I hereby declare a recess of 30 minutes. At 12.35, please return to the hall. We will continue to consider the issues of agrarian politics. I very much ask everyone disciplined to return to the hall at 12.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u107	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and continue our work. And please invite the deputies to the hall. We're still looking at the agrarian policy cluster. Now we have a first-reading question. Next is the question of amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the system of government administration in agriculture (4922 and 4922-1). But, colleagues, so that we can work effectively and be able to go fully through the entire block, I'm going to propose a simplified procedure. And I'd like everyone's support while the national MPs gather. So now I'm going to put it to a vote. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. Come into the hall. This is an example of a break that needs to be cancelled at 12:00 to 12:30. And we have to vote for it, and we have to convince our colleagues. Because this break is much longer than half an hour as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u108	That's true. Some factions don't support – they're irresponsible. Some are hopeless at all. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I'm asking you to support everyone so that we can work effectively, consider the reduced procedure. I need 150 votes. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. And I am voting on a motion for a short-term motion for a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the public administration system in agriculture (4922 and 4922-1). Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone, and I'm asking you to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please be supportive. Vote. Rounded up, lined up, we vote responsibly. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:40:30.]] For the 110. I ask the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, which includes representatives of all factions, to carry out an explanatory work among the special forces. Let's do it again? Colleagues, I'll put it again, if there's no votes, we'll go after the full procedure, but then we've got huge laws, we just can't get to them. So, colleagues, would you support me? Vote? I see faction leaders have appeared, they are now disciplining the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Law (4922) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on optimizing the public administration system in the field of agriculture, reviewing the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. [[12:42:26]] For-137 We're not there, we're doing much better, we can't stop it. Colleagues, please come to the hall. Yes, the deputies have come to the hall. Colleagues, I'm going to set up now and let's just take a little bit of time to look at all the issues of the agenda. Colleagues! Members of the committee, please contact the factions. And I propose once again to review the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the agricultural administration system (4922) and (4922-1) to review the reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support everyone, please vote carefully and please all support the proposal, please vote. We don't have enough votes, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[12:44:29]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Labazyuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u109	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, was worked on by the committee for the first time to read a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the system of government administration in the field of agriculture under registration number 4922. Before I begin, I would like to remind you that the bill has been drafted to improve the efficiency of the central executive bodies and to reduce the related budgetary costs and administrative pressure on management. So after the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (number 442) decree on optimizing the system of central executive authorities, among other things, a state agricultural inspection was eliminated. However, because of the lack of agreement with the legislative provisions governing the authority of the executive branch, the implementation of the decree proved impossible. Including part of the proper elimination and transfer of the responsibilities attached to it. Thus, another government decision No. 667 approved the state service provision in Ukraine for safety, food and consumer protection, which, among other things, was passed on most of the powers of the State Inspectorate. Today, however, there are no necessary legislative changes that have led to the impossibility of doing what is right. In order to solve the problem, the committee, together with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of State, carried out a little work on a comprehensive solution to the problem and introduced a number of technical rights to 44 laws. With regard to changing the definition of the body to which the appropriate authority is delegated, allowing it to unlock the work and enable it to provide services in a qualitative manner. The adoption of the bill will allow the legislative level to determine the full scope of the functions and powers of the central executive bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u110	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u111	on which the functions of ensuring the conditions for the proper development and security of agriculture are laid down. So, colleagues, please support this Bill 4922 in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u113	Good day, dear colleagues, Paul Dzublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. An alternative bill is brought to your attention. Yes, not to be repeated with the previous speaker, I would like to stress the difference. The situation, you all know. For example, the function of such an organ as the State Agency. So there's an organ that controls, slices, reports, that's all of the functions in this one organ, and let's tell you where the truth is, and what happens to forests, you can see. The same thing we see and hear about the creation of such a service as Maintenance. I don't mind, but there's a question of functional fulfillment of this service. So the issues that are directly related to environmental issues, in the alternative bill, I propose to pass on to Derjeko inspection. For example, give us control functions for agrochemicals. We all know what's going on right now, and how many pesticides are in the fields, polluting the environment, and disposal, and exporting all these agrochemicals again, and at this point, are being put on the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and these are the same issues that eco-inspecting. I'm proposing functions that relate directly to the environment and the environmental impact, and I'm going to pass it on to the Derjekoinspection. So I would ask you all to support my bill directly. And I'd like to address you with the fact that we still have to take care of the next generation and keep it after us. And we need to view nature, not as a resource base, but as an environment for both us and ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u114	Please. We're done, aren't we? Okay. The committee’s deputy head, Mr. Bakumenko, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agharistic Policy and Land Relations has carefully considered both bills at its meetings on the 14th and 21st. February 14, 2016 and February 21, 2017. Both bills propose legislatively to regulate the transfer of functions and powers of central executive authorities according to changes in the system of executive bodies provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree 442, "On Optimization of the System of Central Executive Authorities", which will ensure the effective functioning of the Ukrainian State service on food security and consumer measures, and will create conditions for the proper implementation of the functions transferred to other national authorities. The basic and alternative bills differ only from the changes proposed in the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, according to which the bill (registration number 4922) on the implementation of the national registration of GMOs for food, feed, feed additives and veterinary preparations, as well as on State control and monitoring in this area, is proposed to be submitted to the State Food Service of Ukraine; the alternative bill (registration number 4922-1) The state environmental inspection of Ukraine. In this law, the ECO State is not authorized to perform these functions. Moreover, the approach proposed in the alternative project will create a coalition of legislation on the safety and quality of food. Thus, after considering the bills, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the system of government administration in the field of agriculture (registration number 4922) was adopted on the first reading. And the bill is a registration number.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u116	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u117	One, overruled. But according to the proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, as well as the legal entities of the legislative initiative, all these observations, which are also included in the alternative bill, will be taken into account by the committee. In view of the above, please support the committee’s decision and adopt Bill 4922 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u118	Thank you. Please record the performance: two in, two in, two in the opposite. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u119	Please give the floor to Deputy Kulinich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it has been almost three years since the Cabinet of Ministers decided to eliminate the Deersilchosinspection. In fact, the Sustainable Inspection has already been eliminated and the relevant amendments to the relevant laws have not been made by now. As a result, the control system in the office. Control and control in the APC is not actually implemented. This creates enormous difficulties and causes many problems. Therefore, the issue of decommissioning the powers of the Dergisilchosinspection should be addressed immediately in the relevant laws. Project 4922 proposes a clear distribution of government powers to which control and control functions are transferred to the APC. And so I would like to ask your honourable colleagues to support Bill 4922, which was supported by the committee on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk gives the word to Oleg Lashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My dear peasants, I want to raise from this high parliamentary rostrum the eternal question of Ukrainian land. Our many-suffering, most fertile, most fertile Ukrainian land the government wants to sell by signing a Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund to set up a branch in order to borrow another loan from the International Monetary Fund, which will be returned tomorrow. When the authorities sell the land, telling them that an investor and peasants will come to bathe like weeds, butter, it's all a lie, because in an equal place, new swallows, oligarchs, latifundists will buy people land, Ukrainian peasants and their children will walk in bars, and we will be ten times as expensive to buy products grown on our land. Why do they want to do this? Because they want to rob people. And by the way, when fertile land is being drained today, it's also a crime against Ukraine, because we're taking the fertility of our land into future generations, because it's going to take billions of dollars later to restore this fertility. Therefore, the Radical Party faction, our powerful team, has gathered 170 signatures of national deputies under amendments to the Constitution (art. 41), to predict that Ukraine's agricultural system is based on farming, not latifundy, not transnational corporations, but Ukrainian farmers, Ukrainian peasants, their children, their parents. Ukrainians must be masters of their homeland. We need to consider this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u123	Keith Andrey Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies! Keith Andrey, strike group, Stryshtyn, Jewry. I want to tell you that the essence of this bill, which is now under consideration, is that we are trying to legitimize the Cabinet of Ministers Order, which was adopted in 2014 No. 442, which created the State Service against a number of Ukrainian laws that regulated veterinary medicine, which regulated sanitary epidemiology, which regulated other control functions. In fact, we're connected. More loyally, we did. Crossed the hedgehog with a widow, resulting in a completely non-functional service that doesn't work, and more than that, it works contrary to Ukrainian legislation. I want to say that there is now a decision by the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine that has recognized this Order No. 442 of the Cabinet of Ministers as a part of the mandate of the Sanitary Epidemiology Service as one that has become invalid. And the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Administrative Court. I also want to say to everyone (maybe someone doesn't know) that we've already paid from the budget of Ukraine for a non-functional that's created, non-working, 160 million dollars of taxpayers for the fight against the African plague, for the fight against the consequences, not for the reason that this system is not functional. And that's why my offer is very simple. Let the Cabinet of Ministers bring its decision into line with the Ukrainian legislation, and if something is to be regulated in one or the other services, then we will succeed in doing so with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u125	Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u126	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, please note that you have now passed two bills on the central executive authority that are the authors of the MP. I think it's unacceptable if we don't participate in the Cabinet of Ministers to consider the functions and capabilities of the central executive body. First of all, this one. Let me remind you of history. This body of executives, according to European integration, was created in the Cabinet of Ministers of State. Health and veterinary health services and consumer rights protection, and market protection, control. But the APC couldn't, the ministry, survive that they've taken away the power of corruption, and through the government they've turned from the central authority into subordination of the APC. Listen to what we have today: the central authority of the executive is under the authority of the central executive authority. This is such a mess we have today in the Cabinet of Ministers. That's the first one. Second of all, most of all. We have to make this law, if we even take any of the first readings, make a very important observation. We don't accept the changes to article 16 on wholesale markets, where we're taking down government control issues, but we're leaving the monitoring. We object to the amendment of part three in article 21 on the legal regime of the territories to which one of the bills is passed on to control land pollution from this service to environmental inspection. Excuse me, in all European countries, the control of the growing product is coming from the rope.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u127	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u128	is given from rope to table. And it can't be an environmental inspection, it can't be out of the country and it can't be controlled by that product that goes to our table. I, in view of the lack of time, ask all comments, the first reading may be taking into account all the observations of the Fatherland faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u129	And, colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, Krivenka. Then we go to the vote. So I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. And now for the final performance, one minute. Krivenko, People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, in our time in deregulation, we have eliminated a sufficient number of services, including Odystic control services. But instead, we're trying to create this kind of monster by giving him total power. For example, I set such an example, reading what he is offered to pass on according to this law. This is regulation of the production of naphtha and explosives. Emissions of toxic substances into the atmosphere. Management of waste disposal. Treatment of GMOs. Although the GMO is clearly determined by the Cabinet’s decision to treat GMOs, it is based on environmental inspection. Tell me, where are the explosions, where are the productions, and where are the food security and consumer rights? So I do propose to support the alternative bill 4922-1, where all these functions are passed on to the institution that controls this, namely environmental inspections. Or let the authors do it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u131	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u132	Or let the authors now agree under the transcript to make these changes in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Alexander Borisovich Bakumenko, how can we be? Maybe I'll put one and the other on the ratings? And then, who gets more, are we going to put him to the vote? Is that right? Colleagues, is that how it works? Then let's move on to making a decision. Please take up your jobs. Andrew Volodymyrovich, Andry Volodymyrovich, without you, there is no chance of a vote. Please proceed to the vote. I'm going to put two laws on the ratings and we're going to see which one has more support. We're just taking it as a basis. I ask you to prepare yourself and determine by voting. I am the first to vote on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the system of government administration in the field of agriculture (4922). The committee suggested that it be based. Please, a rating vote. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. Please vote, 4922. [[13:04:10]] For-146 Now I'm betting on an alternative 4922-1. Please vote. 4922-1, rating vote. Please vote. [[13:04:36]] For-94 Colleagues, we need to settle down. I think one of them should be the basis. Let's give the committee head the assurance that he's going to include the position from the alternate to the principal, that's just the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u134	We received 4,922 from the committee. The hall has now confirmed the rating. But I think I have to make, and I said in my speech that the right suggestions that are in the alternative bill should also be taken into account in the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not for inspection, there are other reasons. There is also a point made by the Chief Executive, which should also be taken into account. So I would now like to support 4922, taking into account the right proposals of the GNEU and the alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u135	Will you support this formulation? Colleagues, the position of committee head, the committee's representative? So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the system of government administration in the field of agriculture (No. 4922) with the assurance of the committee head that amendments to the second reading of the alternative bill will be made to the second reading. Please support me, please vote for base 4922 on the committee's proposal on the basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the vote, we vote. [[13:06:51]] For 215 I'll be back. Please take your seats, return to the voting room. Fellow national deputies, please return to the voting room. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Bill 4922. Please be careful, every voice in the balance, to vote back to 4922. Please support, please vote, vote, colleagues. Colleagues, please every vote, then finish the discussion, vote, please support. Vote. [[13:07:59]] For 216 Colleagues, I'll put the next one, I'll have the law to put the next bill, the alternative one, and then I'll put the second reading back on. Come on, I'm voting on Bill 4922-1. Who supports this bill as a basis, please vote. On the basis of 4922-1, please vote alternative. [[13:08:46]] For 114 The decision is not taken. And now the next suggestion, which is, is to refer to the committee for a second reading again, colleagues. First reading, first reading, first reading. I ask everyone to mobilize, this is a compromise proposal that will allow for the unification of efforts in preparation for re-examination. I'm asking everyone to support this proposal, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on optimizing the system of government administration in the field of agriculture (4922). Have the committee re-read it. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, for one more time, please support. [[13:09:46]] For 229 Decision taken. Please, the committee. We've done so well on this block, I'm asking this bill to be finalized, and we're going to review it again. The next one in the daytime is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in a complex of land plots (number 3157). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. [[13:10:32]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hlan Sergey Volodymirovich. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u136	The Honourable Chairman, honourable colleagues, is now under consideration for a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in a complex of land plots (No. 3157). This law clearly proposes to establish, firstly, that water objects are made available for use at land trade under one contract for leases of a water object in a complex with a land area under it. Now there's a legal coalition because any farmer or person who needs a water object is forced to make two contracts. One contract is a contract of a water object, the other contract is a contract of land under it. We suggest making one comprehensive document and simplifying the transfer of water objects. Second, it is proposed that land should not be traded for the transfer of land under water. That is, in the use of land by owners of active melioritative systems that provide irrigation of land as well as land under water facilities for the special use of water related to the prohibition and use of water for irrigation on irrigated lands and the disposal of water from these lands. The other one. Renting land occupied by water objects for fishing purposes This amendment was made after the Ministry of Agrarian Politics had finalized, but it led to the negative conclusion of the anti-corruption committee. And we, as drafters of the bill, agree to take it off the record. Because if we simplify the transfer to one object, this will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u137	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u138	Yeah. That is, the adoption of the bill will ensure the elimination of the legal colossal power to lease water objects, protect the rights of farmers who use irrigation in their production, facilitate the creation of new jobs, and simplify the process of contract making. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy supports this bill, the Chief Research Administration has no comments. So I ask you to accept this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Now the word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Alexander Bakumenko. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u140	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honorary National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Refinement of the Transfer of Water Objects in a Set of Land Areas at its February 2, 2016 session and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The bill proposes to rent land from the water fund’s land without auctions within coastal protection lanes, strips and coasts, waterways, water objects for special water use, which is associated with the ban and use of water for irrigation on irrigated lands. Including irrigated lands, where rice irrigation systems are located, as well as the disposal of water resources from these lands, agree on the standards of the Land Code and the Water Code in part of the lease for fisheries, aquaculture, water shelters, other than complex watersheds: ponds, lakes and enclosed natural waters, and also release from the sale on competitive grounds of land trade, public land or municipal property or rights in the event of lease of land occupied by water objects, for fish farming, including, fisheries, aquaculture. The main science-expert management in the first reading thinks that the project can be based. In view of the above, please support the draft Law (registration number 3157) as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear factions, I'm asking you to sign up for the faction discussion now on this bill. Please. Please, Mr. Barna, Oleg Barna, pass the word to his colleague from Mr. Rosenblatt's Peter Dust Block. Please, Mr. Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u142	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A very important bill and the "Peter Prashenko Block" will support it both on a basis and be ready to support it as a whole. Today, we have a legal coalition where many farmers, many of the people we are fighting for today and offering them to become a major part of our country’s agriculture, cannot afford to rent water objects, so called water. Today, according to the law, you have heard that you must first take water and then take the land under it. So we make this process more difficult and we don't give people who want to work today and want to create jobs in a new fisheries sector, we make this life more difficult for them. Indeed, large companies today, having lawyers, having really legal departments, have the ability to do so, and farmers, small businesses, do not have the time and money to do so. So today, it's very important to adopt this law as a basis, to allow it to be worked out, and to really accept it in general, in order to actually simplify the opportunities for our businesses to do business, to do agricultural business. And the second question that's very important is that when people invest money under objects of melioration, they have the ability to protect themselves, that is, they have the opportunity to then, without a competition, to take these objects into which they have already invested funds, huge costs, and to continue their lives, to continue their work. So once again, I urge you to support this bill to enable the development of agriculture and the issue of further land reform to give back to the leading movement of agriculture in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, the national MP Yvchenko is speaking to his colleague, Mr. Eutuska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u144	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I'm going to tell you right now that the Motherland faction is going to support this bill. And I'd like to highlight a few important ingredients in it. In fact, this is where we settle or resolve the issue of the legal colossus when a person rents a water dance, but at the same time we allow it to be held, at the auction, the brothers rent the land. Thus, it is established that the only contract clearly agrees with rents and water dancing and land plots. The other one. It's clearly determined in which cases -- and these cases are clearly prescribed in the law -- when we may not auction on these lands. And we're also talking about farmers. If we now find that our country can be a visit, an agricultural visit first of all, in Europe, not only in Ukraine, and grow organic, normal products on its beautiful lands, then of course we need to stimulate small and medium-sized farming, businessmen working on the ground. Thus, those farmers with these various irrigation facilities also need incentives that will allow them not to pay or tax taxes, but to pay taxes that are added to their produce. That's why the Fatherland faction clearly states: we support the village, we support the bill. And please vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u145	Thank you, colleague. Please, National Deputy Germany, from the Opposition Block. Please. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, of course, this law is necessary and must be adopted in the direction of disfellowshipping. At the same time, I would like to remind you of what this is about land that seems to be leased to the agrarian sector for work, or fish industry, or fish farming, and so on. And so I would like to remind you here that today there are such mechanisms that are set up by setting the coefficients that require renters every year, each year, increasing the rent to such an extent that they are unable to maintain and rent. That's the first one. And the second. I would like to see this bill, before the second reading, still write postulates, post land use in Ukraine. Of course, we should not have water dancing under Ukrabvod or any other organization, and the ground on the bottom of this water dance belongs. The contract is signed by the Administration. It is imperative that the honourable colleagues who will work on this bill, all water dancing that appears to be leased, be paid rents to the local community. I'll give you another hand! And that's exactly what we have to predict, because it's money to keep the village council, that it's money to build villages, that it's money to teach and heal children, and even.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u147	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, the last speaker, Mr. Moseschuk, to whom is the word of his colleague Wolf. And then we have the non-fractional ones, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u148	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We support this bill in the first reading, we think it's important. But I'd like to focus a little bit on something else. When we consider renting water, we need to keep in mind the concept of access to water. When, including some of the ladies in this room, surrounded lakes, rivers, seized shores, people had no access, nothing. What is the conscience to speak for the water in the Kremlin block if Ljovczyn took over the entire island on Dniper? The whole island is flooded! And they have a conscience to talk about water? That's why the Radical Party faction has consistently fought, fought and fought to ensure that Ukrainians have access to any kind of water, and we can't restrict Ukrainian compatriots in this. We have endured and will endure the fences, and if necessary, the bulldozer islands will be freed from these Janukovich graves. Because they brought the war here to the country, and their Inter is fueling hostility. They've already bought an apartment in Moscow for the Freeman, they're getting ready to run. So get out, all of you! You don't belong in Ukraine! And liberate the Ukrainian waters for the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u149	Please, from the non-faulty. I'm from factions and then from non-fractionals. Please, now, from the Petra Prashenko faction, there's the Kishkar People's Deputy, and then you, please, Mr. Levchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u150	Guys, I'm really paying attention to this bill. It's about simple people and budgets mostly in the district level. Then, when the bet is leased, you go to the auction to get the land that is under the water of the same pond. Listen, the laws of this State will soon expel those who are willing to work on this earth from these stakes and develop their own territories. Let's go to the vote, support specific people in specific areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u151	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now we're going to the vote. Please enter the hall, take up jobs, colleagues. There'll be a vote in a minute. One more minute, Lechchenko, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u152	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Indeed, many speakers spoke about how to protect water objects, how to protect lakes, ponds, and rivers. But this bill is doing the exact opposite thing. The point is that part two of article 124 of the Code of Land is proposed in such a way that the lease of land occupied by water objects does not take place on competitive grounds, not on land. And fish - farm water objects are divided into three categories: higher, first, and second. And such a legislative norm in the event of its adoption will entail serious corruption risks, as well as conflicts of interest with officials of all branches of government. Since there will be no competition on the ground, there will be water objects in the upper and first categories for those who are close, chosen, right? And the second category is for the rest of the citizens and for ordinary legal persons. That is, you continue to spread society, and when those near you get the best objects, everyone else will get the leftovers. In general, how can a water object be treated as normal property, as suggested by a contract of use?Oh, my God! A water object is not ordinary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u153	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u154	A water object is also part of a strategic state resource. It's not some kind of property you can sell like a house on a contract. Because the contract does not specify how to use the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u155	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that the bill is only proposed to be adopted as a basis and as amended by national deputy Klanya Sergio Volodymyrovich. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in the complex with land (No. 3157) with an amendment that was made by Hlan Sergey Volodymyrovich on the basis of his colleagues. Just for the basis. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[13:27:52]] For 225 225, colleagues. Careful! Take your seats, colleagues. Take your seats, please! I'm proposing to go back to the 3157 vote. I ask everyone to vote carefully and to vote in favour of the return to 3157, please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Careful, we'll vote. [[13:28:31]] For the 220. Now I'm going to put another one on the way back, if I don't, one more time. Colleagues, please mobilize. We lacked one vote, and that gives me reason, and I'm once again proposing to return to the vote on the basis of draft Law 3157, amended by Klany Sergey Volodymirovich. Please vote. Please support the offer for return. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:29:23]] For 236 So we're back. Colleagues, there are signals of non-personal voting, so I'm putting the vote again, and I'm asking you to vote in person. Once again, I propose to return to draft Law 3157. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:30]] For 242 [[B in m in s a l in]] And now I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in the complex with land areas (No.3157) with the amendment by Hlan Sergey Volodymyrovich, on the basis of his colleagues, only on the basis. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[13:30:44]] For 247 Decision taken. Colleagues, the last we have is a bill from the agrarian policy box. This is a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Agrarian Land Traffic Regulation: Search for Ukrainian Model" (No. 6241). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:31:27]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Agrarian Policy Committee Deputy Alexander Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u156	Thank you, Mr. Head. On December 21, 2016, Parliamentary hearings were held by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of "Regulating the circulation of agricultural land: searching for a Ukrainian model". As a result of the discussion of this issue at parliamentary hearings by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Agreement of the circulation of agricultural land: the search for a Ukrainian model" was prepared. The draft recommendations systematized and took into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives of central, local executives and local self-government bodies, professional public organizations and associations, scientists, agricultural producers, who were given parliamentary hearings. There are significant differences between the participants in the parliamentary hearings regarding the introduction of the agricultural land market. The project of the recommendations is therefore intended, inter alia, to entrust the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine with the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, with the participation of representatives of the Association of Local Self-Governmental Authorities, Professional Scientific Institutions, Agrarian Associations and Associations, Public Organisations, a project of a national model for the circulation of agricultural land, taking into account the best world experience, to conduct its broad public discussion and submit it to the Cabinet of Ministers. The concept should define a gradual road map for the phased implementation of the Ukrainian model of land circulation. The concept should provide for stages in the management of agricultural land into economic circulation, a list of restrictions, preferences, prohibitions and other precautionary measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u157	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u158	and the users of agricultural land, the incentive mechanism, the creation and development of family farms, the protection of the interests of domestic producers and the improvement of their lending procedures, the promotion of agricultural cooperation, the development of infrastructure, the territorial communities, the resolution of rural employment issues. This will remove social tension in society and stop speculation about the issue. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u159	Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u160	I recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the theme "Regulating the circulation of agricultural land: finding a Ukrainian model" as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u162	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When the President, the Prime Minister and other seniors signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, where they assumed the obligation to implement the land market, none of them went and asked the villagers, the Ukrainians whether they wanted the land market, and what would be the consequences of this so-called land market? Today, the authorities are squawking people's heads, saying in our simple rural language, lying like dogs, lying about that when the land is sold, an investor will come and order the village. There will be no order, because the peasants will be turned into batres, there will be no order until the Ukrainian farmer is the master of his land. For a Ukrainian farmer to have the opportunity to borrow cheaply, to make sure that the farmer is the one who rents land in the area, who pays taxes in the area, who gives part of the income to the social sector. The farmer is the animal farmer: cows, pigs, geese, farmers. And if we take statistics today, we have the biggest farmer, Kiev. Because all companies registered in Kiev, they pay taxes here, draining Ukrainian land by picking up peasants. So the position of our political power of the Radical Party is clear. We're against selling land. Because this land is not bought by Ukrainian peasants, it's by transnational corporations and their greedy swallows here in Ukraine. For a farmer to be a farmer on earth, we need to be able to maximize the support of our farmers and our peasants. That is why we are advocating for the relevant changes to the Constitution, for the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u163	Smoky Grigory Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address the man I respect first, Oleg Valeriyovich, which concerns you. And what I'm saying is that about a month and a half ago, I reported a bill on farming, which you and the Motherland have successfully collapsed, and now we're being hit by letters that are dying by farmers, farm managers, and their children can't form a farm because they have to auction it. As far as parliamentary hearings are concerned today. First of all, we're not asking the question that let's sell the land, we're giving the commission to work, not to bury our heads in the sand, all the insurers that would be able to form a normal, civilized circle of agricultural land. Let's not hide our heads, let's not go anywhere! Problems arise, and they need to be solved. Another question, another question that we have to make clear today is that the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, the Associations, the representatives of the farms have taken part in and worked out the order of the amount of agricultural land that would be useful to them. And we really agree that we should have, first of all, and rule the land of the one who works on it. That's clear. We are talking about the fact that not only foreign investors, but even legal persons in our country of Ukraine, do not have the right to buy land. Only natural persons, i.e. peasants, are farmers. We affirm and support Parliament's recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u165	Thank you very much, colleagues. But I want to talk to everyone, not to mention names and factions during the performances, because I just have to give a line. I'm just saying that in advance. One minute is the Radical Party, one minute is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u166	Dear colleague of the presidential faction, a worthy man! But you're the bill that you tried to bring out, called "farm farming," you were trying to hide the latifundists. We have today, if we take it, the largest farmer in Ukraine is President Poshenko, who has half a million acres of land, is Kosyuk, who has 400,000 hectares of land, and other latifundists. And in our sense, farmers are the person who lives in a village that has 200-300-400 hectares there, who pays taxes in this village and keeps the social sphere, because he lives in this village. And you want to call the farmers of the Glyths and those who want to turn the peasants into locusts. What the hell is wrong with you, not the swallows and our Ukrainian land!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u167	Fatherland, who? Yvchenko. Fellow workers, please, are as concise as possible because time is running out for lunch.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u168	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Gregory Mikhailovich, unlike the previous speaker, we have gathered the largest gathering of farmers. We worked on the Farms Act, where we offered the land of permanent use, which was devoted to farmers so that we could give it to them. You and your committee colleagues failed the bill twice and sent for work. Farmers gathered again and called on the committee and personally voted for you. That's why we're not going to allow a hidden privatization of farms. And what you wanted to do, you wanted to do a corporation when the one person refused to take advantage of the legal person. And so, I support my colleague already, you wanted to do this as a shadow circle of the earth. No shadow circle! Let us improve land relations and support farming, not the two latifundists you supported from your faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u169	Semenha Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u170	Please give it to Tanya Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you right away that Self-Help will support this decision, but I'll make sure that its formulation is too broad. Instead, the most important issue for today’s land reform plan is the opening up of the land market. And we see here even in Parliament, there are two polarly different approaches. Some say to open the market immediately. Others say that we will never let the land of Ukraine be sold. Both of these approaches are equally irresponsible for both people and the state. Ukraine certainly has to move to the land market, as most countries of the world have done, except for Congo, Tajikistan, Cuba, and I am not comfortable with Ukraine's neighborhood. But in any reform, there must be a target audience -- the people for whom these reforms are being made. And that's why Self-Help thinks this is the reform -- the opening up of the land market should be done to the interests of small, medium-sized farms and family farms. That is why this Parliament passed laws on family farming. Moratorium is the path to poverty and the path to a shadow economy. Let me give you an example. Grandmother in the Herson or Zaporez Region gives her pie 8 hectares per 7,000 dollars per year, that's 580 bracelets per month, no papers, no lease as a slave, no right to use and work on this land. So Self-Help requires the government to give us a comprehensive multi-term strategy for land market opening reform, and above all to take account of farmers' interests. Because farmers today are not ready to come to the bank and get credit, they don't have structured accounting. No bank will lend him a loan today. Therefore, the government must first and foremost ensure that farmers have access to cheap loans. Only then, when a farmer can come to the bank and get a loan, can we go to the next stage: to open the market in the interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm not going to add 30 seconds, because we're not going to be able to get the next bill under consideration. It's a quick count. Ten seconds, finish. Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u173	And, colleagues, what's very important is what the IMF requires of us: foreign investment. I believe that today, in conditions where we have a war with Russia and constant attempts by the economic colonization of Ukraine, it is impossible to give foreign investors the right to purchase Ukrainian land at present. And this should be included in the long-term strategy. And I believe in a Ukrainian farmer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u174	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev of "The Fatherland" gives Yvchenk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u175	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland came to these parliamentary hearings, was the leader of Julia Timoshenko. We heard people. What were they talking about? They were talking about colossal raids, they were talking about court decisions that take their crops to third parties. They spoke of land relations and unregulated land, land of permanent use, inheritance of land, transfer of land to local communities. They urged us not to vote in favour of the budget, as their tax duties are being completely abolished. They called for family farming, urged us to support the law on the amendment to the Tax Code, where we give them tax breaks and employment. They called for full support and understanding and said that until the banking system worked, until there was equal access for everyone under normal interest, what to do with the mortgage, how the mortgage rent would work directly for the purpose of filling the circulation costs. It was their crying. Their weeping was to be poured out in recommendation, fellow workers. And when I read the recommendations, I see that as a result, one of the first points is written to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council the Law on Land Circumstances. Let's not fool around! And I want to call every faction manager: you were there, you were there, you were speaking, why are you going out on this platform today and telling the opposite information? Colleagues, Fatherland doesn't support it. We are not ready to conduct, to market the earth today. We organize a referendum, we organize signatures. And I'll tell you more, it will be the last day of this Parliament's work if you dare to vote on the Land Round Act! Think of man! [[B in m in s a l in]] Think of the manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u176	Colleagues, in two minutes, we're going to have a vote, we're going to finish the discussion, so I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. They haven't had a word in groups yet. Colleagues, in one minute, and very briefly, none of the groups had a word yet. Kulinich. No, that's not possible. Please, one minute. Then one minute, Germany, one minute, Melniczuk, and we go to the vote. Andrew, I'm sorry, we can't. I'm asking very briefly, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Rebirth will support this determination, because it prescribes all the necessary steps that need to be taken before opening up the land market. First, it's a question of land consolidation. There will be no civil market if we don't bring the order in our land supply. Consolidation is a European practice that needs to be implemented in Ukraine. The second issue of land with undetermined legal status, the issue of collective property, the issue of unexploded rations. This needs to be decided immediately. And the land outside the populated areas. That's what everyone said at the parliamentary hearings. As long as these lands are managed by officials, there is no trust in Parliament or government in this matter. This too needs to be addressed immediately. And the main thing is that full players in opening up the land market, when it's open, have to be Ukrainian agriculture, Ukrainian farming. What market can you talk about when they don't even have the money? Because state support works only for animals, and it does not fully address this problem. Therefore, it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u178	Thank you, thank you. I'm asking you very much, colleagues, I didn't let you go any further, because we're not going to make it to the next bill. Germany -- one minute, Melniczuk -- one minute, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that before the land was privatized, we had already privatized an agrarian committee. Look at the document. This bill came in, the ruling went to the Supreme Council on 27th, and on 24 March the committee is already making a decision. What's that? We do fake work in all of Ukraine because someone wants to sell the land. Now for the second one. In addition to those who cry out today, read Laws 5246, Bills 5030, and 5030. Yes, it's you! And 5030. Look, they've been lying down since October, and their agrarian committee hasn't even considered it. And there's the question, the question of impossibility, of not allowing the sale of land, that's what it's all about. And that's why these bills need to be put into the message of the day and considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u180	Colleagues, therefore, last performance, Sergey Melniczuk. Everyone, please take their jobs, come into the hall, take their jobs. Please be as concise as possible, Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u181	Good day, Ukrainian people, good day, colleagues. I want to remind everyone about the Constitution of Ukraine, especially articles 13 and 14. I will quote only the 14th, one paragraph: "The earth is the main national wealth under special protection of the state." What do I mean? The President must follow the Constitution as much as possible as a guarantor of the Constitution. And until the war is over, what he promised to end the war, until then Parliament must not give consent or prolong the moratorium on the sale of land! There will be no sale of land. But above all, this land needs to be treated. We now know where and what is and who has it, who rents it, who pays for it, and who takes it. And the earth needs to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u182	Colleagues, discussion over. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The regulation of the circulation of agricultural land: the search for the Ukrainian model" (No. 6241). Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations for a Committee proposal on a basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, this is just an initiative of parliamentary hearings. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:52:10]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Colleagues, so we ended the block of agrarian politics. Most of the laws were passed. I welcome the committee. And it'll be possible to work on it. But now I have a message for you. I'm asking you to stay put. The following law is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (for the rules on the imposition of sentences and the calculation of the term of prior imprisonment). This is the law that allows us to stop releasing especially dangerous criminals from prison. The last time we didn't have enough votes to accept it here in the session room. And there's an offer from the committee to consider an alternative right now. So that this problem does not go unsettled. So I ask everyone to stay in the hall and participate in the work and the voting. And we're moving on to draft Law 5534. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please back up, fellows! It's a very important law. Please be supportive. [[13:53:29]] For-174 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to see the report by Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, we have unfortunately considered three bills three times and have not received a vote. In its time, the Supreme Council made a very big mistake that cost 55 lives today, 22 rapes, 760 robberies. When we voted that two could count being in the WHO. And now they've released criminals who've killed, gang members, robbers. And what I'm saying is, of course, we have to stop this mess. So there's a bill, the only thing that's separate, non-alternative, is a technical remark. And what I'm saying is that it's very simple: counting, as before, everyone's day after day. I think there's a lot to be said about humanism, but practice has shown that among the 10,000 liberated 1, 000 have committed repeated crimes, that is, in fact, we release criminals who create a criminal situation and increase crime in the country. So I ask everyone, regardless of political views, of different political parties, to vote in favour of this document. In doing so, he asked the head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Parubius, to put him right on the first reading and the whole to stop this mess. Thank you very much for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u184	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u185	Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, Committee on Law Enforcement, reviewed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code (for the rules on the imposition of sentences and the counting of terms of prior imprisonment). The purpose of this project is to amend article 72 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which, inter alia, provides for the inclusion of prior imprisonment as a term of imprisonment in the form of deprivation of liberty on the first day of prior imprisonment for the day of deprivation of liberty. This rule was enacted by Act No. 838-7, the so-called Savachenko Act. The draft provides for a return to the previous edition of part five of article 72 of the Criminal Code, according to which prior imprisonment is counted by a court in the event of a conviction to be deprived of liberty day by day or by the rules provided for in part one of this article. When sentencing not mentioned in part one of this article, the court, taking into account the previous imprisonment, may ease the punishment or completely release the convicted person. Thus, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of draft number 5534. And in the case of the deletion of chapter III, paragraph 2, to the End, and to the Transitional, of the bill, which is already redundant, because this bill is still not going to have reverse action, you can accept it as a whole, and you can end with these insinuations, and with this pyar company, which tells us that this is very and very bad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u186	Thank you, colleagues. So we have three minutes until two o'clock. The last time we passed that law, it wasn't just because we had to go through the discussion. That's why I'm only going to give it to those who signed up: two for, two for. And please, I can assure you, one minute at a time. Sign up: two in, two in, one in, please. It's an organization of work and I have the right to do it as a head during a session. Macedonia, Petra Poshenko's Block. Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u187	I give the word to Palamarczuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u188	The Peter Prashenko faction considers the proposed changes to be correct and endorses the bill. It is aimed at solving the problem that arose after the adoption of the so - called law of Savchenko, when the day after the adoption of the so - called law was counted in two days’ imprisonment. I will remind you that this law has resulted in the release of thousands of criminals, murderers, rapists, recidivists who have been punished for serious, particularly serious crimes. The motive was really noble -- to restore justice to those people who had not been moderately held for long at the WHO. In view of the number of political and procurement investigations, this matter really needed to be settled during the decision - making period. However, the situation has changed and needs to be updated. More than 9 percent are now released from prison and will again commit crimes. In fact, ordinary Ukrainians found themselves in the risk zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u189	Thank you. One minute, Skuratowski passes Suhevich. Mr. Yuri, please come in in in a minute. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u190	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I agree with the head of the committee that the law has no reverse power and should be. But so that we do not make such a mistake that the reverse power is not in relation to those who have already come out, but to those who are seated today. For example, if he has spent one month, he should be counted for today, and then, when the law enters into force, no longer counts, we do not allow such a legal error.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Danchenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u192	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, we have had a lot of discussions in this room on how to deal with this issue, with what is called the Saucenco law, with the duration of detention during the previous prison term. The bill does not solve the problem in any way, it returns to the previous one. We have had a lot of drafts, and we need to end up in line with the European legislation of the previous prison term, which does not decide on the bill and go back to reforming our law enforcement agencies, particularly the police and the prosecutor's office. Without solving these problems, all the other things are just a simulation of solving this problem and avoiding the responsibility of our citizens who are being held under non-human conditions, and the reform of the penitentiary service remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u194	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement, in one minute, there will be a vote, I ask everyone to come into the hall, take their jobs, ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and ask the secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u195	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The previous imprisonment is a man who has not yet been convicted and has no sentence. And a person can be held for decades, or more, we're not able to hold people illegally, and more so now that non-professionals are in the leadership of a country that keeps the disgruntled, and so on -- it'll only be convenient for the repression of people who will be against power. So I'm going to vote no.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u196	Colleagues, discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. But let the head of the committee sound the amendment, the deletion of the second paragraph, let it be correctly formulated for the transcript. Please, Mr. Andrew. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u197	Colleagues, if you will. Once again, if this bill is proposed to be accepted as a basis, that's natural, because just part of the article of the Criminal Code is going back to the way it was cleaned up in time. So if chapter II, paragraph 2, is deleted, "To the End" and "Transitional" positions of the bill, which are unnecessary, they are no longer necessary when part five of article 72 comes back, because this bill is not going to have any reverse action, it can be accepted as a whole. It's about the lines, it's about the lines, it's about the lines. And secondly, colleagues, today, for particularly serious and serious crimes, these rapists and murderers are sitting in the WHO. All those who even commit serious and moderate crimes tend to be taken into custody, go to their homes, go under house arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u198	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u199	So the very important motivation today for me personally is that the murderer, the rapist, and the person who betrayed the Fatherland — the traitor — should sit day by day. And everyone else today can go to any other procedure with the practice of court decisions. Circumstances. Grounds, I'm sorry. So I propose to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-18-m0.u200	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the rules on the imposition of sentences and the counting of the term of prior imprisonment (number 5534) on the proposal of the Committee on the basis and in general with the amendment issued by the head of the Committee, Cosemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, of the Supreme Council’s rostrum under the stenogram. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote! Please be supportive. Vote! [[14:04:42]] For 213 I'll be back. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues! I'm offering to go back to consideration 5534. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. Please take up your jobs and support the return to review 5534, colleagues. It's the fate of the people! It's an order of legislation that we've talked about a long time ago. Let's support it, fellows! Please vote for the return, 5534. Please vote, please support. [[14:05:38]] For 225 One, we didn't make it. Please come into the hall, please take your jobs, colleagues. Please, I'm returning to 5534, colleagues. Take your seats, colleagues. One voice was not enough. I ask you to vote 5534, return to 5534. Please support me, colleagues, please vote. Please vote for the return, colleagues. Vote. Every voice matters. Please. [[Noise Nodes]] Yes, return. [[14:06:17]] For 234 And I'm putting the bill of Law 5534 on the ground and, in general, the amendment that was made under the transcript of Cosemiakin. Yeah? Am I making the right bet? Guys, don't break up. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, what if the faction doesn't vote now, what do we vote on? We vote 5,534 on the basis and in general with the amendment of Cosemiakin. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. And please be careful -- every voice matters. Vote for it, please. [[14:07:12]] For 227 Law accepted, colleagues. I want to report that there is an exhibition at the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Teleženki artistic family on the embroidery day. And I ask everyone to participate and come to the exhibition to meet the ancient Ukrainian embroidery. And at that morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 16 o'clock, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work for the Motherland. Thank you.
