ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Everyone took up jobs. So, colleagues, I'd like to ask the national deputies to register. [[10:02:32]] 351 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Ivanovich Kiral. Welcome to our friend's birthday party. [[Applause]] Also, colleagues, I would like to report that there was a consultation yesterday between the heads of factions and the Committee on Budgets, and it was decided that the matter of the Court of Auditors should be further worked out because the factions did not share the opinion on this decision. And so this decision is passed on to work, and I'm going to separate the factions' heads for consultation on this issue. And we have two important blocks today -- this is a block of fuel-energy issues and a block of transport issues. And so I ask everyone to prepare for effective work. On Tuesday morning, we have article 25 of the Rules 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, reports. And, colleagues, I address all factions, colleagues, please. Are all the factions present? I'm asking that all the factions who want to speak now record the performances. Please record. So the word is from the Self-Help faction of Oleg Barresuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, I will speak of a despotic reality. The last three days have seen an incredible situation in our party. It's all right. The head of the district center, the substitute for the head of the shell: open criminal case, interrogation, unprincipled and groundless pressure. Luck. Head of Self-Help District Centre, City Council Secretary: illegally removed from duty. Moreover, last night the court renewed its mandate in connection with the conduct of a court hearing. But last night the same judge called and said, "The decision is off. I can't live under that kind of pressure." Zitomir. Yesterday, the city’s head, Zitomir, came from Kiev from a meeting. He calls the secretary of the council, the head of the cosmopolitan district center from Self-Help, and says, "There's a piece of paper on you, write your own application for release, because there's an order from Kiev for everyone from Self-Help to tear." Lviv. The head of the Self-Help District Center, the deputy head of the district council: moral persecution, voice-gathering, exclusion from. is planned from office. Lviv. Party leader: Lions to be besieged, bullied. Dear servants of the oligarchs, have you at times not confused the enemy? Do you remove and fight those who tell you the truth and help you maintain stability and trust in power in this country? Are you so loyal to the oligarchy and the Russian Empire that you have forgotten? You beat us on the cheek, we'll set up a second just to preserve this state. And this is very serious. That's why we're asking for power. Stop, for you will be grieved. Not from us. We're a small, weak political party, but we stand up for people's interests and we'll always be there for them. But the source of this authority in this country is the people, not the oligarchic clique. Remember that. The authorities are pushing on the path of Yanukovic’s former authority, and it is successfully heading into this nonexistence. Stop, for you will be grieved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Please give the next speech from the Opposition Block leader of the Yuri Boyke faction. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u4	Dear lady, head! Dear National Deputies! Last week we witnessed a sharp change in the position of leadership in relation to the Donbas blockade. During the month, the authorities branded the blockade’s organizers as a disgrace, taking the lead in the process, taking steps to separate parts of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and our citizens living there. This is a testimony to the weakness of power and capitulation in front of radical elements that occurred in the eyes of the entire world community. We call on the authorities to reverse the decision that shocked our fellow countrymen in these areas and surprised all our European partners, members of the Nordic group. We demand that we stop ignoring the rights of our citizens. Last week, parliament failed to consider bills to support nearly 2 million ATOs. We demand that we return to these issues this week and support our refugees by approving these bills. We urge Parliament to stop trying to divide citizens by a language principle by increasing quotas on Ukrainian television channels, which only divides the country. According to last week, no economic decision has been taken, no step has been taken to protect pensioners socio-economically. A state where 80 percent of the population is outside the poverty line cannot function normally. Therefore, the Parliament's priority should be to review the budget with a view to indexing pensions to an appropriate level of inflation. The money for this is, we've repeatedly shown the sources of funding that are in the state. But as the practice of speaking from this rostrum shows, calls for constructive work do not lead to anything. The only way to stop people's suffering from the inaction of this Parliament is to put an end to the election of the Supreme Council, but before that, to vote on budget changes and laws that will improve the lives of pensioners and low-income citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, from the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u6	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! I think this sessional week, if we open the agenda, this is a powerful testimony to how lobbyist decisions are the most important, it turns out, for most of this Parliament. Look at this agenda, and you will realize that in the past issues related to European integration, visa-free treatment, and the fight against corruption have gone down. And at first glance, it is clear that the order of the day is formed entirely from other approaches and principles. In this context, we may at last have the opportunity to have a frank conversation with what happened when the Board of Directors of the International Monetary Fund, by the way, did not publish the memorandum, and it is not clear on what conditions, planning to sign this agreement and provide another tranche, cancelled the decision and postponed the deadline for the issue of the allocation of the tranche to Ukraine. I think we have an open opportunity to talk about what happened. In particular, when the information sources were discovered, previous reports from the International Monetary Fund were received on key issues related to the reformist direction of the so - called reformist direction of the Ukrainian government. These questions are two. The first question is a question related to the implementation of a memorandum that none of the national deputies had seen and that was not discussed in this session room. And I think the key question is not really the question of putting ashes on our heads and claiming some of the dragon's requirements of the International Monetary Fund, because we are a party to these negotiations, and only we have the opportunity to accept these terms or not to accept them. But the second part of these reports is much more complex. In fact, two thirds of the previous report, which came into the open source, is about fighting corruption. And here we have four key directions, two of which we're looking at today. This is the actual failure of an audience to inspect the NAB, this is the question of stopping the fight against corruption, and this is the question of what has been happening to senior officials who were initially arrested in recent weeks, and they have been released under some incomprehensible conditions. I think all of this makes us change the order of the day and go back to the issues that concern our citizens so much. Unfortunately, we are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u7	Let me finish, please, 15 seconds. Thank you for your time, Mr. Sergei. From the People's Front, the leader of the Maxim Burbak faction. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u8	Dear Chairman, Ukrainian people! Success in the country is directly linked to the efficiency and effectiveness of government institutions. Parliament, the government and the President must work together to form the agenda, develop the country together, and respond together and quickly to the challenges. So as not to give the populists and the Kremlin cans a reason for provocation and unnecessary fuss. The most important thing today is political responsibility and constructive decisions. We should remember that the loss of every minute, hour, or day is a crime against the State. So the People's Front offers concrete steps for the development of the country and the exit from the crisis today. First. The People's Front believes that Ukraine, as a member of the UN Radbez, should initiate consultations in the form of the Budapest Memorandum. The United States and Britain must be involved in the negotiation process. It is obvious that Russia will not comply with the Minsk Accords. The coalition of leading nations of the world, along with Ukraine, must force the Kremlin to surrender. The other one. Ukraine needs the territorial integrity of the country, not the frozen conflict. The People's Front is ready to propose a bill to restore territorial integrity. When we write the bill, we're ready to work with other democratic forces and social organizations. Above all, this law should contain not only a statement of the temporary occupation of territories but also the definition of the successive steps taken to free the Ukrainian territories and the return of Lugansk, Donetsk and Crimea to Ukraine. And the main thing is full support for the hall. Third, the issue of privatization of state property. Arsenius Yatsenuk, as head of government, has repeatedly put this issue in order of the day, and Parliament has not supported it. Instead, government businesses continue to steal. The Odessa import plant, for example, made 250 million profits under the government of Yatsenuk. After Saakashvili's inventions, one and a half billion damages, a failed privatisation plan. And there are many examples of this. Fourth, pension and medical reform. We welcome the decision to raise social standards. We know that the government and the President are taking concrete steps towards social welfare for pensioners and the systemic steps taken to reform the health system. We expect a decision as soon as possible. Fifth, judge. Parliament has adopted constitutional changes. We believe that there is an anticorruption chamber in the Supreme Court of Ukraine, but the Supreme Court needs to be formed. Process started, but not completed. We are awaiting the formation of a new Supreme Court of Ukraine and the continuation of judicial reform to the lowest link – the local courts. We voted for amendments to the Constitution, the laws on the judiciary, and the Supreme Council of Justice. We've done our job, now it's the competence of the High Council of Justice, the President and the Government to complete it and implement it. Sixth, the Financial Investigation Service. As Prime Minister Arsenij Yatzenuk twice submitted to the Supreme Council a bill on the service of financial investigations, then the members of Parliament did not support it. We're proposing to create a financial investigation service, take them to the C.I.A., the D.A., the D.A., the I.D.D., and hand them over to the civilian financial investigation service.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u10	We've created electronic offices for taxpayers. This reform is a time to complete: to assign leadership, to eliminate district taxes -- it's not necessary, it's a rudimentary. There are electronic services, and taxes should be paid on the basis of documents, not on the basis of personal communication with accountants and pressure, on the basis of a financial result, rather than on the basis of a plan that has to be made from above. Seventh: Audit of NABU. Enough to politicize that question. The law provides for the presence of three members of the NABA audit. So both candidates can work there. That's our plan. If there's another one, tell me, we'll take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. Thank you very much. And the next one comes from the Radical Party, Light leader of the Oleg Lazko faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to inform you that on October 21, 2016, 180 Ukrainian national deputies registered a draft Act amending article 99 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the extension and improvement of the constitutional function of the National Bank of Ukraine to ensure the economic growth of Ukraine. We propose to extend the responsibilities of the National Bank of Ukraine and to place, in addition to the implementation of monetary policy aimed at the stability of the currency exchange rate, additional responsibilities on the National Bank, this is the realization of the potential for long-term economic growth of the country, the provision of price and exchange stability of the monetary unit, the moderate level of long-term interest rates and the promotion of maximum employment of the population. The Ukrainian economy will never be competitive, and Ukrainian citizens will never be rich if we have 30 percent of the credit in a commercial bank. We're losing now compared to foreign producers. Our production is immediately becoming uncompetitive. We go to the International Monetary Fund, we borrow loans that have to be returned, instead of changing the National Bank's monetary policy -- and giving cheap and long loans to national producers. As in Poland, as in any other country of the world, in the United States, in Britain, Japan: the national bank's zero rate. And we have dragons. As a result, our production is uncompetitive. I appeal to Parliament's head on demand. Let us now include in the agenda the changes to the Constitution in the extension of the obligations of the National Bank of Ukraine, the commission of the committee to review and refer to the Constitutional Court without delay. No government, no Supreme Council will do anything if the National Bank doesn't give cheap credit to national producers to produce, industry, farmers and all of our other manufacturers so that they can have cheap loans so that we don't get paid for these loans around the world, but that we can make our own profits by selling our products, creating jobs for Ukrainians, paying taxes to the State Budget, raising wages. The only surest way to overcome poverty is to radically raise the income of Ukrainians. An increase in Ukrainian income is possible under one condition: when national production works, not a banana colony, which is being converted into Ukraine today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u13	Thank you. I would like to report that the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution has a special procedure and should be considered by the Committee, and I ask the Committee to consider this issue so that we can consider it at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Nemirowski Andry Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! I don't often come out of this important rostrum. But I want to pay your attention, I've asked you a few questions about the agenda. I've explained, I've asked for your attention, but now I demand to put Bill 5119-1 to the vote. This requires neither conscience nor European standards, but our conscience. All those who have yet to live in the heart are obliged to vote for the humane treatment of animals. Throughout the district centers right now, while I'm explaining human principles from this rostrum, there's a peaceful rally of zookeepers where hundreds of thousands of people are willing to stand up for the need to increase the punishment of scoundrels willing to defend humanity, to prove that we don't care how we treat our smaller brothers. We must not ignore the public opinion and position of the people. I remind you, this is where we are chosen to implement the people's will to the rules of law. I also have a great request to the honourable presiding officer. In order to avoid manipulation, today it is time to resolve the issue and put to a vote the question of an audience in the NAB because it is an overemphasis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Colleagues, today will be a chapter for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. And 5119 we can list whether there will be general support in the bill room. From the "Will of the People" group, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Translates the word Volodymyr of Lithuania. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u16	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Almost 100 years ago, Mikhailo Gruszewski prophetically stated, "Usage of Ukraine is governed by those who do not need it." Think, dear colleagues, Stalin was unable to subdue Ukraine. Hitler was unable to reach his plans for Ukraine. Today’s reformers, turning their sleeves around their necks, have worked so hard that in three years the country fell. Clearly, under the direction and direction of the International Monetary Fund. And now we're being rekindled by the positions that are recorded in the next memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. I think it's time to stop drooling about it and give us an official version. And I think we're all smart people, our people are smart, they'll figure it out. Yesterday at a public meeting called the Council of Regions, there was a rumor that everything is growing and rising in Ukraine. Clearly, the claim would grow and more would have been raised if it had not been for Russia and not for internal enemies, including those present in this session hall and in fact make up the majority as a coalition. At the same time, no speaker took the floor, and how does this reform feel to be a simple, average Ukrainian? In no way has it been said that 90 percent of people have been put to their knees by prices and tariffs! In no word did they say that Ukraine was doomed to extinction. That the absence of roads and the corresponding transport connections are turned by people glazing in remote villages with which there is absolutely no connection! I'm not talking about all the other problems anymore. The health problem. I was surprised to read the latest reply from the Ministry of Health. There are no drugs, think about it, because there is now a tender for funding in 2016! I have a question before the coalition is here. Why are you holding on to a minister or acting as a minister, protecting the minister's health?Oh, my God! What's she doing to you?Oh, my God! You don't know how to lick it?Oh, my God! And the last. In this life, respected colleagues, we have betrayed and betrayed us. But there was no such thing as betraying the entire Ukrainian people! That's not supposed to happen! And I'm sure it won't be if we become the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u17	And a closing statement from the Rebirth Party, Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, with the adoption of the 2017 budget, good work was done to raise the minimum wage. And this was particularly true of the workers in the entire budget area of Ukraine. These are school workers, kindergarten workers, hospitals, and so forth. Unfortunately, though, the situation has arisen that by raising the minimum wage we have practically compensated in many ways the salaries of the technical staff who serve these state institutions, namely schools, gardens, hospitals, etc., and highly qualified workers, that is, doctors, teachers, and so on. Our party has drafted a bill, passed a bill, and it is now going through Parliament, No.6146, which is equalizing this situation, which helps people who do high-quality work to become a little bit higher in terms of wage provision. Our bill sets the minimum wage, the tariff grid, depending on the size of the salary. This will provide an opportunity to raise salaries for highly qualified government officials, for highly qualified doctors, teachers, representatives of institutions, and so forth. And that's a perfectly logical step to support. That is why we insist that this bill pass through the Supreme Council this week and be voted on and that, from the second half of the year, this funding go through the state budget. The other one. In the last three years, the government has abolished many social guarantees, benefits, special assistance for children, young families, and so forth. We have registered Bill No.6063, which renews state support for young families, which reintroduces and restores the progressive state aid system at the birth of the child and spends up to three years in support of these children. We propose this bill to pay 50 living minimums at the birth of the first child, i.e. 67 thousand 750 dollars; at the birth of the second child, 94,000 850; at the birth of the third and subsequent child, 135 thousand 500 dollars. This will be a real state aid for young families and will stimulate demographic growth in Ukraine. I think this bill is extremely relevant. Let's run it through Parliament immediately and start funding these payments from the next half-year. The bill also proposes state support for children’s kindergartens and schools under 3 years of age, as well as other social support for young families today. That is why we insist that the bill be urgently considered in the Supreme Council and foreseen for funding from the second half of 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u19	Thank you. So, colleagues, all the heads of factions and groups are speaking out, and we can move on to the agenda. Colleagues, I would like to emphasize to you, last week, the plenary week, was the requirement for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act on Amendments to the Higher Education Act on the Education and Qualificational Level of the "Younger Specialist" (5,240). We just couldn't get to the point. But in all the consultations we see that all the factions support it, the law is urgent and needs immediate solutions. And I'm very much asking that we look at it quickly and effectively. Now I'm going to put the motion to the vote first so that we can look at it in a reduced procedure. And I ask everyone to support this proposal so that we can go through a full day's work. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, colleagues. The first question I'm going to ask is the proposal and the consideration of the simplified procedure. Please, we're taking up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the "younger specialist" level of education (5240) under the shorter procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:31:36]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u20	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! We're looking at an unusual bill. It's actually a law that decides the fate of 27,000 students at the third level of accreditation, it decides the fate of 70,000 people who provide activity. Above all, we need to understand that 5240 solves the ecosystem in general and the education ecosystem in Ukraine. Because we have this very powerful level of education that we've always called special and secondary education, which just forms a "sergeant composition" for an innovative component economy. Do we have a pretension before this? Yes, we must decide that this system works effectively. But by breaking through the knee, as it is now, we're actually destroying this education chain. I want to say that this issue has not been resolved through the legislative field, because Minust did not impose this acceptance order, and as a result of September 1, the technicians and colleges will no longer be able to accept it, they have no opportunity to carry out a professional job. Today, by voting for this law as a whole, we will be able to actually start this work and get the kids to technicians and colleges that will keep a balance between trade, technology, colleges and higher education institutions. Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Education and Science, as a professional ministry, supports this bill, there are some comments from Minfin. But what I'm saying is, we get, on average, 60,000 children in a year, they're not the kind of money that we have to break this system for. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this law regardless of your political views.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u21	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u22	It's the fate of 27,000 children and the fate of 80,000 people that ensure the functioning of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u23	Please record: two in, two in. The People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u24	Bondar Mikhailo. Would you please pass it on to Petty Officer Taras?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u25	Cream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, please support this bill and pay attention to the components. In fact, this document gives us the start of an introductory campaign at the Ukrainian trade institutes, thereby helping our educational institutions, which are market-oriented jobs that are focused on regional procurement, to provide qualified personnel for our enterprises that will work for the development of the Ukrainian economy, which will provide for the filling of budgets that will create all the necessary conditions for balance in our national budget. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill can in fact become an intermediate link until the Education Act is passed, which will address systemic issues that will lay the groundwork for reforming education in the near future. And thirdly, by this document, we're essentially giving a signal to our heads of industry, our students the hope that soon we'll have a law and a professional education that we'll essentially complete the cycle of reforming the education system. Please support this document, the People's Front faction votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u27	From the Radical Party, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u28	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction supports this bill as all of the bills aimed at the development of Ukrainian education, Ukrainian science. Today we need to pay special attention to the development of Ukrainian vocational and technical education. It is absolutely right that Mr. Spiowakovsky said that today, if we lose this education chain, it means that tomorrow we will lose Ukrainian youth, because unemployment is now 25 percent among young people. The day after tomorrow we lose the Ukrainian industry and the economy, the next step is to lose Ukrainian sovereignty. This script is not allowed under any circumstances. We have to do everything today to build a system of education that aims at developing the Ukrainian economy, so that we can prepare those labor professions that hold on to any modern economy in the world. You can't ignore industry, you can't ignore jobs. Moreover, social protection needs to be strengthened today and special conditions must be made for the introduction of children in rural areas who are internally displaced. Today, all important influences must be included in order to guarantee their rights. Because it's not just a question of education and science, it's a question of Ukraine's ability as an independent country, it's a question of our future. If we lose professional and technical education today, we'll lose sovereign democracy in Ukraine, because we'll depend only on the International Monetary Fund tranches. And we need to depend on what kind of taxes our industry pays and our economy has to develop. So all of the priority measures that are geared towards the development of vocational and technical education and other links to our education, we need to support and develop today. And, of course, this has to be guaranteed the state funding of Ukrainian PTUs. The Radical Party faction is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u29	Thank you. Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I don't think there will be anyone in this room who won't vote for this law. Because he's really making it possible to develop vocational and technical education. I mean, in Uman, I have two professional and technical institutions in my district, and I really need to support them. Because if they close, today we're going to have unemployment, a drop in production that we still have, unfortunately. And that's why, of course, we have to stimulate it. So I'm asking everyone in this room to support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u31	From the will of the people, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u32	Please give it to Sergio Labazuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u33	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! There is now a very important bill that needs to be given the opportunity of secondary education for vocational schools, for higher education institutions at the third level of accreditation to adopt the learning process. What is the situation today? After the adoption of the Higher Education Act in 2014, the status of colleges and technicians has remained suspended for two years. Thus, the introduction to higher education institutions of the I-II level of accreditation in 2017 to the educational and qualification level of the junior specialist is now blocked by legislation. Convinced that breaking up the admission of students to higher education institutions in the I-II level of accreditation of schools, technicians, colleges in the current and subsequent years could cause a major social explosion. I was approached by the Hmelnick political college and the board of directors of higher education institutions I and II. They ask us to pay attention to the matter. It should be noted that the qualifications of graduates are quite high. Today, there is a big demand for the professions. You and I can't let this matter go to waste. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u34	From Fatherland, Sergey Eutuszek, two minutes, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u35	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, the previous call was passed by the Higher Education Act, and there was a transitional period for how the secondary education facilities would work -- they were technicians and colleges. As of 2016, the adoption of children has stopped. So I want to say that the "Fatherland" faction not only says that we will support this bill, but we ask the entire parliament to support all of our colleagues, because to us and to you, I, including, I am sure, refer to the labour teams, to the students, to the people who need to make a transition period, to allow them to take children into these educational institutions, which are, from the Spyowakovsky, the head of the committee, who have clearly taught statistics, to learn from these institutions. These are tens of thousands of our children. And tens of thousands also carry out, regulate this learning process. I want to say that the non-admission of this bill will lead to social upheaval, social upheaval, maybe, because 70 to 80 percent of the children who get out of education facilities stay in the villages working, go because they get the labor jobs that then give them the opportunity to work in their homeland. More than 700 facilities are now in suspension. There's a working group in the Ministry that's supposed to do all the work. Maybe this should be a sectoral approach -- it's also one of the versions. And this task force has to clearly determine what to do with the status, as an example, of the younger baccalaureate, which today is actually but is not accompanied by the learning process. That's why Fatherland is calling for everyone to vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u36	Thank you. From the "Peter Prashenko Block" of Soloway. Please, Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u37	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Ladies and gentlemen, I have once and for all spoken out of this rostrum, and I will continue to speak out about education as a basic area to which public investment should be directed. Because we can clearly see that today those countries are demonstrating their successful development, which they're investing in intelligence, and those countries that have the ability to engage better brains from around the world. I want to give you a few figures from this high rostrum so that both the national MPs and the Ukrainian citizens understand the state of things in global education. For example, Harvard University’s annual budget is $32 billion. That's 10 billion more than the entire budget of Ukraine. The average budget for the average University of Canada is 2 and a half billion dollars, which is more than all of Ukraine’s spending on the education sector. And that's why I'm saying on a number of occasions that education in our country, starting with school, completing higher education, should be the focus of public investment. Those countries that get good intelligence, those countries that have the ability to train good professionals, have a good chance of their own development. If we're talking about technicians and colleges, I think that each of us who studied at the university had the opportunity to compare how big the difference is when trained kids come from college or from technology, and when kids come from the school bench. And that's why this link in education in Ukraine is one of the most professional and basic, and our task is not just to prevent it from being destroyed, but our task as national deputies is to make sure that this very link of education is preserved in order to invest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u38	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u39	that the state's investment in this education chain should not be reduced, but increased. I call for the support of all the national MPs not only on the basis but also on the whole this very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u41	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. We will support this bill because it is the final link in the education reform system, although this reform is not clear. Most importantly, the bill does not provide a clear understanding of how PTS will work, what role they will play in the training system. You know, especially since the adoption of the Law on the Financing of Vocational and Technical Schools, when we have practically transferred the problem to local authorities, we have not added clarity on this issue. We're losing middle class today. We're losing specialists who used to. Let's talk about the kind of people's farms we've been holding. And today, when we speak, we are theoretically thinking about what needs to be done, yes, it is necessary, but we must understand one thing: without a clear perspective of the country's economy as a whole, without the development of the State, we cannot today talk about the correctness or wrongness of building a training system. We've got it. After you talk about it from the rostrum, we now state that we have completed the training reform system, that we still have the understanding of unfinished, unresolved issues, both with primary education, both with secondary education and with higher education. These problems will and will be hanging, unfortunately, until we understand the State's overall economic development strategy, which we must base on. Therefore, once again, in order not to deter the process, we will vote in favour of the bill on first reading. But I think we should sit and think for a long time and how we can build a training platform for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u42	Colleagues, discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Please and the secretariat of the Supreme Council invite deputies, and the heads of factions please invite the deputies to the Hall. Until the MPs come in, one more minute, Krivenko. Please turn on the microphone. And please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u43	Dear Chairman! Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. First of all, with regard to this law. I've had a lot of colleges from Kamyansky's own, and economics, and technology, and industrial, and a lot of managers, and I'm asking you to support everyone. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to refer to the Minister of Internal Affairs to the Attorney-General for personal control. In Ivano-Frankishte, in the Rogatin district, the Stratov village, a woman was murdered, who is the wife of our member of the People's Movement, the head of the village council of the People's Movement, who was tortured, demanding 10,000 dollars, because they sold the cow. This crime took place on March 15, this year. On that day, she was to be 58 years old. Similarly, the head of the village council was tortured. And it's a huge request to get these two crimes under personal control so that the killer of the Grandfather of Hope will be punished. I just spoke to the district attorney, he said it was a matter of personal control.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u44	Please speak on the subject of the bill. No, we're going to make a decision now, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues! I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the "younger specialist" level. First, I make a proposal to the committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please back up, fellows! Let us support education, support our colleagues. We're voting 5240 as a whole. Please vote. Vote. [[10:50:27]] For-286 The law is passed. I said, just be careful when you're looking at it. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. On the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an external control committee for the independent evaluation (audit) of the effectiveness of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. I would like to remind you that in accordance with part six of article 26 of the Ukrainian Law, an independent evaluation (audit) of the effective activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, its operational and institutional activities are carried out each year. On the Committee of the Supreme Council on Prevention and Opposition, two candidates for the post, Robert Storch and Nigel Brown, were discussed at their meeting. However, it was recommended that the Supreme Council decide on the support of candidates for the post by voting. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal that there should be a procedure on this issue for all factions to be able to speak up and speak up. Thus, it is recommended that a presentation be made by the committee, Artushenko Igor Andriyovich. And then come out of all the factions. No objections? There's no objection. Then. I have been served, member of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, Artushenko Igor Andriyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then, the performances of all the factions, then the ratings vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again, Artushenko Igor Andryovich is appointed by the committee. So, colleagues, let's move on to this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I would like to give the floor to a report from the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption by Artushenko Igor Andryovich. Please. Artushenko, report. Are you ready to report? Turn on the microphone Artushenko Igor, Artushenko Igor Andryovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to turn on Artushenko's microphone for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u45	The Committee in Preventing and Opposing Corruption at its meeting on 16 March 17th, taking into account the results of the ratings vote that took place in Parliament in this Chamber on February 23rd, and at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, Andria Paruba, has reviewed the question of the appointment of a candidate from. [[B in m in s a l in]] An external review commission from an independent evaluation, i.e. an audit, of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Two candidatures were considered at the committee meeting, or the same ones that were put on the floor before that, namely, Nigel Brown and Robert Storch. As we recall, Robert Storch’s candidate in this room won 76 votes in the polls. Instead, Nigel Brown’s candidacy won 205 votes, but no decision was taken. So on March 16, our committee met again to consider the matter. As a result of the discussion, a decision has been made that is very compromising, I think, diplomatic and correct. This is again to be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by two candidates and to be put to a rating vote in order for the Assembly, or national deputies, to be determined by the National Deputies, which candidature is more worthy of conducting an independent evaluation of the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Thank you. Please continue to speak from all factions, and I think this is the most democratic procedure, because we have two candidates, and let each of us decide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, to stop the speculation, I want to let you know, I'm about to have a committee decision, I'm going to give a committee decision. I conducted a legal complete study on the subject. There's a committee decision, it's in order. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll pass it to you. And only according to the committee's decision is it being considered. I'm asking the heads of factions. I ask the heads of factions to record factions in the discussion of this issue. Please record from factions. Please, Dubil Valery Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u47	Ivan Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u48	The oak is passed to John Krulk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u49	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, this is not a regular question that is currently being considered in Parliament, I am addressing the Ukrainian people today. The point is that Parliament has to identify an auditor to verify the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is the composition of Parliament. I want to remind you that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau will be inspected by three audiences appointed by one: The President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Even now, the President's Administration is not allowing Parliament to appoint any independent audience. Who was identified by the profile committee? The profile committee appointed Mr. Storch as the head of the audience. This is the person who takes the position of deputy inspector general of the Department of Justice of the United States. A person who is a professional auditor and has conducted audits, including institutions such as the FBI in the United States. Which, by the way, the new President Trump's team has already transferred to a new post by its administration. It does the same independently for both the democratic administration and the republican administration. But this candidate is no match for the Presidential Administration. Why? Because he's going to be able to do the audit independently. I have a very clear question: What is the next time to be ashamed of the candidacy that has arisen? This is the kind of scandal that caused in this session hall. A candidate named Brown, who was unable to answer the question: who invited him, who offered him, what he had experience in his work, and what he would actually do in that position. So, of course, this is not a question of order, this is a question that concerns the honor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the Fatherland faction will support Storch's candidacy as an auditor of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And I urge the conscious deputies to stop below the plentice to leave the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's really make a national decision and define at least one independent audience for this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u50	Before I give the floor, I want to remind you that two candidates have been nominated, and this is the principle of democracy, when the Supreme Council will determine for itself how to vote and act. Please, from Semenach's Self-Help, pass the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! I want each of you to understand that this decision is being followed by a very, very large number of citizens. The Automidan is on his way to Parliament, and there are already people in Parliament who are worried about trying to put the independence of the Anti-Corruption Bureau at risk. You're being dragged into the equipment, you're well aware that there was no committee decision. Even that small group of people who gathered and signed the decision asked him to report to Yuri Savichuk, a representative of the People's Front, who is not in Parliament today, for which we are all very grateful. For sometimes when pressure is exerted on a person, it is better not to come and share in sinning. Ladies and gentlemen, in the career of each of you, this vote will be marked by men and will remain forever. In fact, you and I in this Parliament have created legislation for the Anti-Corruption Bureau for its independence. You and I have delegated to the people who chose Artem Sitnik. You and I have sanctioned the criminal responsibility of the First National Deputy, whose crimes were investigated by the Anti-Corruption Bureau, this is about Alexander Onishtenka. And today, Alexander Oneshchenka's case is breaking a circular message of kleptocracy. This is the credit of this House, it is the credit of everyone who voted in favour of these decisions. Do not let yourself be led into a political grave! There are a few people in this country who fear that they will be next, to whom the NAMA Special Forces will follow Roman Nasir. But what are you up to? Why are you involved in this? Let's look at the situation from the other side. This isn't about Robert Storch, it's not about Nigel Brown. If it causes such fraud, such manipulation by procedures, let's start acting as normal as we've done here many times. I am ready to reconvene our Parliamentary Committee against Corruption in order to discuss and make recommendations to the Supreme Council from the outset. I have been asked by all political forces to meet candidates who will be an auditor of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. But do not ruin its independence. First of all, it's not going to work, it's going to cause the indignation of people. Don't take this sin for granted. Self-help is asking for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u52	From "Peter Prashenko's Block" by Chicken Maksim Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u53	I ask you to pass the word to John Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! First of all, I want to remind the previous speaker, and those who are now standing at the rostrum, that the Anti-Corruption Committee is not your private structure, it doesn't even appear and never appear. What you're going to do is you're going to turn it into, you're going to zing the population and you're saying there's a minority that's always opposed to you. By no means, there is a majority who express their thoughts and begs and make you consider them, these thoughts. So I want to tell you, honourable Members, the decision has been taken unanimously by the members of the Anti-Corruption Committee, which were at the meeting, and that was most, to put two candidates into the Hall on request to speed up the selection of an independent candidate to review the NABA at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council. And that's why. Before that. From Peter Poshenko's Block, from our brothers in the People's Front and all the other conscious members of the Supreme Council who want justice in the end, Nigel Brown's candidacy was introduced. We've done everything we can to remove the artificial disunity in society and remove the artificial disunity in Parliament. And so we made two nominations, although I remind you that two factions and other people's deputies have nominated and are supporting Nigel Brown. I want to tell you, and once again I want you to stop piling up everyone and everyone who doesn't want to do your will. Stop slandering everyone and anyone who has a different opinion. Once again, it was the President who created the Anti-Corruption Bureau that the President, along with us, signed this law and gave an independent body to Ukraine. But we are now choosing a person who needs to see if everything is going right there. If everything is right, why are you afraid, why is there so much noise all over the country? Let's pick a really decent person, let's vote for him. Once again, stop piling yourself up, because no one but you is watering one of the candidates' dirt anymore. The second candidate said we didn't do it, and we never do it, and we don't take it out of his head, even though we can do it when we need it, but we don't need it. So we act more democratically and more tolerantly than you do. Please keep that in mind. I therefore ask Parliament to support the candidature. Well, first of all, we're asking you to support Nigel Brown. Second, please vote as your heart commands you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u55	Please, from the People's Front, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, during today's speech, I immediately emphasized that we believe that we should and that the hall has the right to determine who to support. And we will not treat politicians who impose one candidature that they like. I want to remind you that the NABA was created in this session hall, this assembly of parliament to fight corruption in the higher echelons of power. And that was Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk's submission, and we must finally make it work effectively. Yeah, now it's a little inefficient, yeah, there's a question of selective persecution, but finally we're all interested here to get the audit started and it's going to take place transparently, publicly and as openly as possible. So in order for this body to work according to its tasks, we must endure all procedures when it is chosen. So I support the committee's decision when it's been proposed for the selection of the hall, I repeat, for the selection of two candidates. There can't be a dictatorship of one political power that takes over everything in this country, and then hides in the trash -- that's what I'd say. Let's make two nominations, and the whole room has the right to choose, not you. You see, I've had some discussions with our deputies, members of this committee. Stop blackmailing and scaring people! We were already scared! So, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to bring two candidates to the table, and allow the majority in this room to express their wish about who will be in the NABU, in the NABU Audit. And next. There are three candidates: from the Supreme Council, from the President, from the government. So I think today we're going to set up a parliamentary candidate, and let's keep this process going, to create this body. The other one. Mr. President has to submit his candidacy. And I think these two candidates have an impeccable reputation. Let's choose a candidate from the Supreme Council, and then the President will make a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u57	From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u58	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you of the radical party's position on what's happening in the hall right now, why there are lists breaking around the audience's candidate for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Because according to the Law on NABU, only the negative conclusion of the NAB may be the basis for the release of the director of NABU. And that's why the authorities are today trying to get the audience they need to reach in order to take the necessary conclusion -- and then get a basis for the release of the director of the NAB. The Radical Party faction does not take part in these games, and the brothers will not for the following reasons. First, we didn't see either candidate. They weren't on the faction, they weren't talking about themselves, we don't know their professional qualities. Secondly, we are absolutely convinced that there are three Ukrainians in 45 million Ukraine, not quacks and browns, to conduct an audit of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. We think of it as a demonstration of small value, of our country's humiliation in front of the world, when we say this is a candidate from the American Embassy, this candidate from Connon, this candidate from someone else. I ask, Why are we being imposed on outside management? Why do you, honourable MPs, consider it possible to humiliate the country by demonstrating to the world that the Ukrainians are unable to overcome corruption themselves, to bring the country into a state of self-renewal. We were accused of having Yanukovic run by the Russian embassy. I'm asking, what better way to manage a U.S. embassy guard? Ukrainians must rule in their own country! Both corruption to overcome, and the economy to raise, and jobs for Ukrainians to create, and wages and pensions to raise. We respect our partners — European, American. But we do not interfere with the internal affairs of the United States or European countries. We're not telling President Trump who he's supposed to appoint. I ask why someone has the right to tell us how to live. I demand respect for the thousand - year - old Ukrainian nation, this land, covered with the blood of Ukrainians, respect for our people, our nation, and give us the opportunity and the right to decide for ourselves the fate of our own nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u59	Colleagues, pay attention! The factions have ended. I want to tell you again, colleagues. There is a committee decision, and this committee decision is checked by the apparatus. There are two major factions required. Let's go through this story. [[B in m in s a l in]] From "the will of the people" yet, right? From the will of the people, Sergey Melnichuk. And after that, we're going to go through the ratings vote. Please, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! I'm surprised the son of a Russian Cossack. The reverend, more specifically, advocates an American official. I'm surprised the rostrum is blocked. And why didn't you block this rostrum when you had to block it here instead of blocking it with blockers? We had to block here, and we didn't lose Ukrainian land on Donbassa. Yeah, yeah, a lot of reporters, not deputies here. The "will of the people" group will vote in favour of both candidatures, the main thing is that the process will move forward so that the auditions will begin and the system will start to work. We don't care if the American is going to pass this time, or whether the British, the Englishman, we're going to take the next time it's Ukrainian, so we have more time to pick up our Ukrainian specialist who will take the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u61	Thank you. So we're going to the rating vote. And I ask my fellow MPs to determine which of the candidates will vote more, and it will be in favour of the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And only the Supreme Council can determine which of the candidates to put and whether one of the candidates today will get the required number of votes. So I'm going to call it my name, and I'm going to ask you to identify yourself for support. The first one on the committee, I'm betting on Robert Storch's vote. Who supports Robert. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, right? Please, I'll wait. Did you guys take all the seats? There's a rating vote coming up, who gets more, who's going to be put up for approval. Can I bet? So whoever supports Robert Storch, the rating vote, please vote. Please vote. [[11:13:50]] For 178. Another candidate is Nigel Brown. Who supports Nigel Brown's vote, please vote. Please vote. [[11:14:14]] For 202 In the rating vote, he gained more support from Nigel Brown. By factions, turn on the factions. Seen by factions. According to the results of the rating vote and in accordance with article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the question of the appointment of Nigel Brown as a member of the External Control Board for conducting an independent evaluation (audit) of the effective activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is put to the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:15:12]] For-200 The decision is not taken. And I'm giving the commission to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Prevention and Anti-Corruption to work on this issue. This is a matter for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please carry out your work in a normal, peaceful environment for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. We now have a day block of fuel-energy complex in order. We have the first block, the second reading. And I'm moving on to the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Heat Supply on Promoting Heat Energy Production from Alternative Energy Sources No.4334. And I emphasize, this is the second reading, colleagues. Right is not much. So please stay in the hall. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security of Dombrovo's Alexander Georgievic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u62	I understand that, after such a hot political vote, it is very difficult to adjust to another topic of discussion. But I would like to draw the attention of all the people's deputies to the fact that the subject of energy security and energy independence in Ukraine, especially today at this stage of the development of the Ukrainian economy, is no less relevant than the topic that we have just discussed and debated before. I'll give you just a few examples. And did you know that last year, in 16, Ukraine consumed 34 billion cubic metres of gas, 14 billion of which Ukraine purchased for imports, paying more than $3 billion of the country's gold reserves. I'm going to bring in another number and a topic that's very hot today in the parliament walls -- a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. So in order to ask for $1 billion of credit resources, we need to go with you to a number of very serious positions, including social, lower social standards, in order to get $1 billion from the International Monetary Fund. I'm asking questions. What does it take to make Ukrainian money work for the economy of Ukraine instead of working for the economy of our neighbours in independence where we buy this gas, in Europe or in Europe, Russian gas? Basically, in order to leave $1 billion to the Ukrainian economy every year to create jobs, to provide energy security, we need to save you, reduce imports by 4 billion cubic meters. Bill 4334 allows, provides a system-wide institutional tool to make the import, in fact, de facto Russian gas, for which we pay the currency so that we can replace it with a Ukrainian energy resource. I'd like you to look at this slide. Over 100 million tons, this agrarian powerful country of Ukraine is able to use agricultural waste to replace imported natural gas. And we're allowing this bill to make this very important decision. I'd like to emphasize two positions. First. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u63	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u64	I would like to highlight a few basic positions. First. What does Bill 3344 offer? We're setting a heat tariff on Ukrainian energy resources, which is presented on this slide, which is just 90 percent of the heat tariff of imported natural gas. We allow local self-government authorities to set these tariffs and give them a tool because today, due to very serious changes in the regulatory base of local self-government, they have no ability and no methodology to properly set these tariffs. And I think that this bill gives us a very good chance of reducing the import of natural gas, reducing the cost of our gold reserves, leaving in the economy of Ukraine the cost that the Ukrainian economy produces, and creating some 50,000 new jobs, to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u65	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u66	And it allows us to run our machinery factories so that Ukrainian equipment is used to modernize Ukraine's energy sector. Last digit. In three years, Ukraine saved more than 7 billion feet [7 billion m] of cubic gas and built nearly 1.7 gigawatts of new thermal power. These paces need to be sustained. I ask you to support this bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u67	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the right. Right is not much, but I ask the right-wing authors to prepare for work. So 2 revisions, Babak. Don't insist. 4th, Babak. Don't insist. 11th, Dove. Don't insist. 12th, Kobtsev. Don't insist. 13th, Dove. Don't insist. 15th, Odarchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u68	Respectful colleagues, one of the alternative sources of fuel produced from wood, such as the so - called pellets. There's a problem with illegal logging all over Ukraine right now. I have serious fears that in order to benefit from the use of alternative fuels, they will cut down trees and produce pellets and other similar products. So I ask the local executive authorities to be obliged to control the origins of alternative fuel sources made from wood, otherwise without proper control, we simply lose our landings and our forests. Please support Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u69	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I support the concern of my fellow national MP. But I can say it that way. Let us ban and close the production of furniture in Ukraine because it can also lead to such consequences. We're talking about Ukrainian biomass, which today comes from agricultural production in Ukraine first. And there's a lot of waste in the wood sector of Ukraine that's needed, and it's a completely civilized European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u71	Do you insist on voting? So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 15 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies, which is rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:23:59]] For-69 The decision is not made. 17th, Dove. Don't insist. 24th, Kobts, don't insist. 25th, Dove, don't insist. 26th, Babak, don't insist. 29th, Babak, don't insist. 36th, Odarchenko? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the reporter has a bit of a twist, no one forbids the production of fuel from wood. Only my amendments provided for agreement with the local authorities to determine the source of the raw material. Amendment 36 is that illegal logging is now a huge problem for the whole state, especially for the Herson region, where almost half of the forests have been destroyed by sanitation, which is why the area is already suffering from dust storms. I think that an alternative fuel from wood could be a big problem for our nation, because it's the destruction of our forest arrays. So I propose that those who will use pellets and other wood as fuel submit fuel reports so that the licensing authority can control where it comes from. Quite logically correct, please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u73	Colleagues, now I'm going to give a comment to Alexander Georgievich, but this is the last amendment, and that's why I'm asking. And so I'm asking you to invite all the people's deputies into the hall, and I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall to take up jobs. We're done discussing the bill, and we're about to move on to making a decision. And I would like to give the floor to Alexander Georgiyovich, please. Yeah, 36 revisions, wait, I'll put 36 votes to the vote. Therefore, whoever supports the 36-law of the Odarchenk People's Deputy, the Committee has rejected it, who supports it, please vote. [[11:26:24]] For-96 The decision is not made. So we went through all the amendments that were made to the committee. And, please, a minute, Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich. And after a minute of voting. Please, Alexandre Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u74	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! I understand that there are many issues in this parliamentary room that can divide us, which we are discussing with you, and we are looking for a common perspective. But I would like to believe that the question of the country’s energy independence and the energy security of our country is a key issue that should unite the entire hall in independence from political factions and political parties. 4334 is a tool that enables Ukraine to be energy independent and energy-efficient. So I ask all my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u75	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, we're taking up seats, and I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Heat Supply Act to stimulate the production of heat from alternative energy sources (number 4334) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. All factions support this bill, let's vote together. Vote, colleagues, 4334 in second reading and in general. Vote. [[11:28:27]] For 222 Colleagues, please mobilize, I'll put you back. Please mobilize. Just ask the deputies to take jobs right now, colleagues. So, are you ready? I'll bet on my return, colleagues. I propose to go back to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Heat Supply Act (4334). Please vote, please support the return. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:29:36]] For 221 221, colleagues! Five votes. Turn on the factions, please. We see the general support of all political factions, colleagues. I'll put it back on now. But please invite the deputies to the hall. From the watchtowers, invite the deputies to the hall. Are you guys ready? Are they all in the hall? So I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 4334, my colleague. Please take all your seats and vote now. So 4334, return to voting. Please vote, please support. Heat supply, reforming law. Please return to your consideration, please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:31:22]] For 236 And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Heat Act on Promoting Heat Energy Production from Alternative Sources of Energy (4334), second reading and generally. Please vote, please support in the second reading and in general. Vote. [[11:31:56]] For 238. The law is passed. Colleagues, let's move on to the next law that was passed by the committee to consider in its own block. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the stabilization of the activities of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine. This block is now going to read first. And that's why we need to consider a proposal for a Committee to review the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support discussion 5370 on the reduced procedure. Please support the summary procedure 5370. Vote. [[11:32:56]] For-163 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Speaker, dear colleagues, unfortunately, the next bill will be rather sad than what it is about development. In your view, a bill is proposed to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to stabilize the activities of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society. I'll remind you that the Black Seaftegas State Stock Company was one of the largest companies in the fuel and energy complex, the main fiscal company and the largest taxpayer in the region, which provided for the development of the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf, and produced about 2 billion cubic metres of natural gas. At the same time, in connection with the illegal annexation of the Republic of Crimea, the Society lost access to almost all its assets. By Cabinet ruling of 04.03.2015, No. 83 of the Society was included in the list of strategic subjects of state ownership. Since August 2014, the city of Kyiv has been registered as the city of Kyiv, and since February 2014, the company has been under force majeure conditions that are confirmed by the Chamber of Commerce. Regrettably, more than 500 million dollars have been submitted to the Society today, executions have been made, and funds and property have been arrested. According to an act filed by the tax authority, BlackMornaftegaz has no liquid assets. And that's understandable because the part was annexed, and the part was actually exhausted in this society, and some private companies didn't pay rent on their SD contracts. At present, society has only three valuable assets that are not located in the area of the A.R. Crimea, which is a gas-discovery near the village of Strilkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u77	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u78	Thank you. It's a joint venture with the PRAT Plast. The Titan-2 Crano-mountain, located in Mexico, is currently in an emergency -- a power supply. The ship's Artek, located in Brazil. However, the company's movable property, seagoing vessels, is located outside Ukraine and therefore cannot be effectively sold in the enforcement procedure in Ukraine. Why are we taking care of this business today? And because Ukraine, in fact, if an enterprise is eliminated, will not be able to defend its rights to the crops that are now licensed in this company. They're in the Black Sea. I would like to remind you that the President has given the task of handling this issue and of filing appropriate international lawsuits. Thus, the bill is now proposed to impose moratoriums on the collection of debts from society by January 1, 2019. During the operation, the moratorium is halted by executive conduct, and the earlier arrests on movable property are subject to withdrawal. In fact, if you sum it up, colleagues, today is the last attempt to protect the assets of Ukraine that are now on BlackMornaftogas. I ask you very much to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. Please give the floor to the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Alexander Dombrowski's nuclear policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I would also like to take this very seriously, responsibly, Bill 5370, because this is about the energy perspective and security of our country. I want to remind you that until the illegal annexation of the Black Mornaphtogaz Crimea in the Black Sea Aquarium each year, it actually increased the production of Ukrainian gas by 1 billion cubic metres. And if we understand that we need to increase our Ukrainian output, then the left-hand side is concentrated in the Black Sea Basin, and we need Black Sea Naphtogas to keep our country independent. We need to protect this state-owned stockholder company from bankruptcy. We need to keep the licenses she has. And finally, it's a very important international legal position, because if we're keeping this enterprise, if we're giving it second breath, if we're increasing gas production, we have the opportunity to protect and maintain and return those assets to the international courts that my colleague just talked about. So on behalf of the Fuel and Energy Committee, I'm very much asking the authors to support this bill, which is one of the key bills in terms of state security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u81	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking you to sign up for a bill: two-for-two-against factions. Of course, those who do not get on the list will also be able to participate from the factions in the discussion. Please, Podlisecki. He gives the word Victoria Vojcitsky. Please. Victoria Vojcitsky from Self-Help, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! This bill is really an adequate response to the difficult situation in which the flagman of the Ukrainian oil and gas production of the Black Mornaphtegas was found. And I very much hope that Parliament will have the courage to accept and support this bill. But I also want to point out that it was BlackMornaftegas, as the flagman, as noted earlier, that he extracted more than 2 billion cubic metres of gas that provided Ukraine with his own production. But these nagras, Ukrainian nadras are now insolently stealing the aggressor country of Russia. And that's why we urge you to do everything you can to admit to reality. And the reality is that even now, in an area controlled by Ukraine, Russia is insolently continuing to steal Ukrainian nadar! Having the courage to support Black Mornaphtogaz, we also hope that MPs will not hide their heads in the sand and acknowledge the reality -- the reality of the occupation of Donbas. The reality is that we don't control, which is that the aggressor country controls our territory on Donbas. That is why we call for a bill on occupied territories to be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible and adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u84	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Clearly, it is a special law, since it is linked both to the occupation of the Crimea and to the removal by the Russian Federation of the incursions that belong to the people of Ukraine and which should bring wealth to the people of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we have to adopt this law and defend our property because it is also a struggle for independence. I only have one question. The radical faction understands that it will support this bill. I only have one request. Between the first and the second readings, change the law and change the "January 1, 2019" rule to the term "before the completion of the occupation of Crimea." Because we are already adopting this law for the third time. For the third time, we have this law in the hall, so why do we need to review the law every year with the same meaning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u85	Thank you. I think the author will give an answer to your proposal after talking to all the MPs. Please, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland. Ah, he gives the word to Mr. Rybchin. Please, Alexei Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u86	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I'm one of the co-authors of the bill as my esteemed colleagues from the Committee on Fuel and Energy. But what is the problem? If you look at "Blackmorenephthegas," it's a state stock company. And we were meeting with the head of this stockholder association of the state's Mrs. Nezhnowy, who was just tears in our eyes trying to protect the state-owned enterprise, and she was addressing the deputies because she wasn't heard in the government. Such national interest laws should be a priority for the government. Unfortunately, they are not a priority for the government. The Supreme Council has already adopted a host of mechanisms to protect national assets. There's a question of force majeure, and this company may not fulfil a lot of obligations, because there's a force majeure, but there's government support. This support from the company's government was not provided, so the company was assisted by the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee. And there's a problem with that. Because, as we can see, Russians are now illegally extracting oil, gas from our ancestry, and not only from those captured and annexed to Crimea, but from Odessa, in the Azov Sea near Zaporez. So we see that the state doesn't react to these things. And we need more energy diplomacy, we need to be more active in protecting our national interests, our assets, bringing what we have to the courts, and protecting what we have. This is Ukraine’s iron concrete position, but more effort is needed from the government to protect the national interests of our country. I propose to vote in favour of this bill as soon as possible in order to allow this company to defend itself in court and to recover all assets, and to blow to the world what happened to the Crimea annexation with the occupation of Donbas. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u87	Mr. Yevlakhov is referring from the "Block of Peter Prashenko" of Olga Belkov. Mrs. Olga, if you please your position regarding the proposed amendment to the statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u88	Actually, Madam Chairman, I am very grateful to my colleague Chizmaru for raising this question. The drafters were very concerned that no one in the room would look for such, you know, betrayal. And that's why we chose the smallest term. But given what a constructive proposal has been made, for the second reading, we're really going to propose an editor who's going to propose a term extended during the occupation and, well, as far as Crimea is concerned. Even now, in the current version of the edition, it is the same that applies to special permits for the use of nadrama. So once again, I thank all my colleagues for their support, for understanding this difficult situation, none of us would like to vote for any moratorium. But I think in this case everyone has understood the essence of the bill and we all want to stand up for Ukrainian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u89	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Please and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, we are moving on to a decision-making process. I would like to point out that the committee is proposing that we lay the groundwork. All the corrections, the warnings we will be able to make during the discussion and preparation for the second reading procedure. Colleagues, the committee's proposal as a basis, Sergei. The committee's proposal, I can't put it any other way. Well, we're done here. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the stabilization of the activities of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine (number 5370) as a basis. Colleagues, please support me, please vote for base 5370. Let's vote, colleagues. Based on the base. Yes, the committee's decision is solely on the ground. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:46:10]] For 240 And, colleagues, the offer is a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee. Colleagues. Please, Olga Valentine's Day, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! It turns out that the hall is very constructive today. There is an offer by the honourable Mr. Chizmar everywhere in the bill to replace "January 1, 2019" with the term "before the completion of the occupation of Crimea". If that's how it works, then it's offered with technical legal remedies as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u91	Colleagues, I'll put it in this formulation, in general, if there's room support. So I'm putting to the vote a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the stabilization of the activities of the Black Mornaftegaz National Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine's territory by the law, which the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilkova Olga Valentinovna, has written under the stenogram. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[11:48:19]] For 203 No voices. Now, colleagues, a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Is the hall supported? Please, colleagues, concentrate, and I propose that the draft Law 5370 be considered in a simplified procedure for making proposals and amending the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[11:48:56]] For 236 Offer supported, 236 per. Decision taken. I would like the committee to prepare quickly and qualitatively for the second reading of the bill. Next. We move on to the next draft agenda, this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplification of certain aspects of the oil and gas sector (number 3096). I ask you to support the proposal of the Committee to review the reduced procedure, please vote, please support, consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[11:49:43]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! In fact, the next bill aims to organize gas production in the early stages of drilling, intelligence, and so forth. Today the situation is that in Ukraine about 70 percent of all free land is agricultural land. And unfortunately, legislation makes it impossible to find a normal voluntary mechanism between the landowner and the landowner and the gas companies to start their work. They are required to transfer the land from agriculture to an industrial sector that is not appropriate. Because much of the drilled wells are in fact not the ones that produce sufficient industrial production, and in fact the transfer of agricultural land for today is not appropriate for both the owner and the people of Ukraine and for those who extract nagra. We therefore propose that this bill create mechanisms that will allow land to be used on the basis of a contract without changing the target for the period of the land-based documents. I want to reassure everyone who cares about agricultural lands, no one will force anyone to do anything. Just the status quo, as it is today, when companies are not actually drawing up any licenses, contracts and so on, but they're just giving bribes, it's going to have to be changed in order for us to be able to increase with you, increase the production of gas in Ukraine. It is proposed that the right of a temporary-use waiter be enshrined in legislation. The only agreement for land removal and transfer is introduced, the need for a Soviet ore, a mining well that has nothing to do with gas production. The legal status of oil - gas mining objects is being addressed. They are not construction objects. The bill is written by the MPs of Peter Poshenko, the People's Front, the Fatherland. This one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u93	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u94	This bill is designed in a very large amount of cooperation with all the gas companies. The biggest problem today is that of government companies that cannot bribe and have no such practices. I call on every one of you to care that there was more gas of your own production in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u95	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the committee, Alexander Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I would like to go back to these in the discussion of previous laws and point out that when we support the unquestionably question of the energy independence of our country, we need to understand and realize that 20 billion meters of Cuba's own production of Ukrainian gas is very, very little. If we want to be energy independent, and I think it's a rule and position, an axiom for any national MP who's in this room today, you and I need to increase the production of Ukrainian gas by at least 20 years in accordance with the Ukrainian government program to 27 billion cubic meters. So we need to add plus seven billion with you to buy less abroad to pay less money to invest more in the Ukrainian economy, to create more jobs and to use Ukrainian gas for its own production, which is less cost-effective than the gas we're buying abroad. So I would very much like to support this bill because it allows for a substantial simplification of issues related to the development of this field. I want to support the thesis that Mrs. Olga said you don't have to worry about using agricultural land, there will be no problems. And all the suggestions we've already received on the committee, I promise we'll look very professionally and very professionally between the first and the second readings. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to emphasize: six minutes to twelve, so please be as brief as possible to participate in the discussion. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Eutushka. Ribchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Vadim Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u99	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we have carefully studied this issue, this bill. And just now, the chairman of the committee said that there are quite a lot of proposals that came along and so forth. But believe me, it would be a professional thing for us to accept on the first reading the same line that everyone agrees with. So our proposal is still to send you to work on what is nuances and points, for example, if you get permission to do exploration work, whether you can come to any land or Lochvika, or in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, to do these exploration work, and have the majority right to use this land, even though the owner will have a completely different land area. The same is true of the contracts of the servitude and the contracts, namely, the direct redemption of the land. They can use this land and do their business even without the state registration of such land. Believe me, this could lead to the mass raiding of these lands. I've come, I've broken through, or I've done something, and you don't have any responsibility. So let's all agree on these proposals directly in the text of the bill and re-read it. To our great conviction, we need to develop an oil - gas industry, and even more so, we need to get money from these jobs or land use. Costs after registration go directly to the local budgets, and plus you and I took a rent on the distribution. Part of the lease will officially remain in local budgets after the official development of the land area. Let's go professionally, we're not going to take the bill. And we propose to re-read first, taking into account all these proposals and taking into account the specifics of land use and land registration, so that we don't have raids and other illegals.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u100	By "self-help" Wojcietsky. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u101	Self-Help will certainly support this bill, because it represents a set of solutions to remove the artificial obstacles, the rudimentary things that have been left in us since Soviet times. As noted by my committee colleagues, the country has set itself a task of becoming completely independent of Russian gas and gas from Europe. To do this, we need to invest, and we are not talking about a billion or two billion dollars, but about the tens of billions of dollars that we need to invest in order to increase our own production. Thus, the bill just represents a long-awaited deregulation of the highly regulated sector. The questions of the land are suggested to be resolved at the stage of preparing the bill for second reading. And we urge the entire room to support this revolutionary long-awaited bill, which experts estimate will increase Ukraine's production by 1 billion cubic metres of gas in just one year. Ladies and gentlemen, we support our own production.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u102	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u103	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, I agree that the oil and gas sector of Ukraine needs to be developed. This is really the strategic direction of our nation. In fact, we today have many problems with the formation of the earth. But these problems cannot be solved by violating the principles of land law. In no case can it be agreed that building wells for oil and gas production can be done on agricultural land without a change of destination or removal from owners. In my opinion, land for mining must be purchased from their owners and paid to local agricultural production budgets. I represent Poltavian, and I know what's going on where this is going. Local budgets get absolutely nothing. The roads break down, the water breaks in the wells, and the situation is completely abnormal. And that's why you have to write these things clearly. And we can't give people away on their own in this situation. In general, I don't understand why a bill that rewrites 13 articles of the Earth Code is being considered, not by a professional committee on agrarian politics and land relations, but by the Committee on Fuel and Energy. Therefore, the proposal is clear: this bill should be sent for further processing, and it should be considered by the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, which is where all the experts are. We will draw a professional conclusion, and we will continue to consider it in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u104	And, colleagues, a closing statement from Peter Dusty's Block. And then we go to the vote. So I ask all the MPs to come to the hall, and in two minutes, there will be a decision on this bill. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" by Mikola Volodymyrovich Lušnjak. Dombrovsky's giving the word. Please. Alexander Georgievicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u105	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, here we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, first of all, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank you for all the comments that have been made today. But at the same time, I would like to point out that the art of compromise is the art of finding that golden middle that allows us all to move forward. I would see this golden middle between the strategic state interests of the two committees in the following. If we supported, I would ask in the first reading, this bill, we would have a joint meeting between the first and second readings of two committees, agro-industrial policy committees and our energy committee. We would make all the changes that concern us today in order to find the very tool that would allow us, in protecting our country's agrarian security, to solve dynamic issues and energy security and energy independence. So I'm going to ask you to support this as a basis. And we will then, I promise, be sure to hold a meeting of two committees, where we will go in detail in every problematic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u107	My colleagues, the Radical Party faction has not yet come forward. Please, Oleg Lazko. And, colleagues. And Front, right? Just give me a minute, okay? Because we're just gonna crash into the quorum for 12 hours. One minute, Oleg Valeriyovich Lasko. And the minute is Maxim Burbak. And then the vote. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u108	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We want to be really independent – we don't have to be poor. The only way to overcome poverty that has been tested around the world is by employing Ukrainians, which is by radically increasing incomes, wages and pensions. When you beg, when you don't have a job, when you're sick and stupid, you don't need either yourself or people. That's why the Radical Party faction supports our country's energy dependency. We should not buy in Russia or abroad. We must produce in Ukraine, create jobs for Ukrainians, wages, pensions, incomes to raise Ukrainians, preserve Ukrainian land, and the Ukrainian forest. Ukrainians have a job and a life worth living!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u109	From the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u110	Colleagues, the People's Front will support this law. This law makes it possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u111	Katzer-Buchovsky, please, from the People's Front, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u112	The law makes it possible to simplify the procedures for the removal of land for gas - drilling objects and also for pipeline transport. For your understanding. In general, there is competition for investment in gas production. Each country is competing to provide the best conditions for investors. Unfortunately, we don't have the best. But the problem with energy dependency and resource supply is you see it every day. All these blockades, all these gas purchases from different countries at high gas prices, all because we lack our own resources. We can't extract more gas without investing or creating normal conditions. Today, the investor is unable to come and start drilling natural gas in Ukraine from scratch because the procedures are so regulated that it takes up one process of land removal takes years. So I ask our faction to vote in favour of this bill. It will allow the direction to be adjusted, and it will cancel several archaic standards such as withdrawal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u113	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u114	It also allows for deregulation and repeals the archaic norm as it does, which duplicates special permits. It's like mining drains. It allows for the formation of a servitude and a temporary contract, which is in no way contrary to the Ukrainian Earth Code. So I ask you very much, those who support energy dependency and increase natural gas production in Ukraine, to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u115	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please take up your jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying certain aspects of the oil and gas sector No. 3096 as a basis. Just on the ground, fellows! We will be able to make all the adjustments to the second reading. Let's support Ukraine's energy dependency, let's support 3096 in the first reading on the basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! As promised, there will be a meeting of two committees and then there will be work to be done. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:06:34]] For 203 203 – yes, colleagues. Let me put it back once. If I don't, I'll make the next offer for processing. Colleagues who support the proposal to return to 3096 as a basis, please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[12:07:09]] For 213 Colleagues, the next one, offered the re-reading. You support it, don't you? Go back to the committee. On the committee to work, colleagues. So I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to work on. We're supporting this proposal, aren't we? Please vote 3096 on the committee for further work. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote. Each voice has a weight. It's a committee to work on. Please vote, please support. [[12:08:03]] For 223 Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm asking you to take all the seats, colleagues. It's a compromise offer. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So I'm going to make an offer to return to the committee for further work. Colleagues, there'll be no people in the hall for a minute or two. I'm asking you to vote on the proposal for a committee to work on. Two committees, so the two committees can meet. Is that how it works, Mrs. Ola? So that the two committees can get together and work together. Is that right? That's how it works. The two committees came back and worked on it. It's working. Please vote, please support for the committee's work. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:09:03]] For 232 Decision taken. So I want the committees to work on this question so that you can accept it in the hall. And I now give the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u116	I ask you not to go out there, my dear fellows, and stay in the hall for a second. Today, visitors are very important in Ukraine’s session hall. I'd like to take a look at the rostrum. Today, March 21, there is the World Day of Down’s Syndrome. And we have important guests today, these are "sun children" and their parents from all parts of Ukraine. [[Applause]] My friends, my dears, we welcome you to Parliament today. We're very pleased to see you, we know that we still have a great deal to do as politicians, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that "sun children" and "sun people" can be realized in Ukrainian society. There are 15,000 people in Ukrainian society with Down syndrome. Each year more than 400 children are born with such syndrome. Colleagues, we need to work together to ensure that these children have the right to normal education, to self-realization, to work. And we'll do anything for it. And now all those who have come in colored socks today are invited to a briefing with our children with our "sun" and flash mob. And I'm asking the Supreme Council earlier today to transpose Government Bill 4607 to support children with Down's syndrome, so that we can vote right after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u117	Colleagues, there is now a 30-minute recess under the Rules. At 12:40 a.m., everyone gathers, there will be an extremely important law for the continuation of our block. And I'm asking you, Nemirowski and Irina Lucenko, to come to me for consultations right now. Nemirowski and Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u118	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the continuing room. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I want to remind you that we now have two more bills from the fuel-energy complex. The two bills currently in place are the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (to ensure the use of gas distribution systems) and the draft Law on the Energy Efficiency Fund, which was highlighted yesterday by the Conciliation Council. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you first to consider a reduced procedure. If there are votes, we'll follow the reduced procedure, if we don't, we'll follow the full procedure. So I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall so that we can get the order of the day that we have to go through effectively and quickly. Please have the National Deputies come into the hall. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put to the vote a proposal for a review of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine (to ensure the use of gas distribution systems) (5058) under a reduced procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to consider draft Laws 5558 and 5558-1 under a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[12:49:08]] For-94 The decision is not taken. There is a strong belief in the room that a full procedure should be considered. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Nephrodov Maksim Evgenovich. Maxim Evgenovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u119	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, since April 2015 with the adoption of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, there has been a ban on the use of gas distribution networks on the right of knowledge, except for economic operators. As a result, there is a situation where gas distribution networks are used free of charge on the basis of farm knowledge contracts that were made between MinEnergo Coal in 2013 and related frauds, most of which are private. Ukraine's Natural Gas Market Act, which provides for an appropriate ban, does not contain provisions to determine how and how these gas distribution networks can be used by operators, those who are private entities that are not part of the economy's economy. Accordingly, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes to address the issue of the use of gas distribution systems by determining the legal principles for transferring them to lease conditions. The adoption of this law -- it's very simple -- it only gives us the right to rent them, and it also establishes that they should be leased on the basis of a typical contract that will approve the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, allowing: first, the removal of a legislative ban on the transfer of gas distribution systems to rent; and second, the rent to be defined as a way of using gas distribution systems. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u120	Thank you. I'm sorry, full-time. You'll have three more minutes to ask. Please sign up for the question, three minutes, to the reporter. Wojcietsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the rapporteur. Why did the Cabinet of Ministers determine only one form of transfer, namely rent? Why not consider other forms of transmission, namely concession. Because it's the concession that will allow it through tariff -- and we talked about it in the working group with the representatives of the energy regulator -- that will allow you to get the investments that are needed to upgrade the gas distribution networks that are currently in mourning state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u122	Thank you. Thank you, that's a very good question. In fact, the question of why it is settled in the simplest way is primarily related to a lack of time, because we need a solution right now. But the question of concession -- it's not out of the question. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the concept of a new concession bill. His first draft, his first project, he's already prepared by consultants with the EBRD and a large group of experts. He must also consider more complex issues for the use of concessions not only in other areas of farming but also in the oil and gas sector. Including gas distribution networks, what is involved in the gas transport system may be Ukraine’s gas pipeline operators, and so on. That's why we're here. We expect that this year, if everything goes as planned, an appropriate bill will be submitted to the Supreme Council. Just waiting and preparing this more complex solution without settling the issue and creating a legal vacuum, from our point of view, is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u123	Thank you. Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u124	Victoria Voitzick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u125	Further on, the subject of concession and rent. I understand your answer that we are really in a situation where we need to find a solution quickly. But I also want to ask the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. The transmission of gas distribution networks, including through such a form as rent, should provide for a comprehensive not only inventory of state property that is now being made. The use of fakes is free of charge and passports are free of charge. The explanation, please, when, in what time frame this work will be carried out in order to have all the grounds for obtaining back the State’s assets and then concluding those contracts in the form that will be most objectively acceptable to the State. And we're doing it again, and we're going back to renting or concession, because rent doesn't solve today's problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u126	Thank you for the professional question. In fact, the problem is even a little deeper than what you describe from your passport because there is a situation where many parts of these gas distribution networks cannot be used as separate assets, that is, a few kilometers of pipe, among some individual objects. These are inseparable improvements to objects in another form of ownership and so forth. And accordingly, what to do with these assets is that there's some kind of elevated question that's going to be clear once we figure out how many of these assets there are. And the second problem is that it also has to do with the cost of carrying out this inventory, of passporting, and of creating a detailed map of gas distribution networks. We expect this work to be done within a year. I'd love to get it done faster, but for now, it's likely to be a transfer as a whole complex in the same way as it was in 2013, when contracts were concluded and the host.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u127	Thank you. Question-answer time is up. Thank you, Maxim Evgenovich. And I'm here to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Xenjuk Alexandre Stepanović. Alexander Stepanovich! I invite you to your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u128	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft laws (registration number 5558 and 5558-1) were designed to address problems in the use of gas distribution systems by transferring them to payment. The adoption of the bill will allow for the efficient use of the gas distribution system and will allow additional revenues to the state budget of Ukraine in the form of rent, which is extremely relevant and important at present. In view of the fact that we, the authors of the alternative bill, have been called off, an appropriate application has been made to the secretariat of the Apparatus, an alternative draft of the Ukrainian Law 5558-1 please support the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Laws on the Seizure of Gas Disposal Systems, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u129	Thank you. Excuse me, three more minutes of question-answer. Please record the question. Please. Please, Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u130	Good afternoon! These bills are essential for all of Ukraine and primarily for the security-related people. Because the use of gas distribution systems throughout the gas system is now very stressful in terms of safety. She needs to be changed, she needs to be served. The rotten pipes need to be changed, and it is up to the owner to be responsible. Because the critical situation that's happened not only in my district, but in many others, where there's a gas leak on the road from under the buildings, because the system's long-distorted, it's been put 20 years ago and without proper isolation, tells us that in this area we need to put order. And the entire gas system needs immediate reconstruction and immediate replacement. And so we need to set legal standards that allow new owners to properly ensure the safety of the system. Thank you. We vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u131	Thank you. We're going to view this as a performance, not a question. And the next is Katzer-Buchkowska Natalia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u132	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I also support the adoption of this bill and the resolution of the issues of gas distribution networks, because it is very important to increase competition in the natural gas market, but I still have questions. Gas distribution networks, this is a large property complex owned by a state that is used for free of charge. Does the law provide for who and on what basis, who will receive the gas distribution networks? Are the safety and efficiency of the operation, the inventory of gas distribution networks foreseen and considered? And what will also be the purpose and use of the funds derived from the rental of gas distribution networks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u133	Thank you. It's also, I mean, it was a performance, right? I'm asking Alexander Stepanovich. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u134	I think all the suggestions that will be made will be considered by the committee in preparing for the second reading. And all the work that was done in drafting the alternative bill, I hope they'll be included in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u135	Thank you. And to my co-report, I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fuel and energy complex of Lopushan Andry Jaroslavovich. Please, Andrew Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u136	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished people of Ukraine! The bill plays an important role in the gas supply and gas security for the population. This bill is like a mechanism for reforming the fuel and energy complex and for reforming local self-government. The state has its own property. Local authorities, rural councils, city councils, district councils also have their own pipelines and do not receive funds for them. In every country of the world, this has been said by the Secretary of the Energy Community, gas distribution systems are paid for. The committee therefore considered the bill and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 5558 on the first reading as a basis. With regard to Project 5558-1, which is submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the difference in it and the fact that companies that are not 100 percent of the state's property, i.e. mixed capital, can be engaged in a concession for use by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. We can look at it with the example of "Scrooge." I am personally against it. The committee's requesting support for 5558-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u137	Thank you. Please. Mr. Andrey! Mr. Andrew, three more minutes. Please. Colleagues, please, three minutes -- a question mark. Please hold the recording. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u139	Please tell me, does the lease agreement for gas distribution systems, or does it provide for the rent? And if so, will this not lead to an increase in the tariff on natural gas distribution?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u140	As a form of payment, it will already be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and not necessary. Whether it's a form of a contract, whether it's a lease or a form, but it's on a pay basis. We've calculated the cost of increasing transportation together with the working group. And that's about 3-5 percent of the fare for gas transport from supplier to consumer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u142	Dear colleague, I have a question for you that I have already put directly to the government representative. Both the government and the parliamentary bill provide for rent as a form of cooperation that relates to the transfer to the payment base of those gas distribution networks that belong to the State. There's no question that government property has to be paid. I have a question for you. How, if we do rent, will we make up for investment investments in the modernization of gas distribution networks of state ownership? How, if the regulator makes a clear statement to us, the rent will make it impossible to do that. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u143	The bill gives the right to rent public property and the Pipeline Transport Act to rent the gas pipelines that are in place. Gas distribution systems that are state owned. And today's bill removes this ban and gives the Cabinet of Ministers the right to determine the form of payment: whether it's a lease agreement, whether it's a concession, or another contract -- you don't have to replace the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers, he's going to define this form himself. But basically, the Cabinet of Ministers understands that the first is a reliable and unbreakable supply to natural gas consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u144	Thank you. And the last question is Illenko Andrew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u146	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question like this. You know, in 2015, a law came into force on the natural gas market, which prohibits the use of gas distribution systems owned by a state on the right of knowledge. And in principle, I understand that this is the law that you want to repeal these rules and today instead of the state strengthening its influence and control of the gas transport system, so you want to transfer it to private hands. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u147	No, you don't understand. All you said was the other way around. Yeah? The law that we passed in the 15th year on the natural gas market says that gas distribution systems should be used solely on a paid basis, and today's legislation prohibits it. Just a change to this legislation, which gives the State the right to rent gas distribution networks, but only the operator will be a state or an operator, a 100 percent state ownership. And the money that's going to come and go for this, rent or pay, is going to fall into the government budget, exclusively, a hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u148	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you for the report, Andry Jaroslavovich. Now come out of the factions. Please record who wants to speak from factions and groups. But please be as brief as possible, colleagues. Please. Please, from Self-Help, Sisoyenko. Babak, right? Please, Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Now let's actually read what's written in the bill. The draft law indicates that the renter of gas distribution systems will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers to manage the public sector of the economy, which will rent gas distribution systems. It is as if the principle of paying for the use of networks really works. At the same time, the only restriction in this draft law is that Kabin will establish a default contract for the transfer of such systems to rent. At the same time, let's now see what's going to be real, how the economy works. Rent is a paid use of property. This means that there will be an entity designated by Kabmin who will pay for the rent of gas distribution networks. We heard from the reporter today that this is about 3-4 percent of the value of property. Imagine how this is going to increase the price of gas for the final consumer, because the price of gas distribution is going to be increased by the rent. So the proposed scheme is super-efficient in terms of public interest, which is interested in investing in the network today rather than just paying off some state-owned enterprise. And there's no interest for the consumer who, in fact, instead of an up-to-date network to invest in, gets an increase in gas pay. Thus, there is no way to support a bill in such a way that only sets up a network rental mechanism. Our suggestion that this should be a competition for the use of networks under a concession contract, which should clearly define the State’s priorities for investing in the object of the concession, is that the State should be able to control the implementation of such a contract. Otherwise, renting costs will go to a government firm and will not be known where they will be used. There is no way to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u150	Please, from "The Will of the People" Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u151	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." I fully support the speaker in front of me. Indeed, the draft law leads to total corruption, and the bill needs to be returned to the developer. And as an example, I want to say that, for example, the gas transport system is an object of increased danger. I didn't see, either in the first or second case, in either of the bills, any systems that would be responsible for security. So the funds that were allocated would go to reconstruction, to improve people's working conditions, to rebuild the gas transport system itself, to exploit it. It's nothing. So back to the developer and back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u152	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich. He's giving Halasyuk the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u153	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! What do we need to do today in an extreme way to make things better? It takes all bureaucratic artificial corruption barriers to the investor’s path to come and invest in our country, to build production, to build new objects, to create new jobs, to pay taxes to Ukraine. This is a task for all public authorities, whether it is a branch of the Supreme Council, the Government, the President, or an independent commission. What is happening today? A bright example: The National Committee on Energy and Utilities has increased the cost of electricity for manufacturers, for builders, and for alternative energy. Without the support of an expert environment, without the support of a business firm, they made a decision that was made by dragons in connection with connection – a threefold blow: by industry, by alternative energy, by Ukrainian construction. In fact, artificial barriers to investment in Ukraine were built. This is anti-government activity. I, as deputy leader of the Radical Party of Economic Policy, as chairman of the Committee of Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, addressed the Prime Minister today, the head of the NCRE Wolf, even at the NABU to investigate this manipulation because they counted the cost of joining on the basis of inappropriate output, which is denied by the company of the Great Four. So they've taken a questionable methodology, they've taken completely inadequate evaluation figures, and they've put accounts out to manufacturers, investors, and builders. To this day, thanks to our efforts, this decree has not been printed, that is, it has not entered into force. What do we propose? Not just changing this decision, translating something from one place to another, but fundamentally changing the approach, doing as we did in Israel: in Israel connecting to infrastructure, to energy networks for investors is conditionally free: come, connect, build a factory – there is no pay for joining. Then you'll pay for the investment component when you buy electricity. So it's increasing the amount of electricity generation, and it's becoming cheaper not just for industry, but for the population. So this approach, which is in Israel, the Radical Party faction proposes that Ukraine remove artificial barriers for investors to enter, lure them, help them to come to Ukraine from all over the world to have jobs here, here's taxes. Then they'll pay for the electricity at the rate. This should be done, not to encourage private monopolies to rob Ukrainian industrialists of alternative energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u154	From Peter Poshenko's Block, Dove Vladislav passes it on to Victor Pinzenic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u155	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, although this has happened by chance, that we are discussing the law in full procedure, but this is precisely the case where the matter is very important and should have been discussed in full procedure. First of all, I would like to make a positive assessment of the government's intentions to resolve and respond to a long-running problem. It's a beard problem. What are we talking about? The banks, or offices that provide gas in the areas of Ukraine, are largely privatized, are not state-owned. But when privatization took place, the nets remained suspended. No one bought the networks, no one paid for them, no one paid for them until now, but they're in the use of private companies. What does the government want to do? The first part of the idea is absolutely correct and obvious: to settle property status. The state must secure ownership and, as each owner, take payment for the use of its property. But the problem is that during the years of Ukraine’s independence, additional construction was done, but it was done on the basis of various sources. This was done by the government budget over the constant annual cost of construction of gas pipelines, which was done by the population, who also carried out gas pipelines at their expense. And I'm assuming that's what gas companies do. So there's a first problem that needs to be solved: building ownership depending on funding sources. But the key problem that doesn't allow me to vote for this law -- and I want the government's position here -- is the next. I'm not worried about trying to rent a gas distribution system. The problem is in the other plane. The main problem of this system. Whether this market should be in the hands of a monopoly or not. In other words, whether the issue of gas supply and gas sales should be in one hand or not, My answer is no. These should be different processes: selling gas has one company, transiting gas to the consumer has another company. What does the government project envision? The government's project provides for the possibility of renting. Who? I'm a liar, too. The law does not rule out such a possibility. We don't have the right to sell gas in one place, the network in another place. This market has to be competitive, and every territory has competing companies to sell gas. No answer to that question. If the government is ready in the second reading to resolve this problem, I call for a vote in favour. If this problem is not resolved, there is no point in us creating and forging private companies that will impose services on consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. He's taking it off. And Sobolev Sergey, the faction of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, what's going on right now is some kind of theater of absurdity. I wish the people's deputies had passed such a bill. But we found out in this session room that no one has the right to rent or to hold gas distribution networks in concessions. Is that so or not? We fixed it in the Gas Market Act? We're fastened. Now some games are starting. Officials -- the previous government, the current government -- instead of implementing a decision by Parliament, enshrined in the law, that gas distribution networks belong to the state and that a state-owned enterprise should be created on the basis of district and misgases. It's just like Crushgas, just like NAC Naftogaz, just like Crushing. So instead of creating a state-owned enterprise, the government came to us with their hands and said, "They're stealing. They're stealing under our noses." What are they stealing from you? Why didn't you inventory all this property? Don't you know that Firthash was handed over exclusively to the room of the impostors in his time? No gas pipes were transmitted. No compressor stations were transmitted. Show me the law on which it was done. Why didn't you return all of this to state property? And now you come to us and say, "We're nothing. We want you to let me rent it." And the difference between the government and the MP in one is whether it's competitive or not. If you can't put the system in a gas distribution network in a way that makes profits, it's not the tariffs that were before, it's today's tariffs that are burdened on everyone: businesses, private owners. What right did you have to go into the hall with a bill like that? The only thing to do is no rereading of the first readings. These two bills must be rejected. The government will listen to the nearest meeting in the West, after the establishment of a state-owned gas distribution company. And let the state in this high-income business earn, invest, as it is now able to invest in all other projects. That should be the conclusion of Parliament. I don't think anyone here is going to play either old or new suitors on the lease of this unique property. Thank you. Our faction won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u158	Thank you. The factions are finished. And now we have 15 minutes of nationals speaking. I'm asking you too in a very concise way. And please. Oh, I'm sorry, I haven't been to the Front yet. Katzer-Buchovska. Please turn on the People's Front. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the bill is very important. Because first of all, I want to say that at the moment, the gas distribution networks are being used for free. And this situation was provided for in the Natural Gas Markets Act, where we predicted that gas distribution networks should, which are owned by the State at the moment, be used exclusively on a pay-as-you-go basis. This bill will not only allow the issue to be resolved. Although I agree with the other speakers, a number of amendments should be made to the second reading, which I will also talk about. But this is also a requirement for the third energy package, and for the implementation of our gas legislation to European requirements. Because right now it's going to give it to the citizens. First of all, it is possible to compete in the natural gas market at consumer level. This is: implementation, proper implementation of competitive gas distribution networks will allow the consumer to eventually choose the natural gas supplier. What will result from the possibility of selecting a more quality supplier and supplier that supplies gas at a cheaper price. However, until the second reading, I think it is necessary to discuss carefully in this bill how gas distribution networks will be inventoryd. Because at the moment, there is a very complicated legal form of ownership of these gas distribution networks. Also, who will rent or otherwise, on the right to use gas distribution networks? How will the cost of using gas distribution networks be used? There is also a need to discuss the safety of gas distribution networks, since this is really a large system that needs to be used safely. So I'm in favour of discussing these questions for a second reading. But we can’t delay the solution later, since Ukraine loses every day, every month, a lot of money each year. And that's billions of dollars. So I ask the room to accept this bill in the first reading and to join with those suggestions and regulations that were expressed by colleagues for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u160	Thank you. So I'd like you to hold a recording for the national MPs. Please record who wants to speak. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, once again I would like to return to what we have to decide by this law. You can vote in the first reading on the condition that the government supports the position that I'm speaking here. But judging from the discussion, the chances that this law will be passed now in the first reading are very few. Obviously, it needs to be returned for further processing. This law should address two fundamental issues. The first question is to determine the state nature of ownership of the gas pipeline network. I don't think that's going to make it a more normative act than the law. The state must secure ownership. The second question is a fundamental question: whether this market will be monopolized and Ukrainian citizens will be slaves to the Soviet gas supply system, or whether this market will be competitive. And the key question is the network. I don't want to have a discussion about what the "fatherland" faction said, whether it's government property or rent, I'm talking about something else. We may not be talking about rent right now, but we must now say that this part of the service should be separate from the sale of gas. Once again, gas sales and gas supply must be in different hands. The monopoly exists online, and the gas vendors in the area may be 5, 10, 20, let them compete, let them offer Ukrainian citizens the cheapest services. These two basic positions should be the norm of the law. If they are, we're ready to support it. But since they are not in the existing law, I ask that the government base its work on these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Alexei Rybchin. Alexy Rybchin, you're on. She's speaking to Mrs. Kugel. Mrs. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, two years ago, we decided by this hall that all gas distribution systems belong to the state of Ukraine. Unfortunately, in two of these years, we haven't implemented the law, we haven't implemented it, we haven't implemented it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it, we haven't done it. Mr. Mustafa Najim and I went to the government committee of Mr. Kistion several times, stressing the need to open a criminal case to the energy minister, to the vice-premier, who conduct the matter and don't do the law, not transfer the gas distribution system. But it's just a detective story. When Mr. Demchisin, Minister of Energy, came to power, he refused to accept any acts that he had saved for the transfer of gas distribution systems to the lease. And this person with these documents, so that they don't die, understanding the state responsibility, he's gone into the company called Crucifix. I went to Mr. Nasalik. Why don't you accept these documents and turn it into a state-owned enterprise? And then the answer goes, "So that's going to be the increase in the tariff." Your Honor, this is a lie. In today's tariff we have depreciation on the use of these gas networks. This amount is enough to leave for a state-owned enterprise as an amount of rent for the first few years before the economy stabilizes and continues to move in a state-run way. And that's why we're proposing to return the two bills and complete them, because my bill, which I proposed a year and a half ago on Mr. Dombrowski's committee, they rejected it, it's been two years, you've gone back to the same thing, but it's already inconceivable and you have to return them. Therefore, it is urgent that Mr. Papuy should complete these bills and submit them to the Supreme Council for its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Kugel. Please, River of the People's Front. National MP of the River. Dear colleagues from the People's Front, MP of the River.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u165	We support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u166	Very wise. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Wojcietzka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, gas distribution networks is one of the biggest lost state assets. This is Achilles' fifth and the shame of Ukrainian energy, which has been in the free use of private companies for more than 20 years, lies, most of which are controlled by the businessman-oligarch Firthash. Every year, the state lacks hundreds of millions, if not billions, of its assets. And he's getting this money actually from the pro-Russian oligarch. This prolonged wearout is not. The positive effect is that no one is investing in them, no modernization is being done, so we're now with you in a state of "five minutes before the accident." It's a slow-acting bomb. No one doubts that state property should be returned to the state. But let's stop putting the horse forward. Put the cart in front of the horse. First, the State must ensure that all its assets are inventoryed. Full passporting of gas distribution networks must be carried out. Then they have to be transferred from the balance sheet (and now they're on the balance sheet) to government property. And then we can talk about what would be the appropriate form of regulation of the relationship between the operator and the state directly. As a state, we have to invest billions of investments in order to make sure that our gas distribution network is modernised so that we don't see permanent accidents, so that we don't see the constant loss of billions of gas cubes every year. So I'm calling as my colleagues on the committee, and I've done this on a number of occasions, on the basis of a committee, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, to make a working group, and to work out a comprehensive bill that would answer the question, from the outset, from inventory, to passporting to the definition of that optimal form of relationship between the state and the investor that would be most acceptable. And last but not least, rent. I have a question for the Cabinet of Ministers. Excuse me, who are you going to make leases with? Isn't it just a formality of going from free use, as it is now, in the case of liars and Firthash, to a paid, once again fixed monopoly by the same Firthache?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Mr. Beresuk. Out of the way, please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u169	Please give it to Mrs. Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u170	Please, Mrs. Aloni Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, this bill, in the form it is presented, cannot be fundamentally changed until the second reading. We can't write there today about what's going to happen inventory of the gas distribution systems that are being transferred. There is no description of how the pay will be determined and so on. And this bill is limited to just one option: rent and all. Unfortunately, it is not possible to work on it. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to consider the possibility of the Holding Foundation carrying out an inventory of objects, at least because it can do so today. And then make a decision, in a competitive way, of course, the state will pass it on in one way or another. the use of the gas distribution system. But the main thing is that it's not just a payoff, it's a payoff that improves quality and makes investments in the gas distribution system. Because actually, the use that exists today is made without investing in public networks. That's why we need to knock out a mechanism of use that will allow us not to push the funds from Firthash, conditionally, into the budget or from Firthash to the firm, but rather to have a company selected for the competition that will use these networks, and to have the state put investment requirements and performance controls on such an operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Olena. Please, dove from Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u173	Vladislav Dove, 197th Cherkaschina constituency. Please give my word to my colleague Belkova Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u174	Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u175	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the fate of this bill will not be very positive. But at the same time, I'd like to take this opportunity to remind us all. We all have reprimands for this bill, while the second or third cancer of the oats uses the property that is now owned by the state for free. Let's say that current legislation, unfortunately, does not allow the government to unilaterally cancel the operation of those so-called operational knowledge treaties. These agreements are nonprofitable and do not provide for payment in the favor of the State. In fact, we all care about how, where these funds are going to go, who is going to make deals or leases or concessions in some way. Because only these two forms are actually normal forms of transmission. These. This property is leased. There is a question about how tariffs will be translated. I'd like to say you don't have to press the situation. And really, if companies built these distribution networks themselves, they would probably also take that into account in their investment programs. But it wasn't, they got this property for free. It belongs to the State. It has to be returned to the state and in transparent, understandable contests or any principles that the bill chooses, we have to pass it on for payment. The questions raised by my colleague, Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, are already partly addressed in the Natural Gas Market Act. This bill, I think, could be analysed between the first and the second readings and adopted. But today's mood is not like that. I'll remind you, three or four times he's also been "not like this," and accordingly, and still, he's going to use the total free property that belongs to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u176	Please, the next Mikhail Golovko. Please give me your word, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u177	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 163 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues, it's a really, really important law, because you know, the energy security of the state, it's a priority for independent politics. Regrettably, the gas transport system, the frauds were private, and for almost 20 years they were used, and no one paid a penny to the state budget. But even so, as a statesman and as a Ukrainian nationalist who demands that things like energy should be controlled by the state, we should never let them privatize the Ukrainian gas transport system. Understandably, someone has been watching her, and today they tell of the need for an effective manager, a new host who will be worthy to manage the pipe in a good way. And I have a question: why are we spending billions on the maintenance of managers who have three million dollars of monthly salary, like Kobolev, son of Natalia Vitrenco, that progressive socialist, right? – Prokhorenko and others, and the whole mafia, who doesn't even want to let the state audit of those businesses that Ukraine spends billions, loses every day. Instead of talking about how to get state control back on those businesses, you're thinking about how to transfer them to private property. Who's going to pay for this? You say you need a concession, you have revenue to go to the State Budget for the maintenance of the pipe, three there or four percent. Whose money is this? And this is going to go on the shoulders of ordinary Ukrainians, our citizens, who are going to pay an increase in rent and the cost of gas services, and it's going to go into the pocket of another oligarch. Of course, there's only one thing you think: how do you steal people's strategic enterprises, you want to steal land, you want to steal gas transportation, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal gas, you want to steal electricity, you want to steal electricity, you want to steal electricity, you have to steal electricity, and there's a couple of strategic factories and a railway. But that's unacceptable. That is why we demand that the gas transport system belong exclusively to the State. If those woe managers who are in positions today are spending billions of dollars on the state budget, and Kobolev alone has caused more than 3 billion dollars to the state to buy gas, they have to be responsible. Thus, such leaders must be removed. And if the government says they can't manage, an effective manager, then we have to send such a government away from the people, and so that they don't abuse people, and in order to finally get the right leaders back, we have to find effective managers who will work for the state, who will work to increase the budget and increase the energy independence of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u178	Thank you. So, colleagues, the time has come for speeches by national deputies. Now, the final word from the committee, and we move on to the vote. That's why I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, and the heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall. And, please, a closing statement. First Deputy Chairman of the Dombrovsky Committee, Alexander Georgievich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for the emotional and hot discussion, because the topic deserves to be very professionally and deeply debated according to the problem of using gas distribution networks. But literally a few, I think, are the key theses. First. Today, from the point of view of gas management in Ukraine, we have the worst possible situation. And so any solution: let's talk, let's move, let's create something else there, is just a delay. I'm in charge of making the right decisions, I'm in favour of creating a working group. But we must clearly realize that we must take real steps and move forward from the point of view of government management. Position number two. I believe that the State Property Fund failed to carry out the mission and did not make a thorough systematic inventory of this property. Because it's not just a matter of state ownership, it's a matter of local self-government. I'll give you an example. As a person who worked for over five years as the head of the provincial administration of the Winnitsky region, I want to say, every year in the Vinnitsky region, from 5 to 10 years, we built 1,200 to 1,500 kilometers of gas pipelines that people spent their money on. And today, the fact that these pipelines are used by private companies for free is the principle of social injustice. The third thesis. We need to make a very profound legal identification of this situation, because these so-called commercial knowledge contracts, which are signed on an uninterrupted basis, the state needs to understand the risks that it involves the entire distribution network. So, honourable colleagues, in closing, I'm willing to take any decision of Parliament, but I insist that we move forward on this difficult issue in order to allow people to get cheap gas, cheap quality services. I support my colleague Victor Pinzenik, he has no moral right to be any monopoly local, we have distribution networks to manage separately, and natural gas suppliers for the competitive market should be 10, 15, 20 – the more, the better. So to give back this kind of administrative intellectual role to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u180	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall. The name Victor Pinzenic was mentioned. The replica is one minute. And please come into the hall and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I understand the emotions expressed in connection with the use of gas transport networks, and the concern expressed by colleagues about what they steal or can steal. So I want you all to think about it. Without making any decisions, there is nothing to steal. State property is used free of charge without theft. Therefore, we are under an obligation to make a decision. I said there should be a second reading, if the government agrees with those rules of separation, gas sales and transit, we can vote. And I urge my colleagues to resolve this painful problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u182	Thank you. So let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure the use of gas distribution systems on the basis of the committee's proposal (5058). Just on the ground, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Let's vote, colleagues. Based on the base. Vote. [[13:46:09]] For 171 I'll bet you another offer, colleagues. Return to the committee to prepare for re-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course. Colleagues, I suggest you go back to the committee to prepare for your first reading. Please support this proposal: 5558 return to the Committee for Re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:46:53]] For 193 And the final suggestion is to get the subject back on the right of the legislative initiative to work. Colleagues, let's concentrate so we don't lose the bill. It is proposed that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:47:27]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, the bill has been rejected. And, colleagues, the last draft of the Law of today's bloc, this is the draft Energy Efficiency Fund Act, which we talked about yesterday at the Conciliation Council (5598). And I'm asking you to vote on it for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:48:06]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG Zubka Hennady Grigorovitch. Hennady Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u183	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I'd like to take another look, and I'd like you to mobilize around this issue. I think that no national MP is looking for tools today to help every Ukrainian family in order to reduce the pressure of municipal tariffs. And on the other hand, create conditions for the energy independence of the state. The Energy Efficiency Fund, which is proposed for consideration, is supported by all experts, civil society, national deputies, factions, two professional committees – fuel and energy, as well as housing and utilities. We are very important to this law as a technical tool and as a financial instrument, which will enable us not only to make effective use of public budget funds but also to engage international aid. Today, the European Union, working last week, has made it clear that it is standing next to us and is willing to support financially the 100 million euro replenishment of this fund. I would like to say that this is the first time that we've turned the housing-communal reform to consumer needs. Directly this tool -- the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act, the Commercial Accounting Act, the Housing and Utilities Act -- creates a foundation for today's and multi-story buildings and individual buildings to go after thermomodernization. I just want to give you one example. On Saturday, I was meeting with the head of the OSBB and with the administration of the OSBB in Kiev, which introduced the first step only – the setting up of the ITP. In just one heating season, they saved 400,000 dollars, a reduction of almost every Ukrainian family that lives in this house by 3.5 thousand dollars. Please provide transparent management, tools, and international financial assistance. The IFC, which will be part of the Supervisory Board, will help in the direction of technical support, and with the help of the European Union, a free centre will be established in each area.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u184	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u185	And that's why I would like to point out that there are probably no questions today about finding tools that will reduce the cost of both the state budget and the Ukrainian family directly. And so I would like to ask everyone to mobilize around this issue, because I think that the most important issue that we need to solve in the inter-fire season in support of energy efficiency is not. Once again, I'm not just stressing the importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Hennaday. I'm asking everyone as concise as possible, because we have plenty of time. And I'd like to invite you to the report of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u187	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for today's serious fundamental debate, because the Energy Efficiency Fund Act is the last bill that we are considering today, but from the point of view of the priorities of state energy policy, I would like to put energy efficiency at number one. I'll give you one simple example that I use very often. Our neighbouring Poland, which has a smaller population, a smaller area, has 5 times more GDP, uses 1.5 times less energy. This suggests that Ukraine is one of the least energy efficient countries. We need a serious energy and energy-efficient modernization. It takes the money that we have to give to the population, to the households, to the OSBB, in order to make the thermo-modernization and energy upgrade of the entire housing fund as a minimum. There's very little in the government budget for this. In fact, we have, well, such a hot discussion with the government regarding the 2017 State Budget, 400 million for a program of very important "warm" loans and 400 million for an energy efficiency fund. I don't think that's enough. And I also want to thank our European partners for their support. This bill should be adopted in the first reading. He's got suggestions and comments on the committee and many experts, and I'm talking about it frankly, but it's an extremely institutional mechanism that's very important to the country today. I ask all the MPs to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u188	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to have a discussion, but I'm also asking you as concisely as possible. According to previous information, all factions and groups support the bill. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. Please. Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is extremely important because 30 percent of primary energy in Ukraine is consumed in housing, most of it is in industry, in industry. But 30 percent of primary energy is consumed in housing. At the same time, we're spending about four times as much as our neighbouring countries. So today we need a government support tool that is not tied to the annual budget process, and so that it does not depend on the annual decisions, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees on how to distribute and allocate funds. We need a tool that's understandable to people who go beyond this budget process. So everyone can talk about what's in this, and in the next year, and in 5 years, this government support program will be through a tool like the Energy Efficiency Fund. It is vital that we uphold the law despite issues that need to be further developed. At the same time, "The Self-Help Unit" stresses, and I point out, in all political factions and groups, all national MPs, that without the Housing and Utilities Act, which is consistently put to 20th place in the vote, we cannot fully implement the energy efficiency programme. Because, despite the 10,000 associations of owners created during this year, 3.5 million people believed in the reform of housing management. The rest of the people can't join co-financing because they don't have effective managers, they don't have a typical management contract that's provided in the Housing Services Act. So, colleagues, I very much ask you to support this bill, self-help supports it. But we can also put the Housing Services Act on the first hour of voting on Thursday, and then we can say that we're going to start implementing reforms effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u190	Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u191	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. Dear colleagues! Clearly, the issue of energy conservation, the issue of energy efficiency, has long gone from purely economic to security issues for every citizen of our country, and generally for our country. That's why our National Front faction supports this legislative initiative and urges the entire Parliament to vote as a basis for the first reading and to take the first step towards creating the Energy Efficiency Fund of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u192	Thank you. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u193	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. First of all, I want to welcome the government, which at last, from words to words, even a little bit to action, has gone over and started to use tools. And I want to thank Mr. Hennadia Zubka. And on the other hand, we see huge problems with the government's awareness of their real work on economic recovery, and the export credit agency is sabotaging. Industrial policy issues are being fully sabotaged. It's good that we're working in energy conservation and at least starting to copy what other countries have done long ago. For example, we had a minister, a citizen of a very friendly country for us, you who told us that we didn't need any tools at all. And when the delegation and I were in Lithuania, we were saying that, please, you can take your fellow citizen, your minister, and show them the 45 business support tools that your country uses. 49 percent is devoted to compensation for the energy savings of OSBB. 40 percent is given to a company that builds a new factory as compensation. And there's a lot of these tools, and they're all being used. See what tools Poland, Slovakia uses, how the world stimulates energy conservation, stimulates industrial development. This law must be upheld. Such initiatives should be welcomed. I'd like to ask my colleague that we don't break up at the end of this session and vote on this bill. And there's no shame that we had in the last draft when we left gas oligarchs of the network in free use, which is a complete disgrace to the Supreme Council. So I'm asking you all to support me. Thank you to the government for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u194	Colleagues, there'll be a closing statement in two minutes, there'll be a vote. So I ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall so that we don't lose the bill. I'm very confidently asking all the national MPs to come to the hall right now, prepare for the vote. Now from Fatherland, Kugel is handing over Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u195	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I personally support this bill and ask my honourable colleagues to support it. But for me, for the head of the Energy Efficiency Subcommittee, these bills are generally for energy efficiency, just a pattern of government irresponsibility. Because the past government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, the government of Groisman, has raised tariffs, raised prices for people, and motivated this by European standards. So in Europe, before they raise tariffs, they're making calculations to make people know how much they're eating, they're minning subsidies so that people don't suffer from it, they're making similar funds to make people have the technical ability to replace windows, to put an I.T.P. This is done at the same time or before making such serious political decisions, when people just, 60 percent, have energy poverty and are sitting on subsidies. What we've experienced is that in three years in the field of energy efficiency, there's virtually nothing that even Europeans who pay their taxpayers for this fund are coming to visit us, and they say, faction leaders and government officials, put to the vote and vote for this bill. We know that this fund won't work if there's no bill of accounting, no energy efficiency in buildings. And in general, we've calculated, and there's this estimate of the number of jobs that can be created if you adopt a bill, for example, on the energy efficiency of buildings. So in the energy efficiency sector, we can create and give people 465,000 jobs. It's a warmer apartment, it's an energy audit, it's an energy conservation, it's the start of our industry that we all care about. And this is not done by post-majance authority. As far as the fund is concerned. The bill defines the corporate structure of the fund, but there are several uncertain things about its functioning. There are no questions as to where grants are given, where loans are given, or whether a grant will be given to the person who has invested in an energy plant his own rather than credit. I don't know if it's a matter of law or not, but there are things that need to be worked out for the second reading and voted in general for a reduced procedure, and I'm going to ask you to set up, support this fund. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u196	Thank you, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, please take up jobs, let's move on to making decisions. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs now. 30 seconds, another Gennady Zubko. And I'd like you to take your seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize. I know it's difficult, but today only 22,000 OSBs are waiting for this decision to move towards modernization. Today, a very large number of people in rural areas are also waiting for this tool to be put in place. Requesting to mobilize, assemble, and provide another powerful tool to reduce the pressure and burden of municipal tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-21-m0.u198	Colleagues, in the discussion, all supported, each voice has weight. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now, take the job. In two minutes, you can talk about any other matter. So please proceed to the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Energy Efficiency Fund Bill (5598) as a basis. 5598 on the base. Just on the ground, colleagues. Please vote, please support. All those in the room, please support with discipline. Vote, fellows! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[14:02:56]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I'll put you back. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, I ask you to take a responsible approach to the vote, especially when it comes to reform laws. Please take up jobs. Please, everyone in place? I'm proposing to go back to 5598, draft Energy Efficiency Act. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, please vote for everyone. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for my return. Let's vote, colleagues. Please let everyone vote with discipline. [[14:03:45]] For 223 [[B in m in s a l in]] Three votes, colleagues! Please, I'll do it again. Please come into the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And please take all your jobs, colleagues. A great, important reform. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, please! I'm offering to go back to consideration 5598. Comrades, one second! Let them all take their seats! Please take your seats, each voice has a weight, colleagues. And I ask you to vote for the return of 5598: on the Energy Efficiency Fund. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote, support. [[2:04:59]] For 227 We're back. Colleagues, please, I'm betting now. Please don't move away from your seats. I'm putting 5598 as a base, colleagues, as a base. Please vote. Please support a base of 5598. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Everyone, please vote carefully. We're voting on the basis of 5598. [[14:05:32]] For 227 Decision taken. Guys, don't break up, one second! Colleagues, we were approached by the parents of people with Down syndrome so that we could look at it today. Don't leave, one second! I'm asking you to take a closer look at the draft Social Services Act today. I'm not saying right now, so we can get through after the break. Not now. Now let's vote so we can move on, start off, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please support us to move to 4607 after the break, colleagues. Please support us to move on to 4607 after the break. Please vote, he's in the daytime. We'll support people with Down syndrome. Please be supportive. We vote, colleagues, that after the break we should put this bill in place. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[14:06:35]] For 215 Colleagues, well, I need voices to change the order of the day. Let's do it again, 30 seconds. Request to support people with Down syndrome, colleagues. It's not politics, it's the social support of our people. I'm going to make another suggestion that after a break we move on to this issue, so that on the day we celebrate and mention those people who live with us in society and need our support, please support us to move to its consideration after lunch. Every voice, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Don't leave! It's 30 seconds, colleagues, don't leave the hall. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support us to move on to his consideration after lunch. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:07:35]] For 224 Two votes! I'll do it again. Please take your seats. Colleagues, two votes, don't leave the hall. Guys, be human! Have dignity and honor, people. I'll put it again, colleagues, so we can look at it in order the day after lunch. I'll do it again. I'll bet again, colleagues. Please encourage us to consider 4607 after lunch. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please support and vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice! [[14:08:18]] For 240 Decision taken, colleagues. After lunch, we'll pass. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, colleagues. No, it's not. There's got to be a report. People will split up, we've barely pulled it out. So, colleagues, the Rules now announce a two-hour recess, and I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I want to emphasize, after lunch, we move on to 4607, and then we move on to the transport block. And I would like to welcome once again the adoption of the draft Energy Efficiency and Vice-Prime Minister Act and all the national MPs. Thank you, colleagues, and at 4:00 we'll continue our work. Colleagues, I'd like to ask the factions to come to me now for a consultation on the issue of citizenship. If possible, for a brief consultation of the head or representatives of the factions. I'm literally asking you to step up for a few minutes right now.
