ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u1	Good morning! I'd like to invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. Are you ready for your registration? Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:05:09]] 357 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. On Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the people's deputies, according to the Rules. I would like to stress that this is not from factions, but from national MPs. So if a faction or group doesn't get into the list, it doesn't mean that it has to be given a performance. Therefore, I ask everyone to participate carefully and conscientiously in the recording of the talk. Please be prepared and please record the performance at the Miscellaneous. Please. Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Oksani Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u3	Victor Pinzenik is passing off to Oksani Jurinec, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today, we are here to deputize the groups of the People's Republic and not only those MPs who are concerned with military education in Ukraine. This is not just a question of Lviv, although we will talk about the Academy of Land Army by the name of Peter Sagaidach. It may not hurt everyone, but today we're going to talk about the fact that we can't carry tank troops out of this, we can't disband this academy. Because, in fact, over a long period of time, this academy has shown that it is preparing experts, patriots, and heroes of Ukraine. Today, it's a trend or a general strategy that's not clear to the university today, for the students, for the teachers. We have standards, and for which we have voted that we are moving to NATO. We understand that West Point is a university that prepares specialists for the whole country. We have to have the same heights. The one who runs the tank battery or platoon is a patriot and this is the person who will then, in fact, be a professional defender of our state. Today, at the Yavorovian NATO Standards Field, instructors who regularly teach our young people there are the best places for this training. The Academy of Land Soldiers in Lviv today became the center where all the people who support Ukraine come. Today, not only are those who may not be a professional military man but those who understand military matters understand, and we turn to them that they are impossible to bear, to break up. And we're going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and we're going to say that it's not possible to support this decision. Please support the entire hall. I ask the support of those who are indifferent who understand the defense and defense of our nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u5	Heroic glory! I fully support your position as a Levian, that the Institute of Land Army is pride, and this is an opportunity to conduct foreign education, and the opportunity to provide patriotic training to the military that protects the Ukrainian state. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u7	Mrs. Irina, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, yesterday at 11pm in the United States, there was a full-time half-hour meeting of two presidents, which is a diplomatic success, because it was held before Donald Trump's talks with President Volodymyr Putin of Russia, which may take place in the format of the Great Twentieth Summit in Hamburg, Germany, in early July. For specific results. The Minsk agreements became the main theme in the negotiations. The President of Ukraine discussed with the President of the United States the implementation of the Minsk Accords and anti-Russian sanctions, as well as possible formats of participation of the United States in the "normal" format. Moreover, Trump and Prashenko discussed a common fight with a Russian aggressor. After the talks, the White House publicly stated that the head of state of the United States accepted the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, which is actively leading its policies in eastern Ukraine. And in this fight, Washington is ready to lay his shoulders on us. In support of this, the President of the United States demonstrated the relevant photos, testimonies, some materials and maps of President Poroshenko. This indicates that Trump is focusing on the issue of peace, first of all, on how to maintain a clear world order in Europe, particularly, and this is the key to supporting our Ukraine in resisting the aggression of the Russian Federation. During the negotiations, there was an increase in cooperation in the military-technical sphere, including the provision of defence weapons to Ukraine. In the energy field, arrangements have been made for the supply of U.S. coal to Ukrainian thermal power stations. Until the Russians take their tourists from Donbas and Crimea, the sanctions will increase. Shortly before the meeting of Trump and Dustenko, the U.S. Treasury Department expanded its sanctions list. Banks in the occupied Donbassy and the annexed Crimea were put under sanctions. The blacklist has even turned out to be Putina's favorite biker from the Night Wolf group. In all, list 51 contains a natural and legal person. Taking into account the duration of negotiations that Trump himself said extended throughout the day, the United States remains a reliable strategic partner and friend of Ukraine. I think this meeting has been a sign, a constructive and beneficial meeting for both sides. And to the end. For me, the most important thing for my mother is that the American President has expressed his full support and contribution to solving Ukrainian humanitarian issues, he has promised to help and free our hostages. Peter Prashenko handed Donald Trump a letter from the Ukrainian mothers whose sons became prisoners of Vladimir Putin. I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u10	I hope we can work together to get our heroes home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Kupry Vitaly Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I'd like to start with a phrase that I don't believe in Artem Petnik as director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. I'll tell you why. Over the course of the year, I've been sending him numerous allegations of crimes committed by top-corruption officials of the state. However, Artem Sitnik will not register these claims in violation of the Criminal Procedure Code. I have to go to court, make him work. I now have almost seven approvals from the Solomonese District Court of Kiev, which establish that it covers corruption, is the minister of Nasalik, who kills nuclear energy and purchases coal in LNR, DNR, but through Russia. This is Hendowski, who is not called to account for the registration of a runaway deputy named Oneshchenka. It's corruption on the Ukrzalznice, corruption on the mines that continues. I'm writing a statement, I'm showing it all. They then open the door to the judges' decisions and do nothing, absolutely nothing. After that, I hear Arthur Sitnik's statements yesterday that they caught the corrupts that are in the walls of the Supreme Council. It has happened that I have certain documents indicating who was detained, on what grounds in the case, so-called Borislav Rosenblatt and Mr. Polakov. So I'll tell you, if they keep working like this, it'll be a laugh, no such thing will come to a final end. Even if there was some money, there's a legal qualification -- bribe. A bribe is an unfair gain. And Sitnik claims that this money was obtained in order to bribe the district attorney to get some votes in the hall to pass the relevant bills to get a license to run a business. And then five minutes later, his absolute statement was that we found nothing like it, no confirmation. With such legal qualifications, this matter will definitely not be brought to a logical conclusion; it will fail. I don't think anyone in the room will vote for that. And Mr. Sitnik needs to think. We need to catch real corruptioners for real things. And they're sitting there, and in this room, maybe there's, first of all, the President's Office, they're sitting in the government, they're sitting in law enforcement. These are the people who have the authority to protect Ukraine, to make responsible decisions, and they don't. I'm drawing your attention to the absolutely destructive activity of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which has not led to the logical end of any case against corrupters, we have to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u13	Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich gives the word to Maxim Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u14	Good morning, dear fellows! Yesterday, the Attorney General's Office received a request from the NABU and the SAP that it is necessary to remove the MP's in touch with several national deputies on this list, and so am I. What do I want to say about this? First. I declare and demand as quickly as possible the application concerning me in this room, I'm not afraid of anything, I'm absolutely convinced of my rightfulness and the legality of my actions. Next. I want the whole state, all the media and the audience in this room to get to know the nonsense that I'm being accused of, so everyone can see that we've created the NABU organ today. Regrettably, when all nations expected it to be the body that would defend interests and fight corruption, it is now creating fairy tales. Next. There was an attack on my wife, she was beaten, the robbers took her cell phone and fled, and a criminal case was committed. I'm going to have to investigate this case. Third. What is the point of the accusation? That's because I lobbyed for amber mining. I mean, I don't have any attitude towards amber, I haven't developed any drafts, I have nothing to do with this, because I'm not a co-author of the bill. I wasn't there, and there weren't any of my assistants at, like, some kind of money transfer. And what Sitnik is accusing and telling me that it was worth going to my place, I have a question. If the NABU has been doing this for a year, why haven't they waited a few more hours, how would these mythical funds get to Polyakov and they took me with them, please? Because it's a fairy tale. I am convinced that the law is on my side, and Sitnik and the Cold Man are working outside the law. Why is this happening? Because it was the Deputate Control Group that was involved, the only one in the state, in the detection of the lawlessness and impunity of the NAB. Because we were the first to file a criminal case involving Sitnik flying state funds to London with her wife, and she used it for free. Because Sitnik, as prosecutor of the Kyiv region, one day his wife became the owner of many apartments. Because I was in Georgia last December and I was told how Gizo Uklava met with MPs and the minister of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u15	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u16	As they raped the business, they took and held people in prison. That's why I want to be brought to my attention about the inviolability, and I want this to be as public as possible, and the law on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u17	Thank you. From Self-Help, Wessel's Natalia Vasilovna passes it on to Egor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u18	I would now like to address the Levites. You know better than I do that you've been besieged, besieged for our actions, for our position, against the idea of writing in the Ukrainian Constitution that the occupation of the Donbas part is a feature of self-governance, as a requirement to bring responsibility not only to those who have shot people on the Eromaydan, but also to those who are covering them now, for our opposition to trade in occupied territories and to the self-occupier himself, who continues to give him the strength to attack our lands, our people. For these actions, this position of ours is now paid for by the whole city, everything, without exception, including people who did not vote for Andrew Sadowa or who have no right to vote at all because they were just born and are little children. I want to tell the Levites that this is the time when the city is to defend itself when the city is to fight for itself. Your culture, your traditions to honor the state, to honor its institutions, and the act that led the Self-Help faction of Lviv, Oleg Berezuk, Vice-Speaker Oksana Siroid, are also the actions of people who have no understanding, who have no decision here in the Supreme Council, as can be stopped by such cynical policies. These are good deeds, violent opposition, the ability to attract social attention, and today the whole country is discussing how to deal with this problem. But believe our experience, trust my experience without the active rebellion of people, without the protection of people's rights, unfortunately there is nothing that can be done. Nor protect the Constitution, nor hold murderers accountable, nor stop the trade in occupied territories and occupation. So I have a request for all of the lions, to be self - organized, to be able to do it, to be able to learn it in you. Unite, work together to establish public control over the actions of each official — the local, national, to help solve this problem, to lift the siege, and to restore the status of the European city of Ukraine, to which we are all proud and proud. Of course, we will be happy to come to your aid in this matter, since you have not come to our aid once in a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u19	From "The People's. Bodnar Mikhailo Leontijovich, please. He's handing over Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! Glory to Ukraine! You know, I've come out on this high rostrum today to make it world wide, including the whole of Ukraine to declare one such disgraceful factor as our justice system. Unfortunately, it is in the name of Ukraine today that the greatest crimes in our country are at fault. On June 14, 2017, the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal handed down the order and lifted the ban on shipments of goods to Crimea and from there, which was imposed by the Cabinet ruling in December 2015. I mean, respectable colleagues, these citizens' initiatives to block the occupied Crimea territory, our cousins. Friends of ours, the Crimean Tatars who went there on the crossing and we stopped the flow of goods to the invader, today it's all been canceled by one court in Kiev. I do not know which crime may yet be committed, but nevertheless I am addressing Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, and the government is obliged to make a new decision in order to defend Ukraine's economic interests. We ask our colleagues, our friends from abroad, to impose sanctions on us in Crimea, not to fly planes. Crimea does not have the right to board ships and, nevertheless, our court makes such a decision and allows this disorder. The second point I'd like to pay attention to is what's going on in my district today. In addition to the Lviv trash that runs all over the country, I can see that the ecological disaster is also in Lutsk. You have no idea what a terrible smell in town today. Laboratory studies of atmospheric air into the content of pollutants have set limits for concentrations of ammonia and hydrogen. And according to previous data, the cause of the stench is the sewage waste of the enterprise: impurities and household faecalities. You know we have a local disorder in Lutsk today after the death of the city's head. I'm not going to deal with the right or wrong decisions of Lutzka's deputies today, however, they're not going to deal with the city's problems today, and they're going to decide which one of them is sitting in the right chair. So I request the Minister of Ecology of Ostap Semerak, to create a working group and invite you to my district in Lutsk. We'll understand that in a few months it won't go away, but, nevertheless, so that we don't accuse the central authorities of inaction and that we don't announce hunger from this rostrum, I invite Mr. Semerak and his task force to Luck. Let's put the system in order until the local authorities can handle it. Honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Halasuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, for every law we have to set very strict criteria for answering questions. Does it increase the country’s security? Does it make the economy stronger? Does it create new jobs and production? Does it increase financial stability in the country? Does it make the bracelets stronger and the prices stable? Finally, does it protect the environment for present and for future generations? So this is the metallurgical law that we passed last week with you in this room 260 votes fit all of these criteria. It must therefore be signed, acting in the interests of the Ukrainian industry, the Ukrainian society. Who can assume the obligation to take a job with the Ukrainians, take a perspective from the Ukrainians, and take a future from the Ukrainians? No one at all. We have to face facts. The first eight months of operation of the Metallurgical Act increased the supply of raw materials by 30 percent, allowed for the preservation of 20,000 jobs in the mining and metallurgical complex, increased the budget revenues from the same metal trade, added an additional one-and-a-half billion dollars to the country's trade balance. These are all the first effects of a higher rate of duty that has to be extended for another two years. The same situation with the strategic moratorium law for 10 years for the removal of roundwood from Ukraine. Our team of the Radical Party analyzed the impact of the law in 2016. Exports of processed wood increased by nearly 10 percent, while the country’s total merchandise exports decreased by almost 5 percent. Tax revenues from the woodworking, furniture, and paper industries increased by 20 percent. Two and a half times. Think about it. Two and a half times. – increased imports of woodworking equipment into the country. And that's all the investment, that's all the jobs, that's all the welfare of the Ukrainians. Dear colleagues! All branches of power -- both parliament and the President and the government -- must take account primarily of the national interests of Ukraine: the security and defence of the country, jobs, financial stability, the creation of confidence on tomorrow for every citizen; not stealing perspective from their own people, but creating a new perspective, expanding horizons for the Ukrainian State. So we have to adopt these industrial laws. We have to stand up for the state's position on all reforms: not to sell the land of agriculture, but to make the master of the Ukrainian farmer who lives and works on it; not to destroy the pension system and the medical system of Ukraine, but to make them a European modernization. That's what the Radical Party faction team is calling for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u23	Thank you. Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich gives the word of John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. During the days, the President of Ukraine stated that there was a need for early cancellation of pension taxes for working pensioners. Of course, Fatherland, as an opposition faction, welcomes the fact that 2.5 years after the introduction of this shameful norm by the previous government of Yatsenuk, the President of Ukraine has finally pointed out that pensions of working pensioners are taxed in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Pensions are not taxed in any country of the world, and pensions are taxed in Ukraine. On April 22, 2015, i.e. more than two years ago, the Fatherland faction registered a very short bill under number 2698, which envisions a single rule: to restore justice and abolish pensions for working pensioners, and to restore the functioning of the Constitution of Ukraine. This bill has been passed by all the committees, the bill is ready for consideration in this sessional room. If there has been such an urgent statement by the President, we ask the honourable Head of the Supreme Council, as the faction of the Fatherland, to immediately consider this bill and accept it as a basis and as a whole. He's ready to go. And let's put a dot on this speaker. You don't have to talk. We need to adopt legislation in this session room that is long overdue and that solves specific problems. Just as we demand the immediate adoption of Bill 4631. This bill cancels people's paying by paying the utility bills to pay the bank interest and a penny for the bank to make money on utility services. Let's take this short bill. He's ready to be examined and the "Fatherland" faction handed him over. And in the end, if everyone really wants to raise pensions for pensioners, we're going to have those pensions up. Then let us obey the laws in force. That is, to index inflation, which has reached more than 200 percent over the years, and then retirees will have a normal pension, as stipulated by the law in force. If we think it's totally unfair for some retirees to receive one pension, another, let's restore what the government of Yulia Timoshenko has done and return the marginal pension equalization, the pension pension for pensioners. And then those early retirees will get the same pension as those who are now retiring. So you don't have to invent a bicycle. Laws will be enforced, and there will be no need to invent a bicycle in the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u25	The Royal Natalia Yuriovna gives the word "Vilkulu" for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u26	Honorable Ukrainian National Peoples’ Deputies! Now, perhaps the most painful and discussed in society, these are medical and pension reform projects. When people see these government-designed projects, they're just afraid of their future. Everyone understands perfectly all the deep problems that are present today. And the need to buy drugs, bribes to doctors, and much more. However, the cost of heating, electricity, medical bills, and so forth is still borne by the State. And if a person who can't pay now gets to the hospital, help in any way, but it's useful, even in a small village. We are against reform, which is the essence of paying medicine, closing down medical facilities in small towns and villages, and privatizing hospitals in the future. Bill 6327 does not determine the limits of the number and cost of paid medical services. But in Ukraine, 60 percent of the population, according to the UN, lives outside the poverty line. That is, those who cannot pay must die. So we need to look for mechanisms to increase funding, including through the introduction of compulsory insurance at the expense of the employer, rather than simply destroying what is unfunded but is. With regard to pension reform, the goal is to raise pensions rather than increase retirement age and reduce the number of pensioners. How can retirement age be raised in the country by means of a pension promotion mechanism in which one in four, five is either out of work or not properly formed, and seven million Ukrainians are forced to work abroad because of unemployment. The proposed increase in employment from 15 to 35 years is a masked increase in retirement age in the worst possible way. Starting in the 18th year, it takes 25 years to get a work pension at 60 years of age, and at 28 years of age, 35 years of age. Already at the first sharp increase in insurance to 25 years in the following year, the real retirement age will increase to 63-65 years. At the average age of men in our country, 66 years will not last long before their retirement. The government wants people not to have pensions or to have no pensioners? Who can buy 85,000 years of internship? And if you don't need an internship, social assistance is 400 bucks. It's bullying people. We need to develop an economy, we need to develop an industry. And from that, take the money and raise the pension. What does it take? To be chosen by this Council, which adopts such laws. And that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u28	And so that the Council and the government are Ukrainian, not the ones that accept documents for IMF arrivals, not working to improve people's lives, and they don't even discuss their experiments with people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u29	And the final performance of Korčik Vitaly Andriyovich, the final performance, gives to Oleg Medunice. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u30	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. I would like to dedicate my address to the budgetary problems of the unsolvable that we now have in our country. I want us to take our time in the work of the Supreme Council in the next plenary week and resolve the budgetary problems that have already been solved by the budgetary committee in which I work. Because we need to urgently accept changes to the State budget, to the Budget Code, which refers to various aspects of public life. In particular, we already have a lot of debt to companies that provide subsidies services in the field of LAG. Municipal and private businesses don't get the money for their services because we don't have enough money in the budget. There is a government position to allocate an additional 15 billion dollars to these needs. We need to put into practice the position of the People's Front on allocating additional funds for the Wall project, for its implementation, for the engineering buildings that are included in this project. Because very often there are popular calls from this rostrum, like where the Wall is, where the funds have been allocated. In fact, only 15 percent of the cost was allocated. This year, only 74 million dollars were allocated instead of 300 million dollars. So it is now necessary to allocate 500 million dollars from the funds that have been allocated to the state budget under special confiscations in order to continue to equip engineering facilities on the Russian-Ukrainian border. We need to accept the changes to the budget code. We started an experiment very well in the state when the money that comes from redefining regional customs revenues goes to the local budgets that are then used to build roads in Ukraine. But these costs don't go to. They don't go to repair and build utility roads. The Supreme Council now registers the changes to the budget code number 6308, where the authors of all the totally-deputy factions that are in this Parliament, so that the funds go, including on the roads in the cities, because now they only go on public and local roads. So we have fruitful work to do with you. And I want the chairman for the next plenary week, the faction leaders to put the day in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u32	To put into order the daily work of our work the very budgetary issues that call for an urgent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in three minutes we'll be moving into the agenda. And I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall because we're going to have to start by voting. Now, I'm going to read out a statement that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from factions and groups about a break that they're willing to replace with a speech from the rostrum. And I understand Anton Yatzenko will be speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! And I'm addressing, first of all, faction leaders, the media. In Ukraine today, there is a situation that has virtually stopped funding our citizens’ treatment abroad since May. Children are usually involved in such cases as oncology. And so these people are just destined to die, they're trying to raise funds by volunteering, by media means, but that's a total drawback. I've repeatedly raised this issue on Government Day, at other events. And that's why I'm asking everyone to join in. There have been several requests from the national MPs to immediately make changes to the budget, to fund at least 300 million dollars of this treatment. Our people are dying. The other problem is the same. Now I was approached by the Ministry of Health as a national deputy to provide money for joint endoprosthesis. Today, many of our citizens are simply bedridden because this state has to finance and not finance. I ask both the Head of the Supreme Council and all the national deputies to join in so that the matter can be resolved as soon as possible. Please, all of you, back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u35	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. The first is the draft Order on the European Parliament on the introduction of additional EU trade preferences for goods originating in Ukraine (No. 6517). Colleagues, I'd like to suggest that you consider it as a reduced procedure, if it's your will and your decision. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please. As always on Wednesday, we start with our interstate agreements so that we can make more decisions today. Please support the initiative to review the reduced procedure. Please take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal for a draft decision on the European Parliament (No. 6517) to be considered for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:42:28]] For 134 134. We didn't make it. Colleagues, please come into the hall, there is a health issue today, and it would be right if we could reach them. I'm asking everyone to take a seat and support the offer. I ask you to prepare for the vote, once again, to take up the motion for a motion for a motion to refer to the European Parliament (6517) for a reduced procedure. Please support, vote, vote. [[10:43:58]] For a hundred and I'm going to put the vote again, if we don't go through the full procedure, which is, I'm going to put the motion for a brief vote again, and I'm going to ask you to take the jobs, go into the hall, not go out. Please come in and take your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Decision on the Appeal to the European Parliament (number 6517) should be considered for a reduced procedure, and each vote is relevant, I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Please support, we vote. [[10:45:08]] For-143 There is no political will in the room for a reduced procedure, and we are moving on to a full procedure. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Committee on European Integration, Captain Olen Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I want to tell you what gave birth to the decree and what became a prerequisite. In fact, there have been dialogues at this stage for over a year, i.e. the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Ukrainian side, for the purpose of extending the preferences, the trade preferences that Ukraine has today within the area of free trade. This is due to a decision made a year ago by the European Commission that, due to the loss of Ukraine through Russian market aggression, including Russian markets, the Russian Federation’s blockade of transit through its territory to Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and other countries, Ukraine has suffered a significant loss of its previous, traditionally historic, markets that have taken place since the Soviet Union and the post - Soviet period. In view of the two key challenges we have today, Russia’s war against Ukraine, and in view of the fact that we are forced to transform, in fact, trade markets, the European Commission, taking over, including the commitment to help Ukraine expand these trading markets within the European Union, has actually prepared a draft decision a year later that has been tabled to the European Parliament, and which Ukraine was expected to look forward to, within the area of free trade, trade preferences. These trade preferences, they apply particularly to the goods that Ukraine currently chooses within the quotas proposed under the WTO, free trade zones. This means that these are the quotas by which Ukrainian producers are actually competitive and have the ability to expand these quotas, have the opportunity to get additional European markets. After the draft decision had been prepared by the European Commission and had been submitted to the European Parliament. I was sent from the committee to meet with the European Parliament and Mrs Mikolska as a representative of the Ministry of Economics. There was a sufficiently broad presentation of the need to introduce quota data, given the additional preferences. We have language, of course, that we would like to get these additional preferences on a permanent basis. At this stage, the term preferences are considered, that is, for a period of time. However, in connection with the introduction of certain deputies, the European deputies were considering the changes to the general list proposed by the European Commission. As a result of these proposals, the list was reduced, inter alia, to remove the provisions on the allocation of additional quotas for wheat, tomatoes processed, and a zero rate for urea was removed. This is once again, I emphasize, those products that are competitive, where Ukraine is a top-producer and where it is the middle-sized business, the Ukrainian medium-sized business, which is particularly in need of support, unlike the big one that already has European markets today. Thus, after this quota had been reduced in the European Parliament, a proposal had previously been put to the vote which did not fully correspond to the proposal made by the European Commission and which we expected. In this connection, the Committee on European Integration, along with the Ministry of Economics, discussed the possibility of a political appeal from the Ukrainian Parliament to the European Parliament to support the European Commission’s decision, a draft decision, in full terms, as proposed in the original edition without excluding any goods, or excluding zero tariffs. In this way, we think that this will be a sign, including the political sign of the European Union's support not only by imposing sanctions on the Russian Federation, but also through greater liberalisation of Ukrainian producers, medium-sized, small businesses in European markets. In this regard, I ask you very much if someone has not come to know this text, to get to know it and to support it. We hope that as a result of this political appeal we will be heard by all the groups, all the political groups of the European Parliament, and as a result the European Parliament will vote on the decision without exception and without any reduction for Ukrainian producers of trade preferences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. On the question to the reporter three minutes is given, please record. Slow down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u38	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. I'd like to do that. First of all, let's focus on the fact that, in fact, we now have a loss of markets from Russian aggression, and we understand that very well. And what the reporter said about transforming markets is that we should all support it and that's fair. But I would also like to ask you what the basis of the goods will be in this direction, what is the basis, what is the basic goods that we should transform into a European market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u39	I can answer that. Thank you so much for asking. Once again, the principle that at least these additional preferences should be increased. This is a principle under the current Free Trade Agreement. Today, these quotas that are already foreseen, which we are exporting at zero tariffs and the European Union, are the first condition. And the second condition is those quotas that Ukraine really chooses, because in fact Ukraine does not choose quotas for all goods. And that means that the European Commission came up with a proposal that, in fact, where Ukraine can get the maximum economic effect, it's basically goods that are products of agro-industrial processing, in particular processed tomatoes, including corn, it's wheat, urea, yes, it's true, and it's also part of manufacturing goods, particularly shoes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Bond Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u41	Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, we have just heard a report on the draft decree. If you speak a more simple language, it looks like this. First of all, the Agreement on the Association of Action on the Production of the Agricultural Complex, because it's the most competitively capable, that's the first. Second, by the positions we have. in which we have a fairly substantial export potential, such as wheat, Ukrainian. Our European colleagues in general ignored and accordingly did not support the increase in the quota. And I have a question, you're saying right now that we're talking to the European Parliament, based on the media, the information resources of the European Parliament, they've already voted in favour of the Commission's proposals. So what are we going to vote for in this House for now, because, as far as I know, this proposal by the Commission is already supported by the European Parliament? Can you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u42	Yeah, yeah. Thank you for asking. First of all, I have to fix it a little bit so it doesn't get distorted in the information space. We're not denied wheat, we're keeping the quota. The only thing that we've asked for 100,000 tons has been approved by us today 65,000 tons in addition, which is not a refusal, is just a reduction from what we've been asking for from the European Commission. As far as your question is concerned, that's why I asked the national MPs to take a look at the draft. This proposal clearly states that we are asking for a re-examination of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u43	Thank you. And the last question is Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u44	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, it is important to increase the quotas for our production in the EU countries, especially when it comes to agriculture, because 40 per cent of exports are made on the basis of our agriculture and I think you are a failure. It's important that you comment on the question. Today we have a quota of 950,000 tons of wheat. We're going to have 65 next year or 65? This is quite important for producers, because quotas for maize, grains and technical crops are too small today in the EU. This does not allow us to cover what we have lost. And the second. Please tell me, do we have any calculations today, how are we going to increase quotas by 19, 20, 21st? In order for our producers, our business understands directly how to launch their capacities and processing enterprises into those quotas, the increased quotas that we will be offered. Is there a direct chain? So we can understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u45	Thank you so much for asking. Really. Once again, very specific. It's only about extra preferences. This means that all the quotas that we have today, they are definitely being kept. We're going to get extra quotas. What we asked for in addition is 100,000. So far, we've had 65,000 added to the quotas that we have today. So there's no way this decrease is going to be, in any case it's going to be an increase. We just want to take this opportunity right now and make it a maximum increase from the point of view that the European Commission agreed to 100,000, not 65. Now for further calculations. At this stage, this decision will work for three years. Why is it so important for us that these are the maximum currently approved quotas? Because this will be the basis of a further trilogue for the possibility of expanding quotas within the free trade zone. We have to take into account that, today, Ukraine is a party to the Association Agreement and including free trade as an ingredient.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u47	We already have. We accepted, so we agreed on certain quotas. In order for them to be reviewed, we need our joint work, so today we are addressing Parliament, not just as the European Integration Committee, and we ask that we support the expansion of the quotas that exist today, and I am a step towards further negotiations on the wider expansion and opening up of new quotas, where Ukraine is competitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Helena. Now we're going to the section "Exhibitions from factions and groups." And I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups, please. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Mr. Soloj Igorovich, please. From the rostrum, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u49	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Each of us may well realize that if we want to achieve economic growth in the long run, we will not be able to do so today at the expense of the internal market. And so perhaps the most successful alternative is the growth of Ukrainian exports and exports to the countries of the European Union. Whether or not the policies of the Ministry of Economics are fully justified in lobbying Ukrainian export quotas to the European Union. To my deep conviction, today this policy is not enough and we must make every effort on all chains, starting with the government, ending with the Ukrainian Parliament. To extend the export quotas for Ukrainian products to the European Union. And today's address is this next step, the position of the Ukrainian Parliament towards solving this issue. But what I want to say is, besides taking appropriate references, we need to think about how to strengthen our internal infrastructure that will contribute to Ukrainian exports. Because today it is particularly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain, for example, information about the possibility of exporting their products to the countries of the European Union. Today, it is extremely difficult for a Ukrainian manufacturer to pass the relevant certification in order to be able to export his products to the European Union. Today, Ukraine’s business, primarily small and medium-sized businesses, is virtually devoid of long-term lending tools in order to be able to export, including products. That is why we need to think today about how to strengthen the infrastructure of Ukrainian domestic business and to strengthen the ability to support Ukrainian exports, and this needs to be addressed both by the Ukrainian government and by the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u50	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team requires the authorities to pursue economic nationalism. Any agreements signed on the outside arena must pursue one goal: creating jobs for Ukrainians so that our people can earn money. Unfortunately, today’s authorities are pursuing a policy of preserving poverty and transforming Ukraine into an orphan. The government in exchange for another loan from the European Commission is under an obligation to cancel our moratorium, which our team has achieved here in Parliament, on the ban on the removal from Ukraine of unprocessed roundwood. This means that thousands and thousands of Ukrainians will lose their jobs in Ukraine and will continue to cut off our forest from Carpathians to Montenegro. Last week, Parliament voted on our bill not to allow metal to be exported from Ukraine to load raw materials from our domestic metallurgical enterprises. Once again, the European Commission is pressing us to allow us to export the scrap metal. This means that 300,000 people working in the country’s metal industry will spend months without jobs, businesses in Mariupola, Zaporozhye, Dniepri, Kamyansk, and we will export metals abroad so that foreign workers will have jobs. Is it a policy to protect national interests? No, it's not. Tomorrow, the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, according to my information, will be in Brussels, where he will discuss including the issue of the imposition of a veto on scrap metal and the possibility of allowing an exit from Ukraine to the forest. I call on President Prashenko, in negotiations with international partners, to demonstrate, not flexible backs, but the protection of the national interests of Ukraine, which he must adhere to firmly and unfailingly. Ukraine cannot be transformed into a raw income. It is not possible to export grain, unprocessed forest, and scrap metal from Ukraine. They want our grain, they want our metal, they want our forest, they want to bring new equipment to Ukraine, they want to stand here, they want to create jobs for Ukrainians, they want to recycle, and they want to export ready-made products. But the key is not just to expect international partners to do their job. We need a radical modernization of the core funds. Our industry is extremely outdated, extremely energy efficient. So the only possibility is to upgrade. That's why the Radical Party team is offering to exempt any new technology from taxes in order to modernize our industry, so that Ukrainians can have jobs and wages rather than get married as bums.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u52	The People's Front is Kodol Alexander. Please. Guys, I can't really see, I haven't got my glasses. Kodola Alexander will pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u53	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, it is certain that the representation of our Ukrainian products in the world, the export of our products, is a basic perspective and a goal for each of us. That's why the People's Front faction unanimously supports this appeal and votes in favour of the European Union's decision to introduce additional trade preferences to goods originating in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u54	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Babak Alona Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u55	Sergey Kiral, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction, of course, supports the above-mentioned appeal is absolutely fair when Ukraine is at war with an aggressor, we have to do everything we can to push and cooperate, and negotiate with our trading partners, open new markets and show. Demonstrate the potential of our production, which is competitive in our production. But on the other hand, dear colleagues, let's also remember that for over 25 years, we have been talking to you about the famous Ukrainian potential and we are not asking ourselves: and what have we done as an authority, like all citizens, to make this potential completely open, to create proper conditions in the planning and legislation, and to fight corruption, and the proper judicial system so that property rights can be protected so that our entrepreneurs, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and large enterprises, can receive cheap resources and create those so-called competitive products that could later be exported, exported to a conference, go to exhibitions and show them around the world? Unfortunately, we haven't done much and we haven't done much because all these years our economy, our country remains closed to external, first of all investment, for modern technology, equipment that can actually make our products competitive. But there are other problems. Today, colleagues also talked about problems related to infrastructure. We are not physically able to drive goods abroad today because there are no railway connections, there is still no agreement on a common aviation space that would allow luxury companies to enter the Ukrainian market and allow small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to travel west, in European countries to communicate with their partners, there are corruption schemes related to so-called permits. For transport companies. All of Ukraine’s times of independence were strangely ended in September, and then companies appeared to be brokers who, for gross money, found the possibility of exporting Ukrainian carriers. One day after Maidan, these permits began to end in March. And here I would like to go to the Ministry of Infrastructure, conduct a proper investigation of this situation, expose corruption schemes, and allow transport companies to drive our production abroad. So, dear colleagues, let's support this appeal, but let's not forget the household work that we all do together, and Ukraine in general, we should do as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u57	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich "The Opposition Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u58	Germany, Vasily Ivanovich, "The Opposition Block". Please pass the word to Vilukulu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u59	Please, Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u60	Alexander Villkull, the Opposition Block. Unfortunately, Ukraine has lost more than 25 per cent of our industrial capacity over the past three years. Industrial production has fallen. Despite the signed agreement, the economic agreement with the European Union has fallen by 20 per cent over this time, more than $3 billion, to the countries of the European Union, even though it would seem to rise. We only support the policy of national pragmatism. Are we interested in the European Union market or not? Of course, yes. This is one of the richest markets in the world, a five hundred million-dollar market with a very high purchasing power. Do we have restrictions on access to this market? It's very serious. Unfortunately, our machinework can't put anything there, starting with the question of what's missing from the product and ending up being artificially held back by certification. I stress that this draft regulation, which is now proposed to vote, will not affect anything at all. Why? The European Commission has already adopted a small quota increase, and the European Parliament voted in favour. I emphasize that this is an expansion, a small quota increase, which is calculated in several tens of thousands of tonnes of copper, tomato, juice, but it does not concern our main export products, for example, only 950,000 tonnes per wheat, although our export potential is more than 15 million. In addition, other aspects are not mainly addressed. What we are told is "let us invite the European Parliament to re-vote what they have already voted on" clearly that this will not even be considered. If we want to address the issues in a fundamental way, we need to take a completely different approach, the project of which has been registered by the Opposition Unit. Much work needs to be done by the IIA, and our Government needs to work seriously. We propose to vote on the draft appeal to the European Parliament and the European Commission, in which the quotas and duties on Ukrainian goods will be removed, which will then be effective assistance to Ukraine, and then it will be investment, and then it will be jobs. What we are invited to vote now will lead to nothing but a simple political declaration. Let us vote on the draft regulation adopted by the Opposition Unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u61	From Fatherland to the word Ivchenko is invited. Three minutes, yes, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u62	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! It is quite important that the loss of Russian markets is compensated by our total trade with EU countries. But at the same time, I want to report some data, today our trade with the Russian Federation is mutual, more than eight and a half billion of them are exports, Ukrainian exports to the Russian Federation over three and a half. Yes, we export 37 percent of our product in the EU, we export 10 to Russia, but these are today's direct relationships. And what about our Rotterdam Plus and Hab Plus formulas, where we actually buy coal and Russian gas only at European prices. I mean, before exports to the RF, January-April increased by 54 percent, and today it's almost 540 billion. In context: India – 530, Turkey – 415, Poland – 400. In particular, there's almost 40 percent of agriculture in our export structure. But we know that it's impossible to make quality agricultural products when you don't have just mineral fertilizers, today the mineral fertilizer market in Ukraine is dying. We export mineral fertilizer for 30 billion dollars, by the way, our chemical industry could provide almost 21. And what are we doing? We buy almost 70 percent of the imports, coming from Russia, from Russian companies that directly affect our economy and our national and food security. And if they stop shipping chemical fertilizers, mineral fertilizers to Ukraine, what happens? My colleagues, and I want to say that this trend is increasing. But at the same time, I want to remind everyone that the European Union is not just quotas and trade, the European Union is our face, it is democracy, it is the rule of law. Do you know what we can say about European faces when opposition is being eliminated today? Today there is total pressure on the leaders of the opposition. Timoshenko is remembered 20, 30 years ago, by some American courts. But this is the only policy that goes quietly to the United States without a car, which meets with the President of the United States, and this is the verdict, this is the verdict of the Americans on how the government worked. I want to remind you of the gas agreements. Colleagues, should not the court determine guilt, not a committee, but a court? Today it's Timoshenko, today it's Sadowy and our faction has supported it. And I, by the way, want to say that a lot of the deputies have approached and supported Oleg Berezuk, let's have a European face and let's stop the pressure on the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u63	The next chapter of the discussion is a presentation by the national deputies. It is hoped, according to the Rules, 15 minutes and I ask those who wish to speak, to record the speeches by the national deputies, please. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please. Debtenko. Dudenkov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! What draft document is being considered? The point is, once again, I repeat that there will be no economic gain from accepting this document. Because, in fact, the European Parliament has already supported the Commission’s proposals with some warnings regarding Ukrainian soft wheat that refer to processed tomatoes and urea. Perhaps the European Parliament is not a Ukrainian Parliament that votes several times for its decisions. In this case, what I'm saying is that we need to take a fundamentally different approach, we need to either cancel these quotas commercially, or increase them in general, but not by 50-65 or 100,000 tons, but by millions of tons. Just think about it, in accordance with the EU Association Agreement on the creation of a free and inclusive area of trade. The following quotas are based on the basic Ukrainian export potential: 950,000 wheat, 14 million tonnes exports, 650 000 maize, 18 million tonnes export potential, 250,000 barley, and 4.5-5 million tonnes export potential. You can see that the export potential and the corresponding quotas don't suit the interests of the Ukrainian manufacturer. Unfortunately, the fact that at the 2014 plenary meeting during the signing of the political and economic part of the Association Agreement, there are a lot of MPs who are now forming the coalition who have been yelling at us about what will be better, we will do without the Eastern neighbour, we will do without the SND markets, and in fact it turns out quite differently. Why? Because, in the 13th-14th year, exports to the EU of 15-16 billion, in 2016, exports to the EU of 13 billion, where is the economic impact of the Association Agreement? Unfortunately, it's a campaign. Regrettably, these quotas, which have protected European counterparts from their producers, do not protect or defend the interests of the Ukrainian manufacturer. Unfortunately, the Association Agreement does not have an economic advantage in terms of industrial production, in terms of products with higher value added, because we have not passed certification procedures we cannot go through because this is due to historical reasons that we have developed a different area of machine building, aviation, rocket construction of another sector of heavy industry. We find that under those conditions that were signed in 2014, the agreement is inconvenient and so is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u65	Finish 30 seconds? You don't have to do this, okay. Thank you. So Chizmar gives the floor to Igor Mosiyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u66	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, there is very much to be said now about whether or not the Association is implementing the Free Trade Zone. But first of all, I'd like to ask a few questions to ourselves, first of all, to be honest about how we can approach foreign partners if, for example, sanctions are imposed against Babakov and, in Ukraine, Babakov owns the skynergo. Is that possible? How abroad they can look at it. We demand sanctions for Crimea, and at the same time, the Kyiv Court of Appeal annuls the Government's Ordinance on the Prohibition of Trade in Crimea, how does that happen? Soon the Cave Court will cancel Parliament's ruling on the self-removal of Yanukovic. Next. Come on, there's a lot of people talking about amber right now, and I don't know, and it's got to be the court, the prosecutor's office, or the people's deputies who are accused of it. But I know for certain that all those who did not vote for the legalization of amber are to blame. Because billions, billions are in the shadows. And we want the West to look us in the right direction? No, it's not. What does our team of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska suggest? We propose not to walk around the world and ask for quotas, but to modernize the Ukrainian economy, to modernize at the expense of allowing for duty-free imports of equipment that will run the modern economy. We insist on the policy of economic nationalism, protectionism, when the Ukrainian manufacturer, when the man of work, Ukrainian, is more than anything for the government than to go to Europe, Moscow. At first, kneeling in front of Putin, now in Brussels, in Washington. That's unacceptable! Kiev’s interests, the Ukrainian’s interests must be more than anything. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u67	Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich gives the floor to Husak. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u68	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! We listened very carefully to the presentation of this decree. And I'd like to pay attention, and I'd like to remind you once again about a few numbers. In 2013, before the Association Agreement was concluded, until we are told that Ukraine's European integration path, exports from Ukraine to the EU amounted to $16.8 billion. In 2016, after much success, exports to EU countries amounted to $13.5 billion. We have a 20 percent drop. I'm stressing this isn't Ukraine's total exports. This is not a loss of markets because of the conflict with Russia, it is a fall in exports to EU countries. Hello. Next. There was much talk about Ukraine’s great success in increasing quotas, particularly for wheat. And the reporter said, "We asked. We made it. But we asked for 100,000 tons of increases, and we only got 60." Dear colleagues, the total exports of wheat from Ukraine in 2016 amounted to 18 million tons. So either 100,000 tons or 60,000 tons is a drop in the sea and will never solve the problem of the Ukrainian economy. I would like to point out that this decline in exports is not surprising. Because today's authorities and especially executive authorities, starting in 2014, have hardly been dealing with economics, manufacturing, real-sector problems. We've got a drop in exports because we don't have the Crucifixion. Often, the same wheat or the same iron ore or the same metal or other products of Ukrainian exports simply cannot be transported to ports, because there are no rails, or locomotives, or, if there are locomotives, there is no diesel fuel. The last violent incident in Europe when the railways were stopped for repairs, the Cruise Station missed cars with Russian ore, while Ukrainian producers were forced to cut production by this time. The question is, who does she work for? That is why we once again urge the Ukrainian Parliament to address the real sector of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you that the vote will take place in six minutes. Two more shows. And I'm addressing the factions' heads, the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that in five minutes there will be a decision to arrive at the voting room. Now I give you my word for this: Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We are finally discussing an extremely important issue in Parliament. Because creating jobs for Ukrainians, strengthening our country's economy, expanding the external and internal markets are key issues that need to be addressed for one purpose. This is the only way to get Ukraine out of poverty, out of the swamp, inhaled swamp of raw dependence and economic incompetence. The credits that the government receives from the International Monetary Fund in exchange for closing down hospitals, closing schools, raising the retirement age by selling land do not solve the key issue — the mass poverty of Ukrainians. This can be done on one condition. A radical change in economic policy. A radical change in monetary policy. For our business to be able to borrow cheap loans, to be competitive. And the state must create conditions for the protectionism of its own national producer in the internal market and in the external markets. The association agreement, the free trade zone with the European Union, showed that it should be reviewed. Because quotas in many positions of goods, primarily agricultural goods, are scarce. It's not a Free Trade Agreement, it's a cavern where our noses won't let us move. So I demand that the government initiate negotiations to review the Free Trade Agreement. President Poshenko met with President Trump yesterday. I hope that, apart from the security issues that the United States has fulfilled its guarantees under the Budapest Memorandum, we have discussed, I don't know if they have discussed. But if I were President Prashenko, I would definitely raise the question, this is the United States implementation, including the economic guarantees that they gave to Ukraine under the Budapest Memorandum. What I'm saying is that today the United States has invested only $700 million in direct investment in Ukraine, 13th among investors. So I think it's about time we asked about a free trade agreement between Ukraine and the United States of America. We need an American market that's big, that's all-inclusive, that's competitive, and, above all, there's money. We call here from word to word to deed to investment, to put money here, and to create jobs. In addition to the European market, there is an Iranian market after sanctions, Asian markets. That's why the Radical Party team managed to create an export credit agency to support national manufacturers. That's why we're now seeking the adoption of the Industrial Parks Act so that our business has competitive advantages compared to foreign producers. Our key task is jobs for Ukrainians, wages for Ukrainians, and worth living.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three or four minutes. I really ask all factions to contact their national deputies, who are not in the room right now, this decision is important and therefore unacceptable so that we cannot accept it and support it. And I'm just going to put it to a vote and wait for the MPs to gather in the room. Now, let's just get as much mobilized as we can and invite the deputies into the hall. And I invite you to the word of Anna Hopko. However, Ostap gives her the floor to speak. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to inform you that yesterday there was a hearing in the Bundestag on the subject of "The Historical Responsibility of Germany to Ukraine." Kremlin propaganda systematically creates the impression that the German oncoming war was waged exclusively against Russia. And that's why it's very important that in the Bundestag they're talking now about the millions of victims in Ukraine who were then affected, and the Germans are talking about responsibility. And I was pleased that yesterday and Monday, for two days, together with the former prime ministers of Lithuania, representing various political parties, social democrats and conservatives, they merged with a simple goal -- to talk to German politicians about the European or Lithuanian plan for Ukraine for 2017-2020. This is a kind of Marshall plan for Ukraine, which post-World War II Europe received in 47 years to have an economic recovery so that the communist plague among Italy's impoverished population would not spread through investment. And so I think that today, when we are discussing the draft Appeal to be supported on the introduction of additional EU trade preferences to goods originating in Ukraine, I very much hope that after the successful visit of our Parliament Speaker, Mr. Andria Paruba to Washington, after the successful visit of President Prashenko, we will continue to visit Brussels, we must unite everyone in this Parliament to work together to ensure reform, an effective fight against corruption, in order for all key points of the world's capitals to demand an Investment Plan in medium and small businesses. We can call it Marshall's plan, but the economic growth we saw in 2017, 2.3 percent of GDP, given that 5 percent of GDP we spend on the army, on our defenses and defenses, is not enough to ensure the development of small and medium-sized businesses. So now with the Lithuanians, the Poles, we've already made a visit to Washington, we've now had Berlin, we're going to have Brussels, we're asking that there be a separate plan now, not IMF loans, not macro-financial assistance, that is, a large investment package in key sectors of the economy that will help small and medium-sized businesses create jobs, an active Ukrainian class not to go out for codon, work here and above all, develop those sectors of the economy that will give high added value, that's the space sector, that's the IT, that's the innovation, and support our Ukrainians with talent, high-intellectual, and support the development of Ukraine. That's why I want to thank my Lithuanian friends for taking the Lithuanian Plan for Ukraine 2017-2020, for their principled position and their visits to Washington, Berlin, Brussels. Let us form a coalition of friends of Ukraine that will help us to grow economically. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, the section on "Reputation from the People's Deputies" has been completed. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Colleagues, look at the board, time is up, I'm acting honestly. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs right now. I see some other MPs are good. Now the closing word of Captain Olena Sergiyevna. I can't see. Mrs. Olena. In Kabmini? Well, it's sad, I'll say, during the vote. So, colleagues, I'm going to run a rating vote first with your permission, so we can see what our potential is, and then we'll wait, and then, if we don't have enough votes, we'll wait for our colleagues. I know why I'm saying there's only going to be a rating vote right now. Please come into the hall. Give Mary Jonah, one minute, a representative of the committee, who was actually preparing the decision. Please, Maria Ionova, one minute. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Once again, I point out that this is our political address. And we've heard here that the deal is not like that in 2014. This is a market where 500 million consumers. And in order for us and our government to fight for a quota increase, for an increase in preferences, we have to bring our legislation into line with the European Union standards, our goods to be competitive. So it's our internal homework, too. It's all in the Association Agreement. We just have to do it. So please, let's just do our homework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u75	Thank you. So let me stress, I'm going to put the rating vote first so we can see if there's enough support. If we don't have enough votes, we'll be gathering deputies. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And I am voting on the draft Resolution on the European Parliament on the introduction of additional EU trade preferences to goods originating in Ukraine (number 6517). Please vote, please support. Let's vote, folks. Please be supportive. [[11:34:57]] For 228 228. Okay. So I'm asking to be there because there are enough votes, but at the border. And we're going to the vote. I therefore put to the vote the draft Order on the European Parliament’s application for the introduction of additional EU trade preferences for goods originating in Ukraine (No 6517) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:35:47]] For 221 221. Something happened to me, I think. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, I'll be back in a moment, please mobilize who's out, who's gone. Ready? Please come in. So I'm voting on the proposal. Here come the Eurooptimists, that's good. So I'm making an offer. I'll wait for Mustafa. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for the Bill of Decrees (6517). Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:37:10]] For 225 What's the matter? One voice. Well, I saw it, I saw it. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting (I see, yes) the proposal to go back to Project Rule 6517. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:37:52]] For 229 And once again, I'm putting regulation 6517 as the basis for it as a whole. Colleagues, every voice matters, don't go out. Please support 6517 on the basis and in general, please vote, please support in an orderly and organized manner. [[11:38:22]] For 230 It's been decided. It's a victory. By factions, please turn on. So, colleagues, we now have a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening child safety assurances (3579) and I ask to vote in favour of its review in short notice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:39:06]] For 178. Decision taken. And I'm asking you, it's just very dynamic to look at it. And I invite you to the report of the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child of Kulebu Mikolaiovich. Are you going to come out of the rostrum or from the rostrum? Let's get out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on strengthening child safety assurances (registration number 3579), introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. This law is based on many factors that lead to violations of children’s rights to safety, life, health, and development. Today, nearly 12 percent of the children in Ukraine have suffered from the occupation of Crimea, military aggression by Russia in eastern Ukraine. Nearly 600,000 children left in occupied territory are now internally displaced, and nearly 100,000 are now living in a collision zone. Under such conditions, the protection of children, their rights and legitimate interests have become a priority, and they need to review established approaches to national security. Whether we can protect our children depends on the future of our nation. The amendments proposed by the President of Ukraine to Ukraine's laws on the basis of Ukraine's national security and on the principles of internal and foreign policy aimed at strengthening State guarantees and mechanisms to protect children from external and internal threats in all areas of the state's life. To this end, the head of state is proposed to regulate that the protection of childhood is one of the important components of Ukraine’s national interests, to establish that the preservation and strengthening of the family’s institution is a priority of the State’s activities, which are dependent on the continued development and existence of society. Identifying that one of the main threats to national interests, Ukraine’s national security is the rise in the risk to the life and health of the civilian population, primarily children as a result of war or armed conflict, and establishing that the basic principles of Ukraine’s domestic policy are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u77	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u78	That the basic principles of Ukraine's internal policy are the creation of an effective system to ensure the realization of children's rights, their security, their well-being, their growth in the family environment, the prevention of social orphans, and the non-violence of children, their involvement in criminal activities. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the adoption of the bill and the implementation of its provisions will contribute to the strengthening of State guarantees for the safety of children by creating favourable, stable, secure conditions for their full life and development.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u79	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the committee’s Subcommittee on the Family of Youth Sports Policy, Spores Ivan Dmitrović. Please be brief, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! Today, we are really talking about strengthening the security of children. The committee considered the bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening child safety assurances submitted by the President of Ukraine. The bill is designed to strengthen State guarantees for the safety of children from external and internal threats in all areas of activity. The chief scientific expert of the Supreme Council's apparatus made a number of comments on the bill, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs decided that the bill had no impact on the budget. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee stressed that the protection of children’s rights must be enshrined in laws that regulate the national security of Ukraine and the principles of domestic and foreign policy. At the same time, members of the committee proposed, when adopting the bill, to amend the Preamble and article 4 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which define the protection of childhood in Ukraine as a strategic national priority, which is important for ensuring Ukraine's national security, the effectiveness of its domestic policy and provides for adequate conditions to guarantee the safety of the child. Also taking into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, two paragraphs are proposed to be removed from the text of the bill relating to amendments to the Ukrainian National Security Foundation Act. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft bill on the basis of the Committee’s proposals. The observations are made and set out in the draft decrees, please support, because this is about protecting children in military conflict, vagrancy, homelessness, poverty and so on, and the bill is working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u81	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u82	This bill operates throughout Ukraine, not just in places, there, in the east and so on. So I think we should unify today’s hall and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u83	Thank you. My colleagues, once again, I call for flexibility in our next bill is very important and very short so that we can reach it. Please record: two in, two in. And I strongly urge everyone to have a brief discussion. There's no one there, all of them. Nemirovsky Andry Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u84	I'll pass on the word to Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u85	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u86	Thank you. Alexi Poroshenko, 12th constituency, Winnitzkina. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko considers it an undeniable duty for Parliament to support this bill, so we will vote for it in the first reading. This is about enhancing the protection of children, especially those who need increased attention from the State. In particular, the increase in child care, homelessness, violations of the rights of children, the increase in the number of orphans and children deprived of parental care is suggested to be compared at the legislative level to threats to national interests and national security in Ukraine. The law pays particular attention to the basic constituent State of the family. It is suggested that a family institution be strengthened to contribute to the full life and development of the child in the family environment. It is important to establish regulations to prevent violence against children and to involve them in criminal activities at the level of national security legislation. Obviously, this bill is important and provides a legislative basis for further work in strengthening the security and protection of children’s rights and cannot be ignored. So once again, I urge everyone to support him in an unanimity manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u87	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Kostenko Pavel Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Anna Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u89	Anna Romanova, Self Help Union. "The self-help union will always support every bill that strengthens the rights and guarantees of children. To the terrible figures that the President-in-Office has given us, I would like to add the following for all the deputies, for my colleagues. During all the years of independence, Ukraine’s child population has been halved. Nearly 106 thousand children are currently in boarding schools, but just think about it, 92 percent of those children have parents and only 8 percent of the children are orphans. Ukraine also placed a disgraceful 186th - century birthplace. Today, Ukraine is also a disgraceful second place in the world’s mortality rate and is surrounded by Lesotho alone. Also, every three days 250 children are admitted to boarding schools and mainly because of poverty. More than 600,000 children are now in difficult circumstances. All of us remember the experiences that just sounded throughout the country, when Mother abused five - year - old Sasha, she beat his teeth with a hammer and his father kept quiet, the social workers kept quiet, the teachers also kept quiet, the Saxons did not go to the kindergarten, and it did not confuse anyone. If we don't now introduce a package of bills that protect children into national interests, national security, we can lose the country tomorrow. Also with the strengthening of State guarantees on childhood, we have the next step in adopting a number of bills that reinforce the responsibility of parents, educators, and social workers for doing nothing so that we do not always translate responsibility for what remains of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u90	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u91	So that we do not translate responsibility into child mortality, either in the family or in the children themselves, in order that we may always be responsible for inactive adults and protect our children. Thank you. I'd like everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that there will be a vote in two or three minutes. I ask both the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the deputies to prepare for the vote. Now from the Radical Party, Lozov, two minutes, then Yvchenko, one minute, and then we finish, which is three minutes to the vote. Please, Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u93	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. I'm not going to marry you, my dear fellows, for the obvious right things. But when we talk about the safety of our Ukrainian children, we also need to take care of information security. And today, I'm sorry, kids are just raping the psyche. First of all, through the TV. We have absolutely no information system to protect children from hostile influences, including. Last week, our leader, Oleg Lášk, and colleague Igor Mósiyczuk, were privileged to associate with one of the wisest people in the country, in my opinion, Professor Igor Pasichnik, founder of the Ostrov Academy, which he had reborn. Igor Demidovich gives a very eloquent example. When a little Polish kid is asked, "Who are you? – Polack kid – What's your sign? - White eagle. Baby. That's what I'm And you're surprised to learn that in Poland they live better when they're brought up with patriots when they're young. Why do we have to teach our children? At best, nothing like fox, dog, bear, cat. Which of these children will grow up?Oh, my God! But there's a lot worse. Now Moscow is being bullied by the media, primarily via the Inter Channel: it's being raped. information pedophiles who rape our children's psyche. They are now preparing the action "The Immortal Regiment 2" on June 22nd -- the day of the tragedy, the day of the outbreak of World War II in Ukraine's major territory, when children were taken from school on the front. They try to distort it by manipulating historical facts, by trying to show that the Ukrainians are not the only one, trying to quarrel Ukrainians with each other, simply manipulating Moscow's interests. It's done. beneficiaries of this channel: The first ORT channel, Lewochkin and Firtash, are the owners of the Inter Channel. The U.S.S. has to take immediate action and ban these individuals, ban Hanni the Manner, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u94	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u95	I urge and ask your support, the Ukrainian Security Service, to take immediate action to violate the information security that poses a threat to children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u96	Thank you. Yvchenka, one minute. And, colleagues, in one minute there will be a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and join all the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u97	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland supports the bill on strengthening child safety assurances. Amendments to the Ukrainian National Security Framework Act propose that national interests should also be prioritized by preserving and strengthening the family institution, creating conditions for full life and development of the child, its security, well-being, and growing in the family environment. You know that today’s main real and potential threats to national security are the increasing risks to the life and health of civilians, especially children as a result of war or armed conflict. Increasing carelessness, homelessness, crime and child abuse, violence against children, increasing the number of orphans. Of course, the bill is declarative. We need to be clear, because the explanatory note says he doesn't need any extra budget costs. But I think we need to step up social protection and include it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u98	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u99	and to include in the budget the following year, our bills, real programmes to protect the safety of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u100	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I hope that this bill, which aims to protect the rights of children, will unite the entire room and all factions will vote independently of political affiliation. Please, we're taking up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening child security (No. 3579) on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:55:19]] For 215 We're not there yet. 215. We're not there yet, but I'll be right back. Please invite me to the hall. Invite the people's deputies into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to maximize your mobility, take your jobs. I'm asking you to show me the factions so that I can navigate. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 95, "National Front" – 53, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 19, Radical Party Laska – 16, "Fatherhood" – 10, "Will of the People" – 2, "Party Rebirth" – 6. Colleagues, let's mobilize and get back to the debate and vote. Ready, yeah, everybody in place? I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 3579 on enhancing child safety. Please vote in favour of the return to consideration 3579. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:56:40]] For 218. I'll do it again. Let's, guys, mobilize the special faction composition. Invite some of your friends who are now in the towers that are now out of bounds. And please don't leave the hall or go into the hall. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Ready, yeah, can we vote? Everybody in place? Don't leave the hall, please, boys. Come on, don't come out. Let's set it up for a second. Come back, one second. Please, I'm putting the vote back to 3579. We'll wait. Stop, stop. We'll wait until our friends get ready to vote. You're ready, aren't you? Ready to vote, right? I'm asking you to return to 3579 for your return. Please vote and please support the return to 3579. The Presidential Bill, which we have to support, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:58:27]] For 222 Four votes, friends, four votes. I see there's two deputies. Don't leave. Andrew, my friend, right away, please. The MPs are coming in, the voices are coming in. Please prepare, mobilize, and four deputies have just arrived. We'll wait until Mr. Ivan. Please, friends, take your seats right away. And I propose once again to go back to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on strengthening child security (3579). Guys, Ira, come on, 30 seconds. Don't leave, please, my friends. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. Support, vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:59:37]] For 230 And now I'm putting the bill of Law 3579 on the basis of the committee's proposals. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:59:59]] For 231 231-yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, we have the next bill without amendment at all, but, I see, we don't vote anymore. So, my colleagues, according to the Rules, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. I invite everyone to the hall at 12:35 to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u101	Colleagues, break time is over. Please come into the hall to continue our work. I would also like to inform you that the following questions are awaiting us from the Health Committee, two of them in second-reading psychiatric aid, are very short, there are literally several rights. And so I suggest that we start with the decision, and then, once the mobilisation is in the hall, we quickly passed those two laws in the second reading. If there is general agreement, there is no objection, then I announce the move to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Medical education in Ukraine: a view to the future." What is more, there is an opportunity for us to be able to exchange more fully information on medical reform. So I ask you to prepare for the vote now. And I'm voting on the motion to consider a reduced procedure. So you're ready, right? I'm voting on the proposal for a draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation resolution on "Medical education in Ukraine: a view to the future" (6467) we're looking at a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[12:40:22]] For-94 94. The hall has a strong conviction that the bill should be discussed in full procedure. And I invite you to speak to the 6467 Irina Sisoyenko report committee. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! On March 22, this year, there were parliamentary hearings on "Medical Education in Ukraine". The purpose of these parliamentary hearings was to conduct them in order to solve many of the problems that exist in medical education today. More than 450 participants from all branches of government participated in parliamentary hearings, from representatives of medical schools to students who also participated actively in these discussions. Parliamentary hearings focused on the state, problems, and the main perspectives of health education, higher health education, higher pharmaceutical, dental education, and the preparation of medical personnel for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. These included extensive discussions on the training of younger specialists, a system of postgraduate training. The reform of health education is to be an important step in building the entire health system of our state, and a number of recommendations from the Cabinet of Ministers have been formed following the parliamentary hearing recommendations. This is because the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, is responsible for developing a strategy for reforming the health education system, with a view to bringing the programmes into line with European practice before and after-graduate training doctors. The first language is to develop and improve the quality of the primary health care chain, because we all have to understand that if our state is moving towards the development of the primary work chain, so first of all we need to ensure that the qualifications of family doctors, therapists, pediatricians are improved. These are the doctors who work on the primary chain. These recommendations also confirm the mandatory adoption of government programs for the training of nurses who play a vital role in the provision of medical care, as well as the training of health - care managers. And I would like to stress this in particular, and I would like to point out to you that if, as of the following year, all medical institutions in the budgetary institutions will become not profitable, not commercial, but enterprises, so the philosophy of managing medical institutions will change. And it's very important that those chief doctors who are now be effective managers as directors of medical establishments. Appropriately, we need to step up our work in preparation for health - care managers. I also want to point out the importance of increasing the role of legal escorting medical institutions. So we have to put in place and develop medical law, and we have to introduce medical law departments based on medical institutions. Also with the aim of building a complete road map of health education reform, the recommendations include specific tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. And we very much expect that the recommendations that we are about to make with you today will become mandatory for the execution of all the executive organs in order for the real reform of medical education to take place in our country. So, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Health Committee, I ask all parliamentary factions to support and vote in favour of parliamentary hearings on medical education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u103	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter, three minutes, please. Please, wolf. To Lozov, Andrew Lozov. Please, Andrew Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u104	Please add another minute down there, I'm in the record. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Andrew Lozova, the Radical Party, I urge you not to call this a medical reform, because it's not a medical reform, it's genocide. Reforms should be called what gives people better living conditions and what makes life easier and more comfortable. What Is Happening Today? Our leader, Oleg Lazko, has already traveled halfway through Ukraine to the hospital, including in Žitomirščina, in Vilnius, Volina, and no medical expert who supports this genocide, which is sometimes called reform. The scariest thing about medical education is that for many years a person who wants to be a doctor has to learn and it's a very difficult learning, and then he gets a pitiful salary. The intern doctor who comes to the hospital today, who's been studying for six years at the University of Med, two years at the University gets a ridiculous salary of 2.5 thousand dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u105	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u106	We need to radically raise the wages of a medical worker. Now, what's the point of learning people in general if this so-called medical reform is going to shorten thousands of doctors, especially narrow-minded professionals. It's an open-minded abuse of people, and I urge my colleague not to vote in second reading for this so-called medical reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u107	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u108	I want to go to my colleague and ask you to be careful when you speak, because we are now looking at the approval of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, exclusively on medical education, and your speech was about the health reform of the health system itself. So I'm asking you to express yourself on the subject of medical education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u109	Please, Igor Shurma, let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u110	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear Mrs. Irina! I have this question to you, recently, and your faction, including, voted in favour of a bill that eliminates a government order. That is, directing people to work after learning in a state form of education. Please tell me what you think is right. So in the absence of 30,000 doctors, no one will go to the village, is it right for the state to spend tens of billions of dollars to train doctors, who will not later go where they are needed, and where the state thinks it's right to correct them, because people are suffering from the absence of doctors, and in these circumstances we are simply spending money today. And how medical universities are supposed to work, if it's all going to be a commercial link. Should it be a paid education or free education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u111	If this is a question to me personally as a representative of the Self-Help Unit, then I will answer my personal point of view and the representatives of my faction. What we've finally changed in Ukraine is the strength that has existed for many years in terms of medical students, I think it's very good. And all the students in medical schools are very grateful to the Ukrainian Parliament. That's the first one. Next. As to the need for medical workers in villages, areas, and remote areas, this is the reason why doctors, including young students, should be able to go to the village and work there. This can be done only if the local authorities create the right conditions for such work: providing housing for them, providing them with a car that they will be able to drive around populated areas and villages. So we have to understand that only by creating conditions in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u112	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u113	Only by creating conditions can we talk about the fact that there will be health workers in the villages, and before we do, we will not build the primary medical care link that you are so concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for the report. Now we're moving on to factions and groups. And I'm asking you to record a statement from factions and groups. Please. From the Self-Help faction, the Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich. Please, Mr. Lev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u115	I'm going to the rostrum. Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. Today, we are discussing health education, education, which is designed to create a quality specialist, a quality specialist who will not be afraid to give in to personal and all his children, the opportunity to treat and ensure the life and health of every Ukrainian citizen. In order for a medical student or any student to become a medical student, education has to lead to a prestigious place of work, to a prestigious salary. Thus, all changes in the medical system are directly related to the matter. The bill that we've recently discussed and adopted is actually a bill that doesn't talk about medical reform, it talks about changes in the systems of medical financing. We're talking about 80 billion dollars that are now in the budget that is spent on medicine today and in recent years. But do we see these 80 billion that they go for? Can I ask any doctor if he sees these funds? Of course, no one's seen this money, because because it's just an inefficient use of funds to maintain medical facilities, I'm not even going to tell medical institutions, it's more often a facility. In fact, changing approaches in medicine when every patient can choose a doctor when every patient can choose a medical facility to give him medical care, and introducing the concept of "medical services" can lead to doctors who are the most effective, the most quality, who provide the most services and help to patients being more successful in matters and financial security, rather than being the anchors of this system. We can achieve that these health-care facilities (again, I don't specifically say bets, but "rooms"), which are where the most high-quality doctors, who have normal infrastructure, will be able to be successful in the area of financial security and have enough funds. And that's where the reform of medicine begins. This opens the way to future insurance. And it's also very important, and that's what we've foreseen by our laws, various sources of funding for medical services. It's like the government funding I was talking about, 80 billion dollars, in which money goes to the patient, will be financed by medicine. These are also local budgets, these are other budgets, other costs, including insurance. So we need to speak the truth and not be afraid to go ahead and make, in fact, changes in medicine, since everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u116	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u117	Since everyone is being completely critical today, I have not heard a single statement from the Supreme Council’s rostrum to support today’s medical condition. Everyone criticizes, but, at the same time, most people say: "No, you can't change anything." So bad is medicine, or do we have a beautiful medicine that we can't touch? I believe that we all have a responsibility to reform and to make it effective. To make medicine an effective industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u118	Thank you. From the Opposition Block is Šurma Igor Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u119	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, today we must vote in favour of the ruling that is, the recommendations of parliamentary hearings concerning medical education. There were probably three hundred people in that room who were sensitive to the training of medical personnel. Why are health issues so difficult for us today? And I'll tell you why. How many people are there? Not a card, but people? Well, one hundred and fifty. Will the question put to the vote be here? There's a high probability that it doesn't. What Is on Wednesday’s Vote? What's going to fail and what's not necessary. And today there were two laws on psychiatry that would not be voted on. And today the parliamentary hearings will not be voted on, for there are no people. This is the attitude of executive, representative authorities to health issues and reforms. And now I'm going to tell you why there's no reform going on. And reform does not go because the government has no concept, it has no strategic vision of how to make changes. And these parliamentary hearings, they should be part of this concept of reform. Because, look, there was a speaker in front of me, and I'm not going to call my last name. His father is one of the best traumatologists in Ukraine for all time! What kind of system has prepared it? Old. So they're trained to train professionals. Exterminated to this day. Are there any experts here today? We're being trained by experts. But let's see what the authorities are doing. He's putting an end to today's sanity service. And at the same time, in all universities, there's training at the medical schools, and tens of millions of dollars are being thrown out to train professionals who won't have jobs. We're saying that we're eliminating the fortitude from heading for work. I won't discuss it. So be it. Students don't want to go to the countryside. But please tell me, if the state knows that there are 30,000 doctors missing on the primary chain today, it's putting money into the training of those doctors, well, of course she wants those doctors to work there for that money. It's not a camp, it's a public service! Now for the question. The distribution has been cancelled, government orders have been cancelled, and billions, I stress, are spent preparing professionals. Medical universities, they're all funded by the state budget, if everything goes into new forms of farming, whether the state has to fund our teaching and teaching supplies today, and people need to know where they're going. And we have no idea. Because you know why we don't have reforms in education itself? The point is that when we had parliamentary hearings here in the hall, there was no minister of security here from the Ministry. the acting minister of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u120	30 seconds, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u121	So I have a question. What is the criterion of good medicine for us? Eight years of med school, two or three years of boarding school or four years of medical school in the United States without education? So if you don't know if you're going to pass our exams and tests, you're going to test the American education system, you're not going to know if you're going to have a good time in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u122	Ten seconds, finish up, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u123	There's no minister, there's no concept, there's no money, there's no raw materials, this is our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u124	From Fatherland, Lucenko Igor gives the word Sergey Eutuska. From the rostrum or from the place? From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I thank both the committee and the acting Irina Sisoyenko for creating an opportunity and course for those practicing doctors, for those students who represent the higher classes where they teach our students, our future doctors, to discuss a very important question. Indeed, reform in Ukrainian society has long been ripe. And that's understandable. But could there be a reform that is not backed up by any financial resources at all? And of course not. So we're saying it's a simulation. And that's why we, the Fatherland faction, didn't vote for certain things. first reading, and in general voting obviously we will not. Now about our children. Children who are now studying in medical universities are the foundation of the medical field in the future. They obviously want to understand right now what conditions they're going to be working in, where they're going to be working in, where they're going to be working in, where they're going to be working in, where they're going to have a material and technical base, where they're going to be able to create conditions for a normal job that they're going to have to have a payday, how much the state is going to guarantee them some social pay. If we look at it, there's a lot of problems here. And without directing funding to implement this reform, we already realize that the output is going to be zero. You could take the basis for reform and do it in a few steps. First, we need to understand the primary link in the context of the decentralization of the organization of territorial authority in Ukraine, we need to understand what's going to happen in the FAP, in the original chain. A total of 30 percent are now being serviced there, and decentralization provides for a completely reverse process, a process that will allow 70 percent of our services to be delivered to our citizens in the primary chain. Instead, we see the opposite. Emergency medicine. We don't really understand, at least this reform, as we did in the National Police, when they paid both wages and cars and special clothes for the police, it's more or less like reform. Not to give these things, but to demand reform is obviously not going to lead to anything. And I also want to focus on the issues that are very acute today in the bottom management chains. The government decrees a list, a national list that does not allow local budgets to finance the purchase of individual medicines. Changes are needed immediately because there are diseases such as orthopaedic diseases, mucoviscidosis, and these are children who need funding. So we don't see how we can do that in places.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u127	I therefore call on the Cabinet of Ministers, personally the Prime Minister, to make changes to the ruling, to allow local authorities to purchase the list of medicines they need in their seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u128	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Moseschuk Igor gives the word Láško Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last Sunday, our doctors celebrated a professional health - care worker’s day. And I want to welcome once again all our doctors, nurses, paramedics, labs, doctors, scouts, cleaners, all those who work in the medical field, which is why we get medical attention. I had the opportunity on the eve of the professional celebration of our best medics to hold a series of very wonderful, important and extremely interesting meetings with the hospital teams, particularly in Zitomir in the district hospital, where Chief Doctor Bogdan Leskiv, in the Plain District Children's Hospital, where the head physician Vitaly Boyko, in the Volinsky district hospital, where the legendary Chief Doctor John Sidor, our former National Deputy colleague, over 30 years old, has made a wonderful hospital, you come to Switzerland. So I was happy and had a great opportunity to communicate with these best medical representatives. I have not heard at these public meetings a word of support for the so - called medical reform, a single word. I have a question to the government, to the Ministry of Health, and how can we initiate an extremely important key reform in the state without being interested in a professional environment without having a prior extensive, broad-based, public discussion of this medical reform? The answer is obvious because both medical and land and so - called pension reforms are not carried out for the Ukrainians, this is all done for the branch, the execution of the so - called lighthouses, the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, so that the President or the Prime Minister can then be promised another loan. What the hell is your credit if Ukraine becomes poor as a result of these loans, Ukraine becomes a raw colony, Ukrainians have no treatment?Oh, my God! The so-called medical reform, initiated by the authorities along with the International Monetary Fund, pursues one goal: to translate the health deficit into Ukrainian pockets. As a result of these so - called reforms, the most needy people, pensioners, people with special needs, multi - child families, and low - income families are the first to suffer. Instead of creating jobs by increasing the wages of Ukrainians, from whom more taxes will go to the budget, and from there more funding for medicine, they are engaged in what is called an optimization of the medical sector, which will result in millions of Ukrainians being left without medical care and hundreds of thousands of medical workers being expelled to the streets without work. The Radical Party team, my iron team, does not support these genocides. We are on guard for the interests of our Ukrainian medics and for the rights of Ukrainians to a health system.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u130	Thank you. And from Peter Poshenko's Block, Soloj Igorovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u131	Yury Solovay 89th district of Gutzulščina and Pokszy. Dear colleagues, by the way, the consideration of this document in Parliament's walls is a powerful testimony of how unfortunately the Ukrainian Parliament is moving in parallel, and the parallel direction is moving, in particular, the part of the Ukrainian government that is responsible for medicine. Because, on the one hand, we are talking about the need to support health education, and on the other hand, for example, on April 24, 2017, the Ministry of Health is issuing its order to make a minimum threshold for the DPA to enter the 150-point health facility, which is 75 percent of Ukrainian potential graduates for medical education. This problem, I want to point out from this high parliamentary rostrum, is extremely acute today for medical institutions. Literally last week, at a meeting with the rectors during the Education Committee’s retreat, a number of health - care directors spoke of the problem. And so in the course of my speech, I'm officially calling on the Ministry of Health to cancel this order in 2017, and if you want to do that, spread it from 2018. In addition, if we are talking about medical education, dear colleagues, we need to understand clearly that medical reform is necessary to prevent serious systemic changes in medical education. Does today’s time - challenge meet the proposed changes by the Ministry of Health? Absolutely not. Because in large numbers, we're changing one budget manager -- the Ministry of Health to another -- the National Health Service, without any systemic and structural changes. And the only way out, to my deep conviction, if we want to talk about a serious gap in health care and health education, is to introduce health insurance, a topic that we've been talking about for 25 years in the walls of parliament, including, but unfortunately, a topic that we can't translate into reality. Nevertheless, I hope that, in addition to discussing medical education and during the discussion of medical reform in the walls of a professional committee, we will take this important step and the system of the second and third levels, which I have repeatedly stressed, we will put in place a system of compulsory health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u132	Thank you. So all the factions and groups have said, now we're moving on to the speeches by the national MPs. Has anyone done anything? They all did, didn't they? So now, for 15 minutes for the national MPs, please hold the record. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich. Yeah, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u134	However, since parliamentary elections and medical bills and Parliamentary hearings on medical education are still at stake in Parliament today, the health care system in general should not be overlooked. We need to understand that, unfortunately, for 25 years of the independence of our nation, the parliaments of previous calls have not adopted any system law in Ukraine that would change the principles of the health financing system. And this year alone, Parliament of the Eighth Assembly is trying to take the first steps. The first important step was to vote and adopt the Ukrainian Law on the Autonomization of Medical Institutions. And in the form that we are voting today on parliamentary hearing recommendations, we also understand that as of next year, medical institutions will become non-profit-making, not commercial enterprises, so the role of health-care managers who will become business leaders is being strengthened accordingly. Thus, the mechanisms of administration, the mechanisms of legal escorting the appropriate work of medical institutions, will become very important and relevant, and this must be provided with the medical education of the professionals concerned. Thus, the parliamentary hearings at the Health Committee have been very active in bringing this issue into line with the fact that it must be made mandatory for the implementation of both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. It is also very important that we create appropriate conditions and constantly increase the qualifications, provide assistance, including legal resistance, are medical workers working on the primary chain. Speaking of what might happen next year, the work of the primary chain will be started, and doctors will become physical persons, entrepreneurs, and we also need to help and teach this category of medical workers, and how do we now work in those new conditions? But we need to be clear that Ukraine is obliged to move forward, and we are obliged to adopt new laws that will build a medical care system for patients. We have to move on from the Soviet standards that have been preserved in our country for so many years, and adopt all those laws, and make those reforms that all post-Radians have done. And only Ukraine is trying to make those changes after 25 years of independence this year. So I ask the entire room to now vote in favour of parliamentary hearings on medical education, and the Parliament must continue to be very active.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u135	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u136	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I also want to join the greeting of all the medical professionals who celebrated their professional festival on Sunday. And I can see that Lynchevsky Alexander, deputy minister of health, is present in the hall. A few months ago, I and my colleague Ostapas Edenka tried to help a girl from the Brodes who was sent to undergo a transplant surgery after a heart transplant to India. Just a week ago, the operation was successful, and the girl had already come out of rehab, thank you to all her colleagues, I was speaking from this rostrum, who joined the fund-raiser, and together with the Ministry of Health, we were able to send a large number of children to such operations together with the Ministry of Finance. In the future, the Ministry of Finance assures us that it will increase funding for this program. I would very much like to ask Mr. Alexander, what is the problem with not having such operations in Ukraine? Is this just a problem with experts who don't learn that it's a matter of hearings, recommendations for medical education? Is this the problem of the Transplantology Law that we adopted in the first reading and that somehow it lies on the committee and is not being carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u137	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u138	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party My dead, the kingdom of heaven, my grandmother and my mother, medical professionals, wanted me to become a medic. But I didn't have a knack for it, and when I was a kid, I didn't see myself in medicine, because I knew I wouldn't benefit society and people, because it wasn't mine. But I know a lot of Ukrainian boys and girls who would love to get medical education right now and become a professional medical professional. But for the time being, what kind of medical education might be the subject of medical reform if they are not available, if no one has seen them, and most importantly, they have not been seen by a Ukrainian doctor or by a Ukrainian patient. Everyone's talking about reform, but no one's presented it. And what was voted in this room is total corruption. It's 80 billion that will be concentrated in a single agency where famous people will be sitting, they'll be distributing these funds, and most importantly, this distribution will lead to the mass closure of the FAPs, to the mass closure of hospitals, what they're now inventing with the hospital districts doesn't find a person with normal psyche on his head. Because in my native Poltavishland, they want to make four areas of the hospital and the mass of the areas will run out of normal medical care. It's just a medical genocide, and all those who vote for it are contributing to it. I ask you to pay attention to who is voting for these so-called laws. The authorities vote and those who listen to counsellors from Washington or Brussels vote. But what I'm saying is that it's not all that good for a Ukrainian, which is good for an American, a German or a Frenchman. We are a great nation, let us stop demeaning ourselves, apeing Georgian reforms, then German, let the French live their minds. Most of all, I recently noticed that it unites. Strange people gathered for a medical reform, for a so-called pension reform, for land reform, are aspiring to the same people who are conducting gay parades in Kiev during the war. That is what unites them!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u139	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u140	Mikola Velitchovich, People's Front. Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u141	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I would like to turn to my colleagues, exchange fiery speeches to support reforms that involve not only health care but also education. And actually today we're going to have an expanded committee of education and science to consider the Ukrainian Education Act that we're preparing for the second reading. And actually, the concerns they're talking about today can be solved together with this document. That is why the consolidation of our Parliament and, of course, of Ukrainian society is essential. With regard to the results of the parliamentary hearings that have had the privilege of receiving most of us, it is clear that they must be supported, as well as the parliamentary hearings that have already taken place six months ago, and they have applied to the reform of education, the financing of education, the development of educational establishments, which our colleagues are also talking about. But I'd like to stop at another one. On the eve of an introductory campaign to Ukraine's higher education institutions, where only this year more than 64,000 foreign students are being trained, the left-wing component, and that is 25,000 students, these are foreign students from most countries of the world who are very supportive of us today. What I'm saying is that the top leader of Ukrainian medical institutions is, of course, Kharkiv Medical University, Karazin University, a huge number of capital universities, as well as Vinnicki, Zaporizki, Odessy, University of Bogolotsa, Dnipropetrovski. I want to thank my colleagues at the National University of the Black Sea, Peter Mogila, who a year ago discovered a cure and were able to make a 3D operating table, which is now one of the best analogues and prototypes of the world's most famous brands. And the third thing I'd like to stop my attention about. There's been a criticism of the excessive passing point, regarding the low level of material and technical provision of Ukrainian medical facilities, as well as the low level of encouragement and willingness of Ukrainian students to work in educational institutions. So tell me, would you please tell me that today we're being prevented from starting the Ukrainian medical reforms? What prevents us from increasing funding for medical education? Who forbids us to raise our wages to Ukrainian doctors? I ask to move from populism to support and support the results of parliamentary hearings on medical education in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u142	The next is Pavel's Constantine Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u143	Please give the floor to National Deputy Shurmi Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u144	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I'll give you some very sad statistics. Over the past three months, 62 cases of botulism have been reported and recorded in Ukraine. Nine of them are mortal, people are dead. In the district of Sumskie, the child was bitten yesterday by an animal that died of leprosy. To what do I lead the analysis in terms of medical education? Sooner or later, someone will be held liable, and harshly speaking, he will go to prison for not having the right medication in our institutions and, more specifically, the sorghum. For those raw materials to be, people who have to make decisions and have the right to make decisions must have a basic education to do so. That's why medical universities, apart from the limited expertise, have to teach those who are called managers. And if, today, a temporary minister or his protégé had an elementary idea of what administration is and how to find a way out of the situation, they would not have told us that there is no legal basis for the purchase of serums today, since they do not have their registration. In reference to Ukrainian legislation, they suggested that the matter be considered at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. At this meeting, the Cabinet of Ministers defined this situation as an extraordinary and appropriate mandate given to the Ministry of Health to import the necessary cheeses one time. This procedure was once followed by Kvetashvili, who was a historian. You could see he doesn't know. Today, the minister’s temporary responsibilities have almost a higher education, four years of medical schooling, but she can handle it. Why doesn't she decide? Because she's into politics. She's saying that we're not going to buy cheese in Russia. By 2014, we had purchased it, treated it, and everything was fine. Not today. We buy coal, we buy gas, we buy timber, and we don’t buy raw materials that preserve health. You could have taken it to another manufacturer, from Canada. And we can't go there. Because there's a million aids for polio vaccines and it's all unused, it needs to be disposed of and, at our expense. The English will look at it, they won't give humanitarian aid. Under such circumstances, it is necessary to maintain a decision so that our universities can train not only professionals but health - care providers as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u145	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that we are approaching the conclusion of the discussion. And I want to report that in five minutes, there's going to be a vote in three or five minutes. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall to prepare for the decision. The next Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, gives the speech to Papiev. From the rostrum, please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u146	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It's a very important question. And we wanted to bring these questions into the agenda, not on Wednesdays, when there are no Ukrainian national deputies, but on Tuesdays or Thursdays. So there'll be a successful vote. Well, it's about the effectiveness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at all. See how logical things should be. The recommendations of the Parliamentary hearings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would make sense for it to approve before the law, the so-called Medical Reform Act of Ukraine. We have seen that last plenary week the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already considered, unconstitutionally voted on the so-called medical reform, because it was actually a violation of 49 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, and everyone knows that, including those who voted. I'm not talking about the fact that there were seven facts, and the video confirmed, the buttoning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 227 votes, seven were voted by button. And this must be on the conscience of those who have done these things, promising that it is this calling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will pass away from the disgraceful facts of the impersonal vote. But they did it all over again. Dear colleagues, let's think about it more globally. In its time, the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were written according to the Constitution, the President-Parliamentary Republic, when the Cabinet of Ministers became part of the executive branch, subordinated to and appointed by the President of Ukraine. And that's why the recommendations came out. Today we live in the Parliamentary-President Republic. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers is under control and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us, however, now, as we reform the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let us make some changes and details. Make recommendations have a different status. This is the road map that is required for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because as a person who worked in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I know where this document with the status of optional recommendations, where it is thrown away, and where it will be dumped in the Ministry of Health. In addition, we need the status of the Supreme Council ruling document so that it also has not a recommendational but a mandatory character for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and so that we can clearly implement both the 227th and the 228th forms of parliamentary control over the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We need to vote on this document. And I call for the second reading of the Law of Ukraine on the so-called pension reform, preferably so that it does not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u147	Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Now I'm going to give you a final word for the head of the committee. And I ask the heads of factions to maximize the number of special forces. Ola the Mantis. Mrs. Ola, are you out of your seat or from the rostrum? From the rostrum. Please. Please, 3 minutes, Oli the Mantis for the final word. And please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u148	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! In fact, there is no reform without changing the paradigm of education in any field. And through the resolution of parliamentary hearings, we are opening practically the way for Ukraine to European quality. When will this reform actually come to fruition, the foundation that we are trying to lay in the reform of health education? It won't work until 10 years later, because new doctors, new staff, have to start working and learn new treatment standards in a new format, in a new paradigm, only then can we get Ukrainian doctors of a different quality. So in order for Ukraine to be better in 5 and 10 years and 15 years from now, in order for Ukrainian citizens to receive better quality treatment, it is vital today to support the Road Map Regulation for Minoswita, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economics, how to move and develop health education. So I ask you by your vote to support this bill. I also want to point out that Parliament started medical reform as early as April. In April, a bill already in force by the President of Ukraine was voted and signed in 2002, which introduced the term "medical services". And no one is forbidding the Ministry of Health to finance medical services, but unfortunately, there are still no medical standards, no models of costing medical services, no guaranteed package developed or published, although the Cabinet of Ministers undertook to do so in the first half of 2017. In addition, what I want to point out is that the funds that the state has allocated for the purchase of drugs in November of the month went to foreign accounts, Ukrainian citizens received only 16 percent of the drugs, vaccines for only 4 percent of the need. Thus, the Ministry of Health, unfortunately, is unable to carry out the full - time work and the professional trials that have been put to them by Parliament today. So, as the 2002 bill works, which has already changed the pay paradigm, which allows for payment for medical services, no one in the autonomous medical institutions understands, and they have to start working in a new format from October to November this year. So from this rostrum, I'm going to a team of the Ministry of Health, the Cabinet of Ministers, and I'm going to ask them to immediately publish a model for the cost of medical services, a list of the guaranteed package, and eventually provide Ukrainian people with the drugs and vaccines they need. A statement by the minister of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u149	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u150	A statement of the executive responsibility of the minister of health regarding the absence of botulism vaccines based on the fact that it is not botulism. There is no infectious disease.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u151	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. Boys who are in bed and who support it take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the bill of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Education in Ukraine: A View to the Future (number 6467) as a Basis and Overall. As far as I know, all factions support. Let's consolidate, vote together and support the draft decision. Please vote, please support, on the basis and in general (6467). Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:33:09]] For-189 189. Let's wait, invite you to the hall and wait for the deputies. I see they fit. Invite the factions and the factions' heads, and whoever is, invite the deputies into the hall. I'll be right back. I'm asking you to show by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u152	Okay. Let's wait another minute. At that time, the head of the Committee of Ola the Mantis. I'm giving you a minute to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Ola the Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u153	Dear colleagues. I would like to point out my personal protest as the head of the Health Committee that all health - care laws, committee decisions and health - care reform and the introduction of compulsory health insurance are placed either on Wednesdays when there is no chance of being voted on or on days when laws do not stand a chance of passing through the end of the schedule. That's why he's the chairman. I'm now addressing the head of the Peter Prashenko faction, the head of the People's Front faction, the heads of all factions, we want to reform health care, or do we want to continue to mislead people. And I demand that a package of health - care laws, which are already prepared and prepared for second reading, be prepared not only for those who are standing today to be placed in those days when there is an MP in Parliament. For those who are not present, please do not tell us what is important for the reform of the health system and that you are concerned about the health of Ukrainian citizens. If you care only about words and not in the matter, it is totally inappropriate, thus, for your constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u154	Thank you. I'm trying not to comment, but I'm going to comment now, because cynicism has to be a limit. I want to inform you that the Head of the Committee, Ola the Mantis, came to me at lunch and asked me not to impose health protection laws until 12 o'clock, unless she stays in the hall during their consideration. And here, I very much ask, was honesty, it shouldn't be wickedness, and I didn't put them up for lunch, given that we had adopted laws that were very important, and moved them to 12:30, actually, because, Mrs. Ola, you weren't in the hall and you came to me and asked me not to put them until 12:00. Of course, and when we voted for children's rights -- a very important presidential law -- we had to be in the hall and vote before lunch, we made decisions and passed laws, but we had to be in the hall and we had to work. And I'm addressing you, Mrs. Ola, and you, too, need to be in the hall working with all the MPs. Thank you. Now, colleagues, I'm going to make a return offer. So, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. I propose to go back to the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Medical Education in Ukraine: A View to the Future (number 6467). Please, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Colleagues! Each voice is relevant, please come in and take up jobs. Now we're talking for a minute if there's no votes. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Decree 6467. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[13:37:38]] For 193 Let's talk for a minute. Please, from Peter Prashenko's Block, Spiowakovsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say that we should vote in favour of the decision that the relevant committee of profile has given us. I want to point out that these were very important debates that have gone through, but I just want to pay attention, well, first of all, to how we vote and, secondly, I want to pay attention to the nihilism that exists in relation to law enforcement. I refer to this, first of all, to the Ministry of Health, 150 points can't be placed. You know, there's a law that can't be changed in terms of acceptance after October 15, so that's the reaction. Please comply with Ukraine’s laws, and we are willing to vote because legal nihilism leads to these results. 150 points that you've made in terms of reception, after October 15th, this leads to the collapse of this system and to our attitude, to what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u156	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, this is a shame why there are no deputies in the room to vote on such important decisions. But I am addressing everyone who is now talking, especially here on the right, the fifth column, that they are here shouting shame, and I would like to remind them where their votes were for the changes to the Rules that we proposed with you, Andry Volodymyrovich, to do the committee work on Wednesday. Because now many deputies have gone to work to prepare important decisions on the committees. But I wouldn't laugh, Your Honor, I wouldn't laugh, because how to pour tears on the rostrum here, say that there is no right of opposition, and instead, you don't vote for, in the end, the beginning of reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I believe that this situation needs to be changed, that is unacceptable, and that we need to start reforming the Rules of our Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u158	Thank you. A radical party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u159	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to the Ukrainians right now. Dear Ukrainians, look at the Radical Party team, in full stock of Parliament Halls and so on every day. Why? Because we feel responsible for the people who elected us to Parliament. Because each and every one of you is cutting off his work allowance to pay his deputies a salary. And deputies are obliged to work on a plenary day in the Supreme Council. I'm talking to the Ukrainians, take an example from the Radical Party team: responsible, serious, patriotic, strong team, as "iron" discipline as in my party, the same "iron" discipline we're going to bring to the whole country. We'll stop the chaos, we'll stop the mess, we'll stop the irresponsibility, everyone will work, every Ukrainian will have a job and a salary, and the number of members of the Supreme Council will be reduced to 200.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u160	Opposition Block, Dudenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Now they're saying that they can't accept such a fine bill in this session room is really true. But they're saying that there's no coalition, so where's the coalition? Where is the coalition today, and how many deputies are now in the coalition? As an opposition faction, we are voting for these bills, but it is frightening to do something else, and we are calling for reforms of the Supreme Council to be reformed, not as opposed to a lunch break, but rather to be reformed in proportion to the size of the bills passed by the respective factions, in accordance with the number of deputies. Reform should be spoken of when committees in the Supreme Council are distributed, when, in fact, the opposition faction has been removed from the process in general, and now you are talking about reform. As far as the point is concerned, we, as the faction of the Opposition Block, call for support for the bill, but it's a pity when we voted several times for funding the anti-constitutional medical bill and pushed the bill forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u162	Thank you. From Self-Help, Semimenach, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! I think that any reform of Parliament should begin with the fulfillment of our own promises that we all made to the Ukrainian people without exception, and first of all with the new law, the electoral law on open party lists with regional districts. This will be a real parliamentary reform. The other one. Where is the removal of parliamentary immunity from all deputies without exception? Would that not be a real parliamentary reform? Next. Why aren't we bringing the CMC update to the session room? This is not the beginning of a real parliamentary reform, for these reforms really will ensure the arrival of new people in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-21-m0.u164	Thank you. So we exchanged thoughts. My colleagues, I want to let you know, I'm going to put you back on the vote. But then we have two important health laws that I believe we cannot risk. It's a second reading and we won't be able to just look at it. Now I'm going to put the votes back on, if there's no votes to go back, I'm going to have to rule out. But I'm going to remind you that you can bring it in again, and at this we're just going to close the morning session. I ask you to mobilize and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation No. 6467. Please vote, I'll wait 30 seconds until they come along, please. So please support the return to the draft decision. Please vote. Vote. [[13:44:46]] For a hundred and The draft decision is rejected. Colleagues, and since we will no longer have time to consider the following bills, in less than 15 minutes our time set by the Rules ends, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares closed. I wish you a fruitful committee job. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work.
