ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare to attend the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Fellows, I'd like to inform you while the MPs say that the table in the draft Cultural Fund Act is still being printed, minutes 10-15. As soon as she shows up, the table, in the hall, we'll put it right up. It's about a cultural fund. We had a fourth, but we couldn't put it in because there were no tables yet. As soon as the tables are given out in the hall, we'll go over there. Now we have the next project in the order of the day, 2302a (deputy), colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was taken off by the committee. It was written down by the committee. The committee made a written request for his removal. And so, colleagues. And so, colleagues, I'm asking you to work very intensively right now. I ask you to work very intensively so that we can go through the issues that lie next, they are important. I know a lot of people are waiting for the Southman, and so I'm asking you to get ready for the registration right now and sign up for the evening meeting, colleagues. Please take your places of employment, and I ask the National Deputies to register for the evening session. Please register. [[16:05:33]] 358 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So our next law, according to the daily rules, is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase corporate governance in equity companies, No.2302a (deputy). I remind you, we continue the block of second reading. This second reading bill does not need to change the procedure. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Welcome to Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! For your consideration, Bill 2302a (worked) is presented in a second reading. On February 22, 17th, the Economic Policy Committee at its meeting reviewed the bill. It received 120 amendments, most of which were included in the second reading. This bill amends legislation that regulates the management of shareholders. The bill is aimed at improving the efficiency of corporate governance, namely by introducing a mechanism to improve the acquisition of private shareholding shares as a result of the acquisition of a controlling shareholding package, by introducing a mechanism to acquire public shareholding shares as a result of a purchased controlling and significant controlling shareholding package, and by implementing a mechanism to acquire shares that are owned by more than 95 per cent of the shares of the company and by shareholders that have less than 95 per cent of the shares in the company, they also receive a mechanism to sell their shares. Dear friends! This bill is designed to bring about compliance with the European standards of Ukrainian legislation governing corporate governance. So I'm very much asking you to support this bill in a second reading and in general, in an editorial proposed by the committee, taking into account technical legal rights. Because the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has made its recommendations, which we will take into account in the drafting of the bill to be signed by the Head of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u3	Thank you for the thorough report, Andry Volodymyrovich. I ask the amendment authors to prepare for work now. Please, colleagues, I'm going to call the amendments rejected. 1st, Chizmar. Don't insist. Two o'clock, Ostrikova. He insists. Please, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! Indeed, we are considering a very important bill that will help us to integrate the activities of stockholders, in which the actual control package of shares is concentrated in the hands of either one person or a group of people who are bound by certain relationships and who are engaged in concerted action. Therefore, it is vital that we vote on it today. Nevertheless, after the amendments have been made, all the amendments will be considered. As for the second amendment. Now, I have a question to ask to the last sentence: "The bank has no right to impose a burden ban, but they can set a reasonable reward." Remuneration for what? A customer's rights limit? So there are some technical differences here, the content of the amendment was to correct the technical inconsistencies of this standard. So, Mr. Head, please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u5	Is there a need? Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u6	Well, we need it, we need to put it. But I would like to comment. We rejected on the Committee the amendment of the Ostrikov People’s Deputy in view of the fact that the proposed edition was agreed by the working group with the participation of both the National Bank of Ukraine and the largest banks of Ukraine, the Association of Banks of Ukraine, and the national deputies. That's why we counted the text in the right column. I think it's a consensus and a compromise of the norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u7	Do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 2 of the People's Chamber of Ostrikov. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:11:01]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 3rd, Ostrikova. Does it insist on 3 amendments? Don't insist. Four o'clock, Ostrikova. Don't insist. Which one? On the 5th. Please. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, about 5 amendments. It provides the burdener’s consent that it may be expressed in a general form or contain conditions under which such consent is deemed to be granted. However, the amendment, more precisely the proposed standard, does not provide for a period during which the burdener must agree to carry out certain transactions at the expense of the account. And that could lead to abuse, as it were, of the burdener's procedural rights, he might simply disagree. And that's why it's actually suggested that in what time frame he's going to give his consent to do transactions on account. In the event of a bank’s failure to agree or refuse a given term, the burden bearer is considered to have given a so - called silent agreement on the cancellation of funds. Therefore, I would like to ask her for confirmation and support in order to prevent the abuse of the procedural rights of the burden bearers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u9	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Dear Mrs. Ostrikova, we thank you very much for the amendments you made to the second reading. And I would like to inform you that we are in a working group where representatives of the National Bank were present, all the large banks of Ukraine, associations, national MPs, I personally assure you, we are very grateful and very attentive to your amendments, but we have taken them into account in the working group in order to have them in the text of the law. And that's what it says in the table, that the first amendment was rejected, that's not true. We took it into account in the working group. And in the right column, when you look at the text of the bill, which we recommend to Parliament to accept, very many of your comments are taken into account and we really did approach objectively. You're sorry we didn't count the amendment, well, the whole body, but we carried it to the right column as a result of agreed consultations in the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u11	Thank you. Do you accept the apology of Andrei Volodymyrovich? Do you insist on voting? Okay. Thus, the 5th amendment of the Ostrikov People’s Deputy is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. Please. [[16:14:03]] For-83 83-yes. The decision is not made. Next. 7th Amendment, Ostrikak. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, this amendment tells us that the bank account agreement is broken at any time at the client's request, but if this bank account agreement and the funds on it are burdened by the corresponding rights. the corresponding loads are the loader, there should be the agreement of such a loader over a period of time when the property rights of the funds held in the account are subject to a burden. Instead, the bill states that if the property rights of the funds held in the account are subject to burden and once again it is not determined within what period the burden is and these limits are in effect in the account operations. As for Mr. Ivanchuk's apologies. I accept them unreservedly, but for the future I ask Mr. Ivanchuk to invite me to work groups where my amendments are being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u13	What do you say, Andrew Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u14	I'd like to turn around. You know I'm always glad to see you. Oh, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u15	Roman's some kind of guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u16	As for the text of the proposed text, I would like to say that we wrote a different, not a "line," but "issued solely under the conditions of prior consent -- a prior consent! - and the letter for this change with the loader himself." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u17	Thank you. 7th Amendment. Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote amendment number seven of the Ostrikov People's Deputies. Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. Please. [[16:16:12]] For-83 The decision is not made. Eight o'clock, Ostrikova. Don't insist. 10th, Ostrikova. Don't insist. 17th, Ostrikova. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 24th, Bird. He insists. Please. Turn on the bird's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank all members of the Economic Policy Committee for their extremely constructive work on this bill, most of my amendments have been taken into account and I will not insist on voting for this amendment. I want to take this opportunity and call on all the national MPs to support this law because it will increase corporate governance in stockholder societies, it will enable us to overcome the negative consequences of privatization in the mid-1990s. It protects, on the one hand, the majority rights, on the other hand, are completely balanced and protects the rights of the minority, who are being removed from the possibility of managing society today, are not receiving dividends, and at the same time cannot receive an adequate price for their shares. Let's all get together and support this law. I don't insist on correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u19	Okay. Thank you. 31st, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Next up is Ostrika, 38th. Don't insist. 46th, Ostrikova. Don't insist. Okay. 47th, Semenha. He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u20	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! I want to thank the authors' team, and the government's representatives for a very important bill that regulates corporate governance, as well as significantly protects, raises the level of protection of the minority. My job is to specify who is the owner of the dominant stock. This question is important in the context of the fact that it is the acquisition of a dominant package that is the point of reference to the application of the compulsory redemption procedure and the mandatory sale of shares. The bill now proposes 90 percent. 95 percent of shares, but the EU Directive clearly points to 90 percent, although there are indeed countries in Europe where 95 are applied. It's very simple to explain, the essence of the procedure with the queeze-out and sell-out in the purchase of shares of those shareholders who own so small a percentage of shares that doesn't really give them the ability to influence management decisions in the company. For example, only a shareholder who owns more than 10 percent of the company’s shares may require an audit. So I suggest you support number 47 and secure the dominant stock control packet just in size.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u21	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u22	So I suggest that the law itself proposes to secure 90 percent of what it will require. which would be in line with the EU Directive, not 95 per cent, as proposed by the authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u23	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u24	Dear People's Deputies of Semimenach, we also thank you very much for the number of amendments that have been taken into account, and clearly the bill with your help has become better. But I would like to inform the author of the amendment and all the national MPs that Directive 2004/25 of the European Union on proposals for absorption provides for the possibility of applying a package of up to 95 per cent. Up to 95 percent. And this is a figure, 95 percent, the most common practice in the world, so we took it as a base. I don't think 90 or 95 percent is principled, but we wanted to show that there are still 90 percent of minority shareholders left. And there were questions, and there were discussions in the working group, and we took the 95 as the most common norm in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u25	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote amendment number 47 of the People's Deputies of Semimenha. The committee rejected her. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:20:57]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I would like to make a request to you, Mrs. Ostrikova, that your amendments are usually still. My colleagues, I want to let you know, everyone sees the agenda, there are a number of important issues that await their consideration, let me just look at what you insist on. So, Mrs. Tetjano, please tell me what kind of amendments you're insisting that we don't waste and I don't leave all these piles of paper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Head! I'm going to take this moment to really thank the head and board members for the valuable papers, the government that's taking steps to normalize the situation that actually the minority people get nothing and own some very, very small percentage of shares in the stockholder company. And I would also like to thank Mr. Ivanchukov separately, whose efforts led by the working group to defend the rights of the minority and, indeed, to prescribe such cautionaries as will without reservation allow the minorities not to lose their shares without guaranteeing the availability of funds in the escrow accounts and that they will be beneficiaries of these accounts. So thank you all. And, colleagues, I urge you to support this twofold bill for the corporate sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, this is how we concluded the discussion. We're moving on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking all the factions to invite members of the House, the Supreme Council Secretariat, to invite deputies to the decision-making room. Andrew Volodymyrovich, is there yet a burning word to be said before the vote? Please, one minute, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u28	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I thank all the factions and groups that were involved in the drafting of this bill. I also thank the representatives of the commission that was our joint work, and I think that for this bill, the business community will say thank you. I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u29	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking you to take your jobs and get ready for the vote. And I'm betting on the vote. Please, colleagues, in the hall. draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase corporate governance in stockholder societies (number 2302a), a parliamentary committee on second reading and as a whole. All the speakers supported, the government supports and asks. And I ask you to support and vote 2302a, MP, second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:24:11]] For 260 [[Applause]] The law is passed. Dear colleagues, this is an important step for reform. Colleagues, there's a cultural fund on their hands. Whether we have a second bill, or Ivanchuka, and then a cultural fund. Is that right? Yes! [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a little line. So here's another bill, while Ivanchuk is in the rostrum, and then the cultural fund, they're giving out the papers. So let's move on to the next draft of the Order of the Day Act (4470) is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on corporate contracts. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Andrew Volodymyrovich, say the word of truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! Bill number 4470 is proposed for your consideration. We call it "the corporate contracts" among ourselves. It's a very revolutionary bill, and we are really implementing a world practice in Ukraine that has never existed before and that has prompted the Ukrainian business to form its corporate relations abroad where they had this opportunity to make corporate contracts. For over a year, we discussed the matter. And as for me, and the representatives of the commission, the national MPs who were involved in the working group, we got a very nice, very good document. At our February 22nd meeting, the Economic Policy Committee decided unanimously to recommend to Parliament that it accept the Committee's proposed editorial in the second reading and in general. There have been 52 amendments to the bill by the people's deputies, and almost all have been taken into account editorially, in part or in full, and we thank everyone very much for this fruitful work. What does that mean? We introduce concepts, we make changes to the Civil Code, and we introduce the concept of a treaty that will be aimed at the realization of rights between shareholders and members of society. This is a world practice that has rejected us in the past, because we did not have the legal capacity for shareholders and participants to agree on something, and in legislative changes, we put these standards at risk so that shareholders and members of society can decide for themselves how to live, how to work, how to develop this business. I thank you all very much for supporting this bill. Let's take a walk, Mr. Head, as amended. And in the closing word, I'm going to do a little edit right of Mineconomy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u31	It's a deal. I'm asking the heads of the right, but for us to go through intensively, I'm going to count it. So, four-a, dove. Don't insist. 7th, Dove. Don't insist. 11th, Ostrikova. He insists. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u32	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, 11 Ostrichov's amendment speaks of a non-relationship under an optional contract and is marked in the table that it is rejected. Instead, in the right column of the table is the text of article 658 prime. It's a civil code called "The Breakdown of a Single-Sales Contract." But what I'm going to say is that the amendment itself and the article to which the amendment was made have the number 1143 with the mark 1 and it's called the "opportunity agreement." And if you look at it, it's actually going to have to be taken into account, not rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u33	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u34	Absolutely right, Mrs. Ostrikak, we are indeed your amendment -- it is heard and accounted for. But it was these issues of making an optional agreement that we had to take into account in another way in the bill. And that's why her name was rejected in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u35	Do you insist on voting, Mrs. Tetian? No, it doesn't. Let's move on, fellows. 13th, Semenha. 13-a, yes. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u36	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, my bill 13 proposes to supplement the bill with the rule that a corporate agreement can be strictly free. This means that a member of the association will not have the right to receive money or other rewards from another member of the association, where he has agreed to be a party to a corporate contract. Consolidating the requirement of free corporate contract is aimed at preventing the actual sale of one’s votes to another. Thus, accounting will reduce the risk of using a corporate contract as a tool for conspiring individual groups against others to take control of one group of societies. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u37	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u38	Thank you, too, Mr. People's Deputy of Semimenach, for your corrections and for what has really been taken into account. But the working group and the committee on 13 amendments, we think that the paper doesn't meet the requirements of legal technology and in practice can carry a double interpretation. That's why we turned her down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u39	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the 13th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[16:30:10]] For-93 93-yes. The decision is not made. 16th, Semenha. Don't insist. 19th. Are you insisting? Tell me, are you going to insist on everyone? And you're going to insist on everyone, right? Seven o'clock, right? Please, okay. 16th. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u40	Regulation 16 is based on European, particularly German, corporate contract regulation standards. The amendment is aimed at implementing the Ukrainian legislation of the European concepts of loyalty of members of society, according to which participants are obliged to take into account the interests of society and other members of society when exercising their rights. This is why it is suggested that the draft law should include a rule that clearly defines that members of the association should act exclusively in the interests of the entire society when they enter into a corporate agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u41	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Head, here are a few such amendments to a certain content. I'll comment first, and then I won't comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u43	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u44	Our logic was for a corporate agreement to regulate only the rights and interests of the participants, not society, so we didn't. I know that there is such a practice in Germany, but we've left, and we've decided in principle that a corporate agreement is only for participants and only for shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u45	Do they insist on voting? No, it doesn't. If possible, the following amendments are more concise because I understand they are resounding. 19th, Ostrikova. He insists, doesn't he? Please, 19th Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment that deals with an important issue. In the event that a party to a corporate contract in breach of such a contract is entered into, I propose that in the amendment it be determined that it may be declared invalid by a court for the prosecution of an interested party to a corporate contract. Instead, a number of restrictions are defined in the draft legislation. For example, it has been pointed out that such a lawsuit can only be filed and satisfied if it is proved that the other party knew or should have known about the restrictions provided for in the corporate contract, which in fact precludes an accusation of contracts that may be made by the parties to a corporate contract for breach of such a contract. Please support and submit for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u47	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 19 of the People's Deputies of Ostrikov. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:33:01]] For 124 The decision is not made. The 20th, Semenha. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u48	A corporate agreement will only be required in practice when effective safeguards are put in place by law to ensure that it is properly implemented. For the reasons stated above, we cannot agree that the breach of a corporate agreement by one party and the voting in general congregations contrary to the commitments made are insufficient grounds for declaring such a decision to be invalid in the general congregation. Therefore, in my right hand, I propose to determine the exclusive conditions under which a court order may be declared invalid, a decision taken by the general congregation, as a result of a breach of one of the parties’ obligations under a corporate contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u49	Andrew Volodymyrovich has already commented on this amendment. And I'm putting her to a vote. The 20th Amendment of Semenha. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[16:34:08]] For the 180. The decision is not made. 21st, Ostrikak. Don't insist. 25th, Semenha. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u50	The bill provides for the possibility of making a corporate agreement with one or more participants in the association with the creditor of this association. While not denying the admissibility of such agreements, it should be emphasized that the possibility of entering into corporate agreements with third parties requires asymmetric rules aimed at protecting against potential abuses both the interests of the association itself and the interests of those parties who are not parties to such a corporate contract. I therefore suggest that 25 be expanded to the extent that the parties that are not parties to corporate contracts with the creditor should receive from the authorized party to the corporate contract, namely: the data on the creditor, the content of the contract, including the content of the creditor's interest in securing the contract, and the duration of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u51	The committee head has already made this amendment. And I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment No.25, Semimenah. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please. [[16:35:34]] For 101 The decision is not taken. 26th, Semenha doesn't insist. 27th? I insist, 27th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u52	Complicity in a corporate agreement with a creditor of this association may potentially have negative consequences for both the association and its participants. In fact, the creditor is legally able to influence the key decisions of such a society on the basis of a corporate contract. Therefore, the right is intended to protect the interests of the parties to the association in making a corporate agreement with the creditor. The amendment provides for the completion of the bill by a standard according to which a corporate agreement may be declared invalid by a court for the solicitor of a society that is collectively owned by 10 percent or more of the statutory capital. It's the same thing that we talked about in the previous bill about actually securing minority rights. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u53	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 26, author of Semimenach. The committee's dismissed. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. That's 27 revisions, yeah. Whoever supports it, the 27th Amendment, please vote. [[16:36:44]] Z-87 27 revision not supported. Twenty-eight, no insistence. 29th, not necessarily. 35th, not necessarily. 37th, not necessarily. 39th, not necessarily. Which one are you insisting on? 45th. 45th, turn on the microphone, Deputy Semimenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u54	Semenha Roman. The value of any agreement is in its proper and complete implementation. This statement is also fully relevant to the corporate contract. But the bills proposed to guarantee the proper implementation of the corporate contract in the form of compensation by a breach of the contract are clearly insufficient. Therefore, the law suggests that if a shareholding agreement is breached, the party to a contract be required to purchase or dispose of the corresponding shares at a predetermined price. Or in the event of a contractual situation, another interested party to a contract may file a lawsuit against the court for the enforcement of an obligation in kind and oblige the offender to purchase or, accordingly, sell shares, as provided for by the shareholding agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u55	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 45, Deputy Semimenach, rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:38:14]] For-93 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'll give it to you. In two minutes, there will be a vote, and I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the decision. By the 34th Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at least 10 years ago, the legal community discussed the need for the institution of corporate contracts, both in shareholders and in limited liability societies. We realize that the state should not dictate to businesses and shareholders or to associates, how they live in their own companies, and how they can regulate their relationship. So now we have a unique opportunity with you to finally establish a corporate contract institution, to return a lot of agreements from abroad, and to settle corporate contracts not under English law, not under the right of any other foreign country, but under Ukrainian legislation. So I don't insist on this amendment, but I'm asking everyone to support our bill because it's a real reform of corporate legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u57	Olena Schrum, please. Turn on the microphone, Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u58	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, I was going to put Amendments 47 and 52 on confirmation, but now I'm only talking about 47, and then I'm going to shoot the 52nd. My colleagues, I actually have a few warnings exactly about changes in the management of public property objects, but despite that, I think the bill is fairly balanced, and I think it's quite right. And just to explain a little bit, it's not that, you know, it's a cool interesting topic for Ukrainians, but it's very important for business, it's very important for us to put in place normal foreign practices here when corporate contracts are made when they're public, when they're open and they're made for our legislation, and not as 99 percent now, maybe they're made by the legislation of Cyprus, Great Britain and other countries. So I think poison is a positive bill, it's a work in progress, and it's really a question of how to make corporate contracts, if 25 percent belongs to the state. But I think we should start this practice and watch it go. Please support everyone, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u59	Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. So, colleagues, the last one right now, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm saying there's going to be a last amendment. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. 52nd Semenich or Sidorovich? Sidorovich 52 edits, please turn on the microphone. Last draft, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your attention for a moment now, because the Self-Help faction supported this bill in the first reading with a clear warning that the scope of this law will not be distributed to enterprises where the state owns directly or indirectly 25 percent. In this regard, instead of an amendment 52, we propose that the draft text should be followed up by an amendment that can be read out by the chairman of the committee, which is agreed with the committee, and with the National Committee on Stock Market Securities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u61	Read it, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u62	And 52th, please place it properly for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u63	Please, the amendment's author is Solovay. One minute, please, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, this is my amendment. I want to say that this is actually a very progressive law that regulates many relationships in corporate law. But what I want to do is I want to go to my self-help colleagues, because I remember, literally, a year ago, we were taking joint steps to de-independence on state-owned enterprises through the mechanism for setting up supervisory councils. And actually my amendment was to further strengthen the mandate of supervisory boards to agree to such corporate agreements. Because it is not possible to use one hand to make the board of directors independent, but another hand to take the authority of the supervisory boards to agree on these corporate agreements. But, as I understand it, there is a balanced agreed position of the Self-Help faction with the committee that the committee head will now announce, so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u65	Declare a balanced position, Andriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u66	Dear Sir, honourable national deputies, we have concluded our discussion of the amendments. And I want to read the following under the transcript. In line 70 instead of the second paragraph, it is recommended that the following text be inserted: "The order and conditions for the conclusion of corporate contracts, in which one party is a State, an economic society in which a State is 100 per cent and (or) a legal person in which in a State or such an economic society, directly or indirectly, more than 25 per cent of statutory capital is determined by a separate law." Thank you. And I would also like to tell you, Mr. Head, that the Chief Legal Authority has given us proposals, legal rights, technical remedies and preparation for your signature. We will also consider the conclusion of the Supreme Council’s legal administration. Thank you. Please, honourable national MPs, support a very progressive and revolutionary bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u67	Andrew Volodymyrovich, is there only one question: Sidorovich still insists on confirming 52nd? It's on the receipt, isn't it? So I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 52. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:44:56]] For 118 The decision is not made. And we're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote with that amendment that Ivanchuk said under the transcript, and he's going to make it clear, and so I'm going to put it to the vote. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u68	Dear friends, dear Mr. Head! In the amendment, I read out the phrase "the state owes more than 25 percent" -- yes. It's suggested that it's not 25 percent plus one share, it's 25 percent doing the right thing. So I'm going to correct the text of the law, and I'm going to write 25 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u69	Roger that. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on corporate contracts (number 4470) in the second reading and in general with the amendment that was made under the transcript by Andri Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support 4,470 in second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote, vote. [[16:46:33]] For 279 279 – yes. You've united a hall, a law accepted, a colleague. And now, finally, we're going to the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (number 5491). Everyone, please work dynamically and please. Now it's also a second reading, there's no other procedure, I'm just asking you to work very hard. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Prince Nikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! At its meeting on March 22, 2017, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considered the draft Law on the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (register No. 5491) adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 9, 2017. The committee was attended by representatives of the public, experts and representatives of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. 97 amendments to the bill were tabled by Ukrainian national deputies, of which 63 were rejected, 6 were taken into account on an editorial basis, and 28 were taken into account. With regard to the rejected amendments. Most of the amendments – amendments by the people's deputies Silantiev, Ribczynski – are aimed at extending the Fund's activities to the entire humanitarian sphere, including youth policy, physical culture, sport, etc. At the same time, this position does not match the title of the bill itself. National deputies, members of the committee, do not object to the need for additional funds and other humanitarian areas other than culture, believe that such a fund will not be able to function and finance properly at this stage. However, they support the idea of expanding the scope of the Fund’s activities in the future if it works effectively. Colleagues, what are we talking about? You know, we've had a lot of talk about, for example, that in Britain, there seems to be a Humanitarian Development Fund that's funded by lotteries. It's not like that. In Britain, really, there's a so-called Big Lottery Fund, which is funded by lotteries, but its costs are spent on health, education and environmental protection. Similarly, the National Heritage Fund in Britain, which is funded by the lottery, exists in Art Council England, is a cultural fund that is offered to be accepted now, which is also financed by lottery and other arrivals. There are also separate funds, such as Sport England, which supports sports, Innovation UK, which supports innovation, Economic and Social Research Council, which supports scientific research. So there's a whole bunch of funds in Britain just like in any other European country that we're trying to implement. But in this case, we're only talking about a fund that has to support Ukrainian culture. There have been other amendments, such as that of the Briginian People’s Deputy, which have supplemented the text with new rules that do not conform to the Rules and regulate the issues that should be addressed in the regulations. This is due to the fact that the first reading did not contain certain provisions for the amendment of the Brigin, contrary to the Rules, to extend the points that were to be found in the first reading, so they were rejected. With this in mind, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on second reading and in general. And entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, with its technical and legal work to meet the requirements of legal engineering and rule of law, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u71	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u72	For example, there is little refinement because the numbering of articles has changed. In article 16, "Final and transitional positions" in the first part of the word "Article 16" should be changed to "Article 15. " These are the technical details we would need to make. Thank you, Mr. Co-author, for finding this along with another Mrs. Singer. So I would like you to support this bill in formulating the committee that I gave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, almost all the adjustments are taken into account. Who insists? Ribczynski, tell us what the correction is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u74	I'm not going to talk about the amendments right now, I'm talking about the law as a whole. In fact, this law privatizes the culture of Ukraine. And what happens is that the functions of the cultural foundation and the Ministry of Culture are duplicated. The Council of the Ministry of Culture will be appointed and the public will not participate. I would not recommend that the room vote for privatization. The bank can privatise everything away and the culture can never! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u75	You don't insist on voting, do you? Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u76	As I said before, Rybczynski and Silantiev's colleagues have made a number of amendments that have only expanded the Fund's activities to both sport and other fields, which are very important for the development of our society. And no one will prevent you from accepting and making appropriate funds to support these areas. As for the so-called privatization, obviously I don't agree with my colleague Ribczynski, because the public will be offering, and on the basis of these public proposals that will be made through the Internet, openly, the Ministry of Culture will choose those who will be recommended by the public for appointment to the foundation board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u77	Thank you. Who else insists on repairs? Condrat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, in unmistakably supporting this bill, I would still like to focus on my amendment number 82, which relates to the size of the funding of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund from the State Budget of Ukraine. And it will, in particular, sound this way at my suggestion that "the size of funding of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund from the State Budget is determined annually by the State Budget Act of Ukraine in a single line and cannot be more than three times as much as the cost of State support for cinematography and bookkeeping provided for in the State Budget of Ukraine. So in order for us to understand that for a cultural fund, for a cultural fund, there's going to be a certain amount from the state budget, it doesn't have to exceed three times the amount that has to be spent on book publishing and cinematography in Ukraine. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u79	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u80	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u81	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 82 people's deputies, Condratiuk, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:53:33]] For 104 The decision is not taken. No more pressure on repairs, colleagues. And we're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. I ask the heads of factions to organize deputies for the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite deputies. And I give the floor to the Minister of Culture, Eugene Nietschuk. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u82	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Mr. Mikola, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, I was saying today that when we adopted the Film Act, there could be a cultural quarter today. This is important to us. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this law is unifying to all factions and to all Ukraine. Because it's to a certain extent deregulation, or the elimination of those inherent functions that have taken on a long time, beginning with the inheritance of the Soviet Ministry of Culture. Officials cannot determine in different directions what projects are to be supported. It's supposed to be an expert environment, it's supposed to be done by experts. And we're actually giving our hand to an expert art environment. And I would call upon our distinguished friends, the honourable deputies of Silantiev, Fishchinsky, who have great experience, and I think we will find in the process of functioning this fund a moment of touch and understanding that we will be able to support your projects as well. In fact, there's a whole bunch of things that will give this opportunity. I totally understand the need to support sport in the whole humanitarian sphere, but we really want to focus and focus on culture. Now there are experts from the European Commission who define indicators of cultural influence in society at all. And there's the fundamentals that are -- the impact of culture on life expectancy, on the mood in the country. Add positiveness and mood in the country, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act (No. 5491) for a second-reading committee, and in general, a colleague. All factions supported, the government supported, the committee supported. And I ask you to vote and support 5491 in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:56:44]] For 236 236 – a.k.a. The law is passed. Colleagues, this is an important step. And, Mr. Mikola, welcome. Let's go to the last draft from the block of second reading. This is a draft of the Law on the Simplification of Capitalization and Restructuring of Banks (No. 6010). And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Douben Mikhail Volodymirovich. Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u84	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, as a result of the National Bank's so-called program of clearing the banking system, we have received in the state a number of negative trends and negative results, and among them, first of all, this is a serious increase in the monopoly of the state's role in the banking market. In particular, 52 percent of the assets now controlled by the State, 60 percent of the deposits of individuals, and 74 percent of the active payment cards served in public banks, are also confirmation of the role of the State in the banking market. What I'm saying is that, along with increasing monopolistic influence, we have a whole range of negatives, including the growth of bank failure in the banking market, including in 2016 169 billion, of which 135 billion are Privatbank. We also have another very negative trend that we see in the market today is the distortion of objective market values, which also has a negative impact on the situation in the banking system. What I'm saying is that today 92 banks are working on a market in our country. Of these, 61 are banks with national Ukrainian capital. To date, those requirements that our mega-regulator has imposed by July 11, 2017, our banks need to increase statutory capital to 200 million. Out of 61 banks with national Ukrainian capital, 37 banks need to raise their capital. To enable them to survive under these difficult market conditions today, Bill 6010 is proposed. What I'm saying is that as a result of the work of all those involved -- MPs, experts and so forth -- we've had a 92-seat committee review. Of these, 75 are accepted. I mean, that's what I'm saying. The bill is temporary, he is. His actions extend for three years. Now I suggest, Mr. Head, we move to the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the amendments. And I suggest we work very quickly. 3rd Amendment, Lavrica. Don't insist. Five o'clock, walking. Don't insist. 10th, I was walking. Don't insist. Now, fellows, let's move on. 15th, Lavrick. Don't insist. Rizanenko, 19th. Don't insist. Thank you. Walking, '30s. Don't insist. 31st, Walking. Don't insist. 33rd, Rizanenko. Paul Rizanenko, 33rd? Don't insist. Thank you. 39th, Rizanenko. Don't insist. 42nd, Yvchenka. Don't insist. 44th, Lavrick. Don't insist. 45th, Yvchenka. Don't insist. 47th, Rizanenko. Don't insist. Okay. 57th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. One more time, please. You want confirmation, don't you? You're betting on the 55th amendment? 55th? The other one. 52nd row. Dear colleagues! So the 52nd amendment, this is Rizanenka's amendment, it was counted, but the Macedonian People's Deputy puts it on the stand. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone, please. And then we'll give it to the author. We'll give you the noodle. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, I suggest you leave the first reading, because the 52nd amendment provides for agreement with the owner of the subordinated debt, which reduces the possibility that the banks who stop are civilized to exit the market and reclassify to the financial institution. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u87	Please ask the author of the amendment, which was counted by the committee, to give to the national deputy Rizanenko. No, I'm asking the reporter to give his word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u88	Dear colleagues! We had the opportunity to discuss this subject seriously enough. We're saying that a whole bunch of professional, fairly reasoned arguments have been used. And we made a unanimous decision on the committee to support Rizanenko's proposal. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support Amendment 52 of the Rizana. It's counted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u89	Colleagues, I'm asking you to focus now. Attention! I ask everyone to return to the workplace and vote on the amendment on which the committee insists on confirmation. To vote in favour of the 52th National MP Rizanenka, who is considered by the Committee, and whose confirmation is urged by the National MP. Please, I'm asking you to vote in favour. The committee's position is "for." Vote. [[17:04:13]] For 148 I didn't type this. Let's move on, dear fellows. 57th, Ivchenko doesn't insist. 58th, Lavrick doesn't insist. I'm sorry. 55th. I just didn't pay attention. I'm sorry. 55th, this is the People's Deputy's Amendment, the Rizanenko People's Deputy's Amendment. It was counted by the committee, but the Macedonian National MP insists that it be submitted for confirmation. Please, the microphone of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! I propose to leave the first reading as this amendment proposes to transfer the assets and liabilities of the end banks to the designated bank. However, the principle of a designated bank is not clear and clearly defined. Moreover, there is already a procedure in the Civil Code for counting unspent funds into the deposit account of the notary office. So I'm going to ask you to apply this for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u91	The committee insists that amendment 55, which was taken into account in the committee's consideration of the bill, is the amendment of the national MP Rizanenka, be confirmed. Colleagues, I ask you to come back to work, hear the committee's position here and vote. Edit number 55 for confirmation. Za, please. [[17:05:52]] For-146 146 National MPs. This amendment does not go through. Let's move on. I ask you to listen carefully. What's that? 6th. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not your job. 56 amendment for confirmation. This is the amendment of the People’s Deputy Doubenko (it was counted by the Committee) and the Fisherman. This is the amendment of the national deputies of Doubenko and the Fisherman. She was taken into account by the committee, but the national deputy Ivchenko asked for confirmation. Please, Ivchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u92	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear reporter, I'd like to understand, and I'd like to place the application for confirmation. When the termination plan takes place, another 5 working days are given to cancel the bank’s license. We can view this as some kind of corruption, when a bank has a bank license, it's going to pay someone back. And we had these examples. 82 banks lost funds or counted into other bank accounts during the night. To our great conviction, it is quite a long time. After a plan to stop for one day, you can leave your licenses, and then you can continue to reorganize the bank. I think the term is a little out of date, so I'd like to put this check in for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u93	Colleagues, please focus. The 56 amendments supported by the committee call for confirmation by Deputy Yvchenka. The committee's asking the board to vote in favour. Voting, please. [[17:07:53]] For 177
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u94	177 – a.k.a. The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'd like to make one request to you and, Mr. Yvchenko, and, Mrs. Ostrikova. Look, you see the order of the day, the rest of us have both the "Southern", and the 6099. Can I ask you to name those revisions, two Ostrikov revisions. 3's left, right? Yes. Two Ostrikovs. Please call.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u95	73, 85, please. 73 and 85.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u96	For confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u97	For confirmation. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u98	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, with my right, I have offered the exclusive, well, which is why the National Bank refuses to satisfy the problem solely in the case of: (a) identifying the signs of the bank being placed in the category of insolvent. Two. Failure or failure to implement the termination plan by the bank. And three. There is a lack of reliable information or non-compliance with the requirements and laws of Ukraine of the National Bank's legal and regulatory acts. It seems that when we have the exclusive powers of the National Bank to terminate or withdraw a license, it will not allow corruption to be possible for the National Bank when it takes away licenses or reorganizes banks. Let's make clear which ones might be satisfied with the National Bank's concern and rule out these powers. I offered these three points. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u99	What an adjustment you are. My colleagues, I'm going to count, and you're going to correct me. It's supposed to be 68th for confirmation, isn't it? 73rd. Yes. 85th. Yes. Three corrections, right? 75th. 68th, 73rd, 75th and 85th. Will You Comment? No, it's not. No, it's not. Please, Ostrikak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! Amendment 73 refers to a dual issue, it tells us what can be done to recapitalise the statutory capital of the bank with funds that have not been duly validated and to determine the legality of their origin, as determined by the National Bank of Ukraine. That's why we strongly insist that this bill be submitted for confirmation because it actually sets aside exceptions that would prevent the owners of a significant share of banks from confirming the origin of the funds and not know from which costs the banks would be recapitalized. We are willing to support this law exclusively if this amendment is rejected. It's now confirmed, we're asking you to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u101	73rd. Yeah? I'm betting on confirming the amendment. Author 1 minute, Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u102	National MP Rizanenko, author of the amendment. I would like to inform everyone who is present about the purpose of this law. This law is designed to enable 40 small Ukrainian banks to survive privately. This law provides for a simplified consolidation procedure for these banks, because by 1 July of this year they have to increase their capital to 200 million 120th, which they are required to do. Most of them have no money, and there are three ways: either to wind down, or to unite, and this law, one half of it is aimed at asking the merger procedure, or to complete the capital. And I want to remind you that big banks have been going through a process of completing capital under a simplified procedure, so on purpose in 2014, a law was passed that worked until January 1st of this year, and they're trying to apply tougher standards to small banks -- so this law proposes to apply the same standards to small banks that applied to large ones. So we're not going to discriminate against small banks compared to large ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u103	You're here to confirm it, right? So I'm betting on the confirmation of Amendment 83, the author of the Rizanenko amendment asks for support for this amendment 73, and the committee supports it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, confirm 73rd. Both the author and the committee are asking for her support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:12:54]] For 169 169 — yes. Not confirmed 68th, Demchak. Just bet on confirmation. Please, Demchac, 68.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u104	68 amendment, it's the same as 73 they go in the complex, and here it provides a significant list of the conditions for a bank conducting the capitalisation to get a simplified procedure. This poses significant risks and selectivity in the application of these laws to the forgiveness of capitalization. So please make an amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u105	I'm betting on the confirmation of amendment 68, but the author wants to say the word, Rizanenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u106	Similarly, this is designed to allow small banks to recapitulate. On the same terms as the big banks did. Yes, of course in this Supreme Council there are many owners of banks that have been used in a simplified procedure, some of them today even taking part in the collapse of these claims because they don't need competition. Draw conclusions and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u107	Thus, the author of Amendment 68 asks for her support and was supported by the committee. And I'm betting on confirmation of 68 amendments and a committee, and the author is asked to support it. Please vote, colleagues. 68 readjustment, for confirmation. [[17:14:30.]] For-174 174-yes. The decision is not made. 75 lashes, Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u108	I propose leaving the edition of the first reading of Regulation 75, which allows us not to go through the procedure of obtaining permission not only to valid shareholders, but also to other persons, to new participants, which poses risks to the transparency of the banking system. So I'd like to make a proposal for confirmation. So, colleagues, I'm putting 75 national MP Rizanenka on the stand for confirmation, and the author and committee are asking her to support her, colleagues. Please vote. To confirm the 75th amendment, the committee and the author are asked to support it. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:15:34]] For 169 The decision is not taken. And, Your Honor, we have the last eighty-five. So I now ask all the factions to invite deputies to the Hall, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, and I ask you to invite all the national MPs into the Hall, and I give the floor to 85 people's deputies Demchuku. Please. I refused, yes. So colleagues, discussions. 85th, yeah. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, you and I have already supported the drafting of the law that will determine the need to confirm the origin of the funds. This amendment, 85th, it's systematically linked to our position because it gives commercial banks the right to determine the origins of the funds and, in fact, it's a part of the function of the regulator. The National Bank of Ukraine does not support this amendment; these are the funds that the owners of the banks will recapitalize. I am definitely not the owner of banks, and I always advocate fair competition in all areas of entrepreneurship. But the funds to be contributed to the statutory capitals of banks should have proof that they are legal and that the source of their origins has been verified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u110	So you're going to ask for confirmation to put the 85th. Do you have another offer or the same? 85 revisions, please, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u111	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the second reading edition allows the bank to stop if it stops and hands over its liabilities to investors or creditors. The project expands Nazbank's professional law of authorization to reorganize and capitalize banks. In doing so, these procedures are not open enough, and Nazbank will have a decisive influence on their course. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will not vote for this law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u112	And by Rizanenko. 85th Amendment, author of Rizanenko, and before the vote he has his position to explain. And then we move on to making a decision. Let's all go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u113	Once again, I wanted to say that the law was designed to save and enable the forty small banks to survive. With these changes that have been put in place to confirm the committee's version of support and have failed most, I'm sure they're about to fail another one. Out of all forty banks, four or six can survive, who actually have plans for a union, have received some kind of arrangement. All the same banks that planned to increase statutory capital under the same rules, which from 2014 to 1 January 2017, large banks recapitalized and increased capital, are now denied this opportunity. And in fact, discriminatory rules in favour of large banks at the expense of small, well, will be approved if this law is adopted. But there is no other law, and a new law will no longer be drawn up. So when you're asked why little Ukrainian banks died, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u114	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 85, which is requested for confirmation. She was taken into account and supported by the committee, and the author asks her to support her. So, number 85, asks the committee and the author to support it. Please vote, 85 revisions. This is the last amendment, and then we move on to making a decision. [[17:19:38]] For-163 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to come into the hall, take your jobs and prepare for the vote. One more minute, final word. Sergei Rybalka, head of the committee. One minute, and we're going to the vote. Invite everyone into the hall. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The bill on simplifying the restructuring and capitalization of banks is extremely important. Today, in a country in economic crisis, when we lost more than 50 percent of the banking system, I think we owe it to the banks of the third, fourth group to survive, because they are small and medium-sized banks where people work too. And our main concern as states and politicians is to save citizens' and businesses' money and to make sure that Ukrainian banks are able to develop in the market. So I think it's very important to give this bill. to support and enable them to unite in the event of failure. the failure to comply with these dragon regulations established by the National Bank of Ukraine. So our committee is asking you to support, Your Honor, this bill. And the Radical Party faction will vote for it, too. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u117	I want a stenographer. Andrew Volodymyrovich, 30 seconds, under the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u118	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u119	Yeah, under the stenographer. In view of the fact that the deviation with a view to a comprehensive settlement of the relevant issues from the full resolution of the relevant legislation needs to be fully taken into account in the following amendments, which are now taken into account in substance or in part, number 66, 70, 74, 78, 79, 80 in the second paragraph of article 4 of the first bill, by the words “Part Six, paragraph 1,” should be amended to read “Part Three, point 1”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u120	So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on simplifying the procedures for the capitalization and reorganization of banks (6010) with the rights that the head of the Committee, Sergey Rybalka, has written under the transcript, in the second reading and in general. This is supported by a committee supported by the government, supported by the National Bank. Please vote and support 6010 in the second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[17:22:26]] For 253 The law is passed. Let's move on to the next draft of the law. And I'm asking you to work very hard. In the daytime, the next law is 5265. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of the ATO (to improve the regulation of relations from the use of state and municipal property in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine). This is the first-reading block, and so I ask you to support its consideration by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:23:13]] For-174 174-yes. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u121	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the purpose of this bill is to regulate gaps in existing legislation, which creates different conditions for business entities in the use of state and municipal property in an area where the authorities of Ukraine temporarily do not operate and on the territory of the collision line. To address this problem, the bill proposes to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of ATO, which, by analogy with the rental of state and municipal property, will temporarily cancel concession payments for the right to create, build or manage, the exploitation of state and municipal property located in locations where public authorities do not temporarily exercise their powers, and in areas on the line of collision. Dear colleagues, the Chief Research Administration supports the bill on the basis. The result of the anticorruption committee is positive. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship supported the bill and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading as a basis and as a whole as a technical law. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I will ask you to accept it without discussion to accelerate our movement by. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u122	Colleagues, please have a very brief discussion. Please record: two in, two in. Loco, very delicate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u123	I'm handing Yuri Vasilovich Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u124	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, the bill that we are currently considering is proof of how many non-professional personnel we have working in local self-government and in government. Because if the events we're talking about are happening, then the general norm of the Civil Code or the Master Code on force majeure and only because in places officials who manage public utilities are inexperienced and unable to apply the applicable law, the Supreme Council should work for them and submit a bill. Because of the fact that we're looking at the actual bills that are needed in the state today, we're just putting another oil on the oil to make our officials. To directly touch their noses that if an enterprise is located or an object within the occupied territory and cannot carry out activities, it is a force majeure situation and the rent is not charged. So I would like to ask the Cabinet of Ministers very much to say that many of the things we're taking here are solved at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers and clarifications to local governments and authorities as well as when the law needs to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u126	Thank you. The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u127	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. I would like to point out to the previous speaker that, according to the current legislation, the documents on force majeure are published by the Chamber of Commerce. We passed the previous law. in the previous Supreme Council, but unfortunately that the Chamber of Commerce in this direction is not enforcing the law, I've been judging them for a third year. And why, really, the Cabinet doesn't see it as a crime, I don't know. We must now accept this bill without discussion in order to protect the possibility today. those utilities that we don't have an administration for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u128	Thank you for being so concise. Dusk's Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, the draft law is indeed technical. It is aimed at settling this colossal situation that has been. It's the one that exists. It existed during the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the duration of the anti-terrorist operation, so the Opposition Block faction will support the committee's proposal to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u130	Colleagues, we move on to the vote. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. And I ask the secretariat to inform the deputies that there will be a decision-making process now. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u131	Please be supportive. It's the right law. Thank you for the profile committee that handled it quickly. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u132	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please take up your jobs. Please come into the hall. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of the ATO (to improve the settlement of relations between the use of state and municipal property in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine (No.5265)) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:28:44]] For 238. The law is passed. Colleagues, we're moving to the next draft law of the day, this is also from the industrial policy bloc, the draft law amending the law of Ukraine on the financial recovery of the state-owned enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Engineering Plant Makarov" (5113). And Alexander Kugel is invited to the report. Please. Excuse me. First, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote on the summary procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:29:32]] For-189 Decision taken. And please, Alexander Kugel, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u133	Thank you very much. I'll try very briefly. First of all, thank you, Mr. Head, for taking it out, for a year and a half, several MP groups have been required. This is a law prepared by the deputies of the Fatherland factions and the Radical Party in connection with a very difficult situation. But Mr. Chicken Maxim and Deputy Krivenko joined in with his support and work. I thank you so much for supporting this bill. But I want to make it clear what we need to do now. Today we have to adopt this bill and a bill to close the debt on this enterprise. And we go to the zero point of supporting the enterprise and closing its debt. They now have four contracts that allow them to start work. And we have to, that's the response of the Self-Help faction, not intervene or give any more money from the budget. And the Cabinet of Ministers will make a normal financial plan and create normal conditions and conditions for the South German company. In this case, in our bill, we don't take a penny out of the budget. We're just helping the Cabinet of Ministers to get the right to restructure the sea start loan, not in 2017, because the war in Russia has cut four times their release, but since 2020. And that's agreed with Minfin and the government, and that's the state's position. And the next bill that needs to be considered right now is the closing of the debt on salary. We've given and closed off the electricity debt. We're putting the enterprise at zero point. And we demand that the government give the conditions and the authority to work for a national national producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u134	Thank you, colleagues! We really do have a bill of 5693, which is compatible with this bill, which deals with the budgetary issue. If we accept it, I'll carry 5693. And we're going to take the second one right now because they're adjacent. Is that accepted? Colleagues, I beg you briefly: two in favor, two in favor. And from the committee. Head of the Halasyuk committee, Viktor Valeriyovich, co-report. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! The committee is asking for the support of this bill as a basis and as a whole with technical legal work. This bill will essentially save the Southman's day, allowing the major amount of government debt to be restructured by extending its payment from 2020 to 10 years. And write down fines for about 82 million dollars. This will allow the enterprise to secure its business properly, but certainly the next task of the Cabinet of Ministers is a strategy for the development of the enterprise. And we will also contribute to this in Parliament. The bill is an expert project with Minfin. The anti-corruption conclusion is positive. So I propose that we take it as a basis and generally as a law with technical and legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u136	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to have a discussion right now, but as in the previous one, I'm asking you to do as much as I can during the discussion. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Guilty, People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u137	Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. The People's Front faction supports this bill. And as a member of the profiling committee, I would like to ask all the deputies not to leave the hall and vote again. And I'd like to draw Mr. Victor Halasyuk's attention to the following, there's an editorial, we have a bill, if I'm not mistaken, that prescribes a mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers, starting in 2016, for today we have the year 2017, so it needs to be edited to be taken into account in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u138	Opanasenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u139	Pass the word to Victoria Vojcitsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u140	Mrs. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u141	The self-help union position that the state should treat its enterprises as state-owned. And so we have before we make any decisions, see exactly the financial plan, and understand why the next one has a debt restructuring proposal a few more years in advance. As noted by the previous reporter, such a task was placed before the Cabinet of Ministers. So why are you trying to convince us that we have to buy the cat in the bag again? This is totally unacceptable and anti-economic. So first, the numbers, the responsibility of the management that led the company to this state, and then we'll make the right decisions at Parliament's level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u142	Thank you. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u143	I'm asking you to pass the word to Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u144	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Andrew Volodymyrovich! I thank you so much for helping the entire session room to support those bills. Today's day-to-day issue is the survival of the Northman. I'm convinced that, thanks to our joint cooperation, we will be able to make all the prerequisites in order for the factory to get back on its feet in 2017. I'm asking for the support of all my colleagues. There's a question for management, but there's an accounting room, there's law enforcement, there's a need to increase the efficiency of the plant, but we can't lose our missile space sector. I'd like everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u145	Papiev Mikhailo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u146	Thank you. Please pass the word to the real engineer, Sergio Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u147	Matvienkov, 57-1 district, Mariupol. Respectable colleagues, of course, need the law and should be supported without a doubt. But, you know, when we look at such bills, unfortunately we have to note that the fundamental disadvantage of the current power, the present Government, is sovereignty. Mantra's about what's necessary. You can't get into the business of such large industries and the fact that the market is all levelled up, it's not going to do any good. But we, on the other hand, understand that restructuring itself to date is not an end in itself, it is not an idea and it is not the outcome of what needs to be done in order for the enterprise to earn money. We understand that restructuring is a mechanism that will push market entry, push technology, upgrade, attract investment, find specific integrated programmes for the development of this enterprise, to increase its capacity, capacity and so on. And here, unfortunately, we find that someone is fighting, maybe somewhere, like a fish on ice, and on the part of the Government, on the side of the Cabinet of Ministers, we don't see the arms stretched out, we don't see the mechanisms that would allow these programmes to decide and move out of this closed circle. Therefore, as a first step — for, we take, we say that yes, we need to keep up, we need to cheat, we need to help our engineers and metalsmiths and chemists and miners — we all need to help. But we have to understand one thing that is the backbone of the economy: it is industry, it is the backbone of the budget, and it is the structure that fills the budget. And today we must receive an integrated programme for the development of our economy, which unfortunately we do not see until today, and this is the greatest weakness of our Government, I reiterate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u148	Ivan Kirilenko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the entire room because there is a concern that the law may not pass. I understand the principle of the position of some factions and some deputies who rightly say that there is a remark, they really make sense. But, my friends, we're saving not "Yushmasch," we're saving the scientific mark of a product that's almost in Ukraine, a product that defines scientific and technological progress not only in Ukraine, but in the whole world, it's a missile and space sector. It's not an enterprise problem, it's a state's problem to go to world markets with such products, it's a terrible competition for space. Friends, don't support it to kill even the only one that lives that determines our perspective. I very much ask to reconcile ambitions, really, if you look at the question as the book says, it's really hard to support. But if you look deeper, you have to definitely support your friends, because there is a concern that the law may not pass. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u150	Last act, Radical Party, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u151	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. One of the famous people said that the job is over, that life is over. Our task of creating a job for Ukrainians, overcoming mass poverty in Ukraine can only be done by raising Ukrainian wages and incomes. When national production is destroyed as a result of underprivileged power policies, that means that Ukrainians are losing their jobs, that means they're ending their lives. Therefore, the Radical Party faction supports the Southdenmash, supports the Harkowsky Turboat, supports the Hersonic, Mikolai Shipbuilding Plants, supports the Kharkiv Tractor Plant and hundreds of thousands of enterprises throughout the country in order for the Ukrainians to have a powerful economy in order for our country to be strong, we must not get married, and we must earn. To do that, we need to change the radically economic and monetary policies of today's government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u152	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please, 30 seconds head of the committee, come into the hall, take your seats. 30 seconds, Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u153	Dear colleagues, especially those who have made warnings to the bill, I appeal to you. Indeed, it is a tactical anti-crisis step, but it paves the way for strategy. Look at this: the company will pay off the debt to the state, which is a quarter of an equal in ten years, starting in the 20th year, according to the Cabinet of Ministers' plan for enterprise development. This is the answer to your question and I ask you to show all the state's position to support this tactical anti-crisis step. And the last (under protocol) in the new article 2 prime 1 '2016' to replace '2017', because this bill has long been prepared to be in the Committee of Prompolitics and to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u154	Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Engineering Plant" (No. 5113), as amended by the amendment of the year announced by the head of the Halasyuk committee under the transcript, on the basis and in general, of technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:41:44]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, as I promised, are a passing bill of 5693, but we are working very intensively now to transfer it to the consideration it stands in two. It's after two, it's a passing bill, I'm asking you to support the transfer now, to consider now 5693 this on the same subject just to make a change in the budget so that we can now consider it very quickly and very briefly to include it in the agenda and to consider now 5693. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Carry the one in two. [[17:42:33]] For 204 There's no support. Then I'll put it again, colleagues. It's a passing bill. Maybe I'll explain it one more time. So it's a side-by-side bill that, according to the previous decision, changes the budget. Maybe I'll do it again. Is that understood or not? 5693. I'm betting once again that we take a look at 5693. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. We're voting, colleagues, to put it in the agenda and we're looking at it. Please be supportive. [[17:43:21]] For 221 Colleagues, for the last time, I'm explaining this adjacent law. The previous one won't work unless we make a change to the Budget Act. I'm going to re-supply 5693 to put now, to move, to the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please vote back. [[17:44:00]] For 224 Guys, I'll put it back together. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next draft of the Law: 6099. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Protection of the Rights of Domestic Farmers (No. 6099). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please. [[17:44:49]] For 211 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Krishin Oleg Yuriovich. Please, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u155	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, the above-mentioned bill proposes to ensure the realization of the legitimate rights of agricultural enterprises, the restoration of the equality of such taxpayers before the law and the non-admission of any forms of tax discrimination. The bill proposes to increase the value of the value of the added value tax by 31 December 2017, at which the payer can register tax invoices in the Single Register of Tax Letters for the sum of the amounts it has recalculated in January 2017 from the current accounts for special accounts to no more than the amount declared for the payment of special agricultural invoices for the December 2016 tax. Within the limits of the amount of such an increase, the taxpayer is entitled to submit to the State Fiscal Service an application for the listing of such costs from the electronic tax administration system for the added value of such a payer, a tax at his current expense, in accordance with article 200.1.6, paragraph 200.1 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. The purpose of the bill is that, in early 2017, the State Treasury Service of Ukraine blocked accounts in the VAT electronic administration system for agricultural producers. The Treasury referred to the relevant letters from the DFS. Thus, a large number of agro-enterprises were unable to benefit from the legal right to payment of VAT for 2016. This is true of companies that made their production in the second half of December last year. Blocking has led to the failure of agro-enterprises to register tax receipts, as provided for by the Special Service. They were forced to avoid fines, register such consignment notes in general. Although such problems should not have arisen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u156	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u157	Because the treasury bills were due to work until January 30, 2017. And for the companies that chose the quarterly tax period, by February 19, 2017. The adoption and implementation of the bill does not require any additional material or any other expenditure of Ukraine's national or local budgets, as its implementation will be made at the expense of the entity's economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u158	The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, at the meeting of the Committee on March 15, 2017, we discussed the bill. Everyone knows that the bill is designed to solve the problem of the electronic tax administration system for the added value arising from the agrarians due to the difference between the special VAT in January and January. It was said that it was offered to those farms that were on the guard, that it would be possible to register tax receipts for those bills that had been thrown into specs and that were not unlocked at the time by the State Fiscal Service. As a result of the committee's consideration, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Tax Code to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention and please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u160	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. Do not press the head of the Supreme Council. Please, Heratchenko Anton Yuriovich. It's very thin. Thank you for refusing. This will shorten our time. Ilyuk Artem Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u161	Please pass the word to Kulinich, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a really important bill. The fact is that many of the agro-enterprises that made their production in the second half of December were unable to use their right to register tax receipts because the bills were blocked almost the entire January, although they were. They were supposed to be working until January 30th. And only one day on January 13, they were unlocked, and not all businesses were able to take advantage of that right. In this regard, in order to avoid fines, agro-enterprises counted these costs, not into special treasury accounts, but in general and thus depended on them. It's a technical bill, we're allowing this problem to be resolved. And given the situation where our agrarians are now in, that's the problem with mineral fertilizers, that's the problem with breaking the special regime, not working, because there's a problem. I would ask both the committee and colleagues to vote this bill as a basis and as a whole, because it's completely technical and there's nothing to do with the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u163	Thank you. Evlakhov Anatoly Sergiyovich. And I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u164	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u165	Dear colleagues, this bill solves the problems that we have created ourselves by eliminating VAT for farmers and taking them to the general tax system. During the transition from one system to another, the costs they paid for agriculture, which they would have been entitled to compensation, depended on it, and today they can't get it. We've already got spring on our noses, they've got soybeans, they've got no money. They really need money today. A tax check will be carried out before this VAT refund is received, and there is no possibility of abuse. So I very much ask you all to support this bill and vote for it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u166	Eutuszek asks for John Kirilenko’s word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to the whole room. I'm talking to the head of the committee in the rostrum. Guys, we need to get in first and second readings right away. The spring-field work began. Blocked accounts in 40,000 farms, that's for small and medium-sized ones. The question isn't just 2 billion blocked, it's about blocked spring-field jobs. Friends! The first and second readings at the same time, because if we just vote first now, the second is May, the signed law will be in black. Who's gonna need it in June, my friends? Please immediately vote on this as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u168	Colleagues, therefore, my request is to have as concise a discussion as possible. In five or six minutes, we'll lose our votes. And that's why I'm asking all the proponents of this bill to speak minimally. No, one more minute, Oleg Berezuk. Ostrika, excuse me, one minute. And let's go to the vote. So that we can consider the law. Please, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u169	Dear colleagues! Indeed, an important bill that needs to be adopted. Because an unforeseeable transition period has been from cancelling the safe to complete taxation of agricultural VAT. Indeed, because of the DFS’s fault, which the letters of December 28 and December 30 had blocked the possibility of registering December’s tax returns, they caused the problem. But there is one thing about voting in general. The bill proposes to allow the formula to be completed by December 31, 2017. Isn't that too big a time? This warning also sounded on the committee. For what do we give a year so that businesses can register December’s tax receipts? And will this not be an opportunity for abuse? And as we know, agrarians tend to do that. Taxed on added value.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u170	Colleagues, please, for 30 seconds now, we're head of the committee and we're voting. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u171	Dear colleagues! Why was the committee’s decision to take only as a basis? Because there's this phrase, after the DFS has given all the payment orders, they have to return the money from the security account to the primary. But there are agricultural enterprises that have not counted. They knew they'd lock up and chase only 50 percent. So if you're here because of technical law enforcement, you can just put it through someone, "only with those who have this money in the accounts." In order for the budget not to compensate for its excess costs, yes, then the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u172	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Protection of the Rights of the Agricultural Farmer (No.6099) with an amendment that was issued from the rostrum under the transcript by Eugene Nina Petrovna, on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:55:00]] For 274 The law is passed. Colleagues, there's another tax committee law. I continue for 15 minutes at the Council meeting, which is my right to regulate. And I'm moving on to the next draft of the law. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the clarification of certain provisions and the elimination of contradictions arising from the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Change to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Improvement of Investment Climate in Ukraine (No.6210). He's next in line on the day. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[17:55:54]] For 213 213 – for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u173	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Once again, we go back to the possibility of correcting the technical error and error in the matter of taxation of economic operators working in occupied areas and on the collision line. It is in this bill to avoid imbalances in the local budgets of the Donetské and Lugansk regions that a rule has been introduced to prohibit the return of property and non-residential property taxes for the period of the anti-terrorist operation, as well as land payments for land in the temporarily occupied territory, on the territory of the population on the collision line and (or) on the territory of the anti-terrorist operation. You and I have learned that we have a large number of appeals to the city of Mariupol and the city of Torres, where they are now required to return from the budgets the substantial amounts paid by entrepreneurs starting in April 2014. And this is now a big threat to the budget. That's why. In addition, by the time these rules were processed, the State Fiscal Service and the Ministry of Finance had confirmed that it was on the collision line that they had the ability to control economic operators, so these benefits continued to be passed through all the sub-items of the "Transitional Positions" item in the area of taxation of business entities on the collision line. They are governed by general rules. In addition, we clarified the last paragraph about the validity of our accepted standard in December of the half-rate for dividends paid by payers on another tax system, which is the general tax system. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u174	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u175	In its consideration of the bill, the committee decided that I should read from the vote, that is to say paragraph 11 of paragraph 38.11 of section I of the bill, as well as the following: "The provisions listed in this sub-paragraph apply to taxpayers, tax agents who, on 1 April 2017, changed their location, the place of residence from the temporarily occupied territory and (or) the territory of the population, located on a collision line to another territory of Ukraine and paid taxes to the budget during the anti-terrorist operation under this code." Taking into account the Committee's proposals to sub-paragraph 38.1.11. of the Committee's decision to recommend that the Supreme Council consider a bill and adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u176	Thank you, colleagues. Please record two in, two in, and two in, against, and in a concise way. Please. The watermelon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u177	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you -- this is the law on Donetské, Lugansk district, and I'm a major in my 60th constituency, and there are these settlements. Now they have to pay taxes to businesses, and that's a huge amount of money for these local budgets. We've just created a colossal coalition where just a lot of people's collision lines are going to run out of funding. I ask you to understand this and vote, here is the previous law that brought this hall together, the same law that is necessary to unite the entire room. I'm speaking to you on behalf of all the people who live on the collision line, this is Granite, Novotroitsky, Audio, this is exactly the population and they're suffering from what the court has decided to pay back. Friends, understand this situation and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u178	Thank you. Yvchenko's handing over Kugel from Fatherland, and I'm really asking for a cut, because we're just going to lose votes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u179	We're practically 90 percent supporting the bills that Mrs. Yuzanin passed, and I'm supporting my previous colleague, that he's very important. But on a barrel of honey, there's a spoon of tart that doesn't give the Fatherland the right to support this bill. This is the restoration of paragraph 3 of paragraph 76 of paragraph 3 of the Act, according to which the interest on dividends that have been accepted as VAT 18 percent decreases twice. This is the party's position we think we can't do that, or turn it off and we're voting 100% without this item on the ATO's agenda, and don't include such items from dividend improvement, or for people such important bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u180	Thank you. Opposition block, Balitsky Evgen Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u181	Please pass the word to Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u182	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important in terms of protecting the interests of the organs of the local government of Donetsk and Lugansk. After all, according to the tax laws in force, there was a situation in which they were forced to pay the local taxes previously paid by taxpayers. But they don't have the right financial resources. If we don't accept this bill now, in the plenary room, there will be imbalances in the local budgets. I ask you to save the local budgets and balance their incomes with the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u183	Thank you. From Self-Help, Ostrike Tetjana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, of course, there are some very positive things in this bill, and in the part that talks about the imbalance of local budgets on the collision line, the Self-Help faction strongly supports that the collision line should not be affected, because only from the information of the Audieuve VCA did the budget of the Audiovka suffer 60 million dollars that are now in need of a return. But this bill, in fact, we have today's Tax Code, is the only place that contains the definition of occupied territory at the level of the law. Now we're still entering the ATO area here, which is much broader than the notion of occupied territory. And those things that want to settle for land taxes and real estate taxes in the ATO area, they're wrongly written. So this bill needs some work between the first and the second readings about the ATO area and the occupied territories. And it's not clear why paragraph 38.4 removes the sentence that during the period of the ATO, the structural unit located in the occupied territory, and the legal person is in the controlled territory of Ukraine, such a structural unit must now pay taxes under the current legislation, submit tax declarations to the principal place of accounting of the legal person, i.e. in the territory of Ukraine, so that we can actually control and receive taxes from the structural unit. So this bill needs to be finalized between the first and the second readings, and we're ready to do that. But to vote for such things on the basis and in general -- we've already done this before the new year, and now we're correcting technical differences. Let's work and make quality, really quality text.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u185	Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u186	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You know, I've been kidding around friends that I've been to Mariupola probably more often than my own Chernig. Since 2014, when we have liberated this beautiful city, we have often traveled there and know its problems. One problem, for example, is that Russian occupations despoiled the Anakyi metallurgical combination that was reregistered in Mariupoli, which lost the income of the local budget of 80 million dollars. Today, tens of thousands of forced displaced persons are registered in Mariupola. So the Radical Party faction will support the law, which will save the local budget, because the mayor of Mariupola, one of the best in Ukraine, is spending all the money on repairing the city, repairing the housing for the movers, repairing the social infrastructure. And with the opportunity, I'm talking to the government: predict the cost of repairing the road to Mariupol, replacing trains and wagons, because people travel from Mariupol to Lviv for more days than pigs, in dumplings. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u187	So, colleagues, now Nina Petrovn Jujanin, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. I see a lot of people are out. And I'm asking the factions to mobilize deputies to make a decision. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u188	I'll explain very briefly. It was the law that included the territory of an antiterrorist operation, but part of it was controlled to reflect this rule so that the return would not apply to Mariupul. It's an anti-terrorist area, but it's controlled, and there tax payers pay taxes, and we've made them pay back all the taxes to these tax payers. What else can we call this territory, like this area in the area of anti-terrorist operation, but it's controlled. And so now it's about dividends. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right, we've been through this. Dividends are two technical. Last time, I suggested at 0940 that I correct four technical errors. You didn't support the tax police, there's two standards. There's two left. So they come from me as the head of the committee, just two technical mistakes that we made at the reception. No special combination.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u189	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u190	These standards don't happen. Please vote. Half of the dividends we accepted in December last year, that's not new. Not new. I know you were against it. I am very much asking you to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. There is nothing to work on, and all standards are verified and clearly stated. What's more, we've made a huge weakening against the standard that is now in effect. What else is discontent? I think this bill is supposed to unite the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-23-m1.u191	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. During the discussion, I see MPs coming out. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to clarify some of the provisions and eliminate the contradictions that arose when the Ukrainian Act was adopted, "On amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of the Investment Climate in Ukraine" of 21 December 2016 (No.6210), proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting on our colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] [[18:08:23]] For 240 With the amendments that Nina Petrovna made under the transcript, with the technical and legal rights, the colleague, the law was passed. And at this colleague's evening meeting. Colleagues, let's at least vote in favour of putting the day session 5693 into order. At least it's a turn-on. Colleagues, though included, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you now just to get into the order of the day session of 5693, he's next in line. It stands next, it's 30 seconds. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. It's the one adjacent to the South German. Just inclusion, not consideration. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 on increasing the amount of expenditure on salaries for employees of state-owned enterprises in the space sector, please vote, please support 5693. Just include the agenda of the day session, not the consideration. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[18:09:52]] For 216 I'll do it again, colleagues. I'm betting again on who didn't make it, 5,693 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[18:10:18]] For 222 No votes, colleague. Colleagues! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We had a busy but very productive evening session. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our plenary work. And at 10 o'clock, I ask everyone to come to the conference room and ask questions to the government. Thank you. Good-bye.
