ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and get ready for work. Is everyone ready to register? Please take up jobs. So I'd like the National Deputies to register. Let's register, colleagues. [[10:05:32]] 362 national deputies registered. And so I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Today is the birthday of two of our colleagues. And I want to welcome Eugene Yuriovich Rybczynski to his birthday. Congratulations. [[Applause]] Good luck. And Olenna Sergiyevna Sotnik. Mrs. Olena, welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] My colleagues, I also want to remind you that today we have the opportunity to watch the movie "Cyborgi" together at lunchtime. Heroes don't die" and meet the creative group that created this movie. And we have to say that it's the Supreme Council of Ukraine that defines the development of Ukrainian cinema as one of its main humanitarian priorities. And to a large extent, thanks to our decisions, we have a renaissance of Ukrainian cinema. And so I invite everyone on the third floor at 14 o'clock to watch the movie "Cyborga. Heroes don't die" and meet with a creative group. Now, colleagues, about the agenda. We have agreed with the Security and Defence Committee that we will be discussing the Security and Defence Unit on January 16 with the Law on pro-deoccupation. So this block of 16 January is going to be a separate key block, and we're going to have the whole block of security and defence in one day. And in the morning, we start with a law that we didn't finish yesterday. This is Act 6016-d: draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing Activities. And we're going to start the day after we continue to look at the rights. And I'm asking you to prepare NinuJujanina. And then we're going to go to the vote. After the vote, there will be a proposal to include issues in the agenda of the day session and then block. Then, as I was saying on the Conciliation Council, about 11 a.m., we will have the opportunity under 131 articles of the Ukrainian Rules to clarify the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget. "
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u2	I'm tasking the Apparatus to issue a decision to the Committee on Budgets. There was a decision yesterday, and they'll give it away, I think, pretty quickly. And there will also be a proposal to vote in favour of clarifying the Ukrainian Tax Code. But before these questions, it will be suggested that the draft Law on Anticorruption Courts be repealed. And I hope today the entire hall will be able to mobilize, and we can make that decision. So that's the logic of our first day of work. Oh, first half of the job. Then there'll be the laws of second reading, among them the disciplinary statute of the National Police, and this is the issue of the fence, which I think we're going to enter before lunch, because this is a question that really matters to Kiev today. And the effectiveness of the workday will depend on the discipline in the hall and will depend on how much compromise and understanding we find under the laws that are being proposed today. And so we continue to consider the draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing. And I invite you to the rostrum of Chief Rapporteur, the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u3	Mrs. Nina, thank you. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we've stopped at the 113th amendment of Mr. Dolzhenko. I now give the floor to announce this amendment. But we also have today Mrs. Kugel, who yesterday, just at this time will join us in the discussion, and we will return to a few amendments to Mrs. Kugel. Please, now, the 113th Amendment of Dolzhenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u4	Good morning, dear colleagues. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, 112 of our proposals were voted yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u5	113th. 113th. I've announced 113 of your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u6	And you have to focus on 113. Dear colleagues, however, the bill is aimed at excluding the monopolies of large audit companies with minor turnovers. The point is that proposal 113, 114, I ask them to be confirmed, they say that it is necessary to rule out rules in accordance with which, if for three years a particular subject of audit activity has had income from the provision of audit services that exceeds 15 percent of a particular enterprise that is of social interest, he is prohibited from providing significant services. This is, I think, an improper intervention in the field of auditing and a restriction on the right of an enterprise to choose an entity for its audit activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u7	I see. Now we're putting it in line for you to demand 113 and then 114. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u8	Thank you. Offers two, asked for time to go long. It is not possible for a State to impose a ban on the fact that a large taxpayer, a small taxpayer, cooperates with a particular entity of audit activity, depending on the amount of the funds that the designated entity receives, since its main objective is to carry out an independent, objective audit of the correctness of financial reporting, and here the direct prohibition is discrimination. Please support the following suggestions: 113 and 114. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u9	We heard you. Colleagues, please, at the request of Deputy Dolženkova, we put to the vote its amendment 113, then 114. The committee rejected them. 113 revisions. Identify yourself. [[10:12:44]] For-60 Not supported. 114 revisions now. Now it's 114. We're on our way. Please vote. [[10:13:05]] For-44 Your amendment is not supported. The next amendment is 115. For confirmation. 115th. 115. Amendment of the People’s Deputy Deputies, Alexia. Please, Ivchenko. I'm asking you to turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u10	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm talking to the chairman. Mrs. Irina, it's very important, 7403! Agrarian Affairs has proposed through the Deputys of Fatherland and Self-Help that it be the Law on Returning the Zero VAT rate in some agricultural cultures that we put into order today, that we correct that mistake that was made directly in the Tax Code. We ask you, along with other laws that you will put into the agenda, put 7403 in place, and the hall will have to determine how it relates to the agrarian complex. This is the requirement of an agrarian party, where there were most of the members of the agrarian committee, as well as some faction leaders. I'm asking you to put 7403 in the agenda so that the committee can take a break. Thank you. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u11	Dear colleague, you said that you are now putting the amendment to confirm, and you have announced a completely different proposal and norm. I respect all the factions that try to influence the order of the day, but that's how you disorient the hall. And I have a proposal, we're done with this bill, there's a great rule in the Rules: to take statements from two factions, to make a statement, and the Presidium, and the Hall is defined. So we're moving on. And now I'm going to give you the answers in the context of 115 amendments to Law 7403. We're going to move on, dear colleagues, and then we're going to answer the question after the discussion is over. 119, Dovebenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u12	Thank you. I'm grateful to the committee that most of my rights have counted, but there are two amendments that I'm going to put to the vote, 119 of them. It refers to the fact that the subject of the audit activity for the provision of services for the mandatory audit of financial reporting is designated by the general meeting of the shareholders’ association, which is part one of article 29. I propose that, not the general meetings of the shareholders’ association, but the supervisory board of the shareholders’ association, so I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u13	Let's put to the vote the amendment of 119 MP Drowbenko, who was rejected by the committee. [[10:16:15.]] For-59 Not supported. The next amendment is 130, Debonkov. Don't insist. 131st, Longenkov. Don't insist. 133rd. Doubenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u14	133 read: in part three of article 34 of the bill, the words "should not be related to such enterprises" are replaced by the words "must be independent." And I think it's going to be more legitimate from a legal point of view. I'd like the MPs to support my appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Colleagues, please vote for the 133rd Amendment of Doubenko, the National MP. [[10:17:13]] For-58 Next amendment, this one doesn't go through, 58 votes. Next up, 134, Debonkov. Debtkov? Don't insist. Oksana Sold, 150 repairs. Don't insist. 162nd, Ostrichova. Don't insist. 163th Semenha. Don't insist. 168th, Ostrichova, Semenicha. Don't insist. 169th, Ostrichova, Semenicha. Don't insist. Oksana Prodan, don't insist on the amendment, 192nd. Ostrikova, Semenha, 205. They insist. 205th, please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u16	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues! Dear reporter! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I said yesterday that, in particular, article 49, paragraph 2, of this bill, paragraph 2, of the Council's draft, provides an opportunity to review decisions adopted by the Auditor's Chamber within the limits of its powers and, in the event of unreasonableness, to cancel. To my profound conviction, this creates an actual opportunity for abuse and actual subordination of the Auditorium of the Board of Supervisors. Such unlimited possibilities of influencing the activities of the Auditorium of Ukraine are the latter’s rivalry as a self - control body. If we want to create a truly institutionally independent body, I'm still asking you to listen and consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u17	Thank you for your clarification. 205 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Semimenach and Ostrick. Vote, please. [[10:19:48]] For-39 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Colleagues, the committee has worked very consistently on the bill, almost all the amendments have been taken into account, and we are essentially approaching a final consideration of the amendments. It's the 232nd Amendment, Mrs. Kugel. Please, the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u18	Please, let me. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. First, to the chairman. I point out that yesterday, in violation of the Rules, this law was laid down, that in order to talk about this issue is very important to an audit and not allow all the authors who have amended it. And we made 16 amendments with Julia Volodymyrna, 14 of which are not considered for you to understand. But when you're not taken into account, the amendments say "not in line with the conceptual principles of the directive," it's the same thing as writing "not in conformity with the spirit of the law." Mrs. Jujanina herself came up with conceptual principles, and then all those who didn't fall under her principles disagreed. First of all, I'm paying attention to all the deputies that the bill is complete. I'm sorry, it's the EU Directive and its Rules that Mrs. Eugene refers to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u19	Please, let me finish. One minute, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u20	I'm sorry, I can do two in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u21	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u22	Second amendment, and I won't talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u23	I'll give you every correction. Please, two minutes, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u24	Thank you. I point out that this law, dear friends, you will answer to your electorate. He practically expanded the audit committee, which he called social interest, by 90 percent of all businesses. And then you're going to have very negative communication with your entrepreneurship voters. And our scientific and expert council concluded, "As a result of the drafting of the bill, we note that its position is not in accordance with the Constitution and other laws of Ukraine." I appeal to all the deputies: this bill cannot be supported because it is a disgraceful bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we are now voting on two amendments to Mrs. Kugel. I also want to point out the only thing that we did yesterday, we went in the daytime, and after considering the five cancellation orders, we moved on to consideration of the amendments. We are ready to vote today, to consider the amendments you have made with the honourable Mrs. Timoshenko, yes, and to consider them by voting in the hall. So, according to the insistence of National Deputy Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, we are now voting for amendment 232, which the committee has rejected. Colleagues, please vote. [[10:23:12]] For-49 And the next amendment Mrs. Kugel just announced is 235. I'm asking you to determine by voting in the hall. The committee rejected this amendment, Mrs. Kugel. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:23:36]] For-53 53 votes is not supported. Next, Amendment 234, Debtors. Debenkov, a national MP, does not insist on 234 amendments. Colleagues, we've considered all the amendments. I ask you to return to the rostrum. I ask you to summarize, Mrs. Yuzanin, the consideration of this bill, to thank the committee and all the colleagues who have amended it, as well as the committee that has worked in a consolidated way to take them into account so that we can quickly pass this bill in the hall. And I ask my colleagues to return to the session room, because in two minutes there will be a vote for this bill. Nina Petrovna, please summarize the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you again about this bill. The second reading, as I said yesterday, included 80 percent of the amendments. You have indeed seen with new eyes, with fresh eyes, those standards that we have been able to correct or write in a new edition in order to clearly interpret them. I really share with you the idea that the requirements for auditing companies are increasing considerably. But we're talking about the future of our countries, about the audience who are the highest in accounting, in finance, in the economy that can analyze the economic activity of the subject they're auditing. It was in order for audit companies to provide quality reports that we also talked about the standards that large businesses should not optimize the profits of large business entities. So it is in the bill that there are rules, including the remuneration that the audit companies receive. Because if one auditing company -- look at the statistics -- is doing a mandatory audit of all the securities market entities for 1200 bracelets, do you think they're auditing these subjects? No, they don't. And then there's the other side. When an audit firm gets 50 percent of the gross income of the company it's auditing, it's clear that it's pure optimism. So, of course, in our bill, there are rules that are written just to regulate the market. And once again, I want to reiterate that this bill gives a large number of audit firms access.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u27	Let me finish one minute. Colleagues, I very much ask you to return to the session room. In a moment, a vote will take place on this important bill. I'm asking you to return to the session room. And after the completion of Mrs. Souther's speech, I ask the Secretariat to announce the same announcement so that the MPs will return. Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! This bill gives a large number of audiences of Ukrainian companies themselves to examine subjects of social interest. We took the first step with you and adopted the amendments to the Accounting and Financial Reporting Act. We were obliged to publish the financial report along with the audit reports for a new category of companies. This is the information that's always been hidden from citizens, from experts. We passed that law. Let's say "a" after "b" and vote for this bill. So that the standards that we have adopted will work. I'm asking you very much for your support, please. If there is, indeed, more, more, we have considered that the act of this bill is somewhat delayed due to the fact that we are too late.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Please go to your place of work. Dear colleagues, in just one minute, we are starting to vote on the Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing. There are government officials here who are asking to support this important bill. The government has a consolidated position here with the drafters and with the committee that has prepared for the second reading of the bill. Colleagues, please take up jobs. And we're going to the vote. Mrs. Nina, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u30	My colleagues, so we finished the discussion. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, don't let us go back to the vote. I ask everyone to take up jobs with discipline, to get as close to their cards as possible. We're moving on to making a decision. Please, we're taking up jobs. And once again, as soon as we vote in favour of the law, we'll have a block of "inclusion in the agenda of the day session." So I ask you to stay put, and immediately after this vote, there will be the next vote -- the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please come into the hall. Take up your jobs, colleagues. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm voting on the draft Financial Audit and Audit Act (No. 6016-d) on a second-reading committee proposal and in general on technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we carefully vote, we take part in the vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:31:13]] For 213 Colleagues, I'll put you back. Heads of factions, please mobilize the deputies in the hall. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. I'll show you in factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 104 People's Front – 45, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 18, Radical Party – 8, Parenthood – 0, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 18. So we have every opportunity to adopt the law, we just need to mobilize the people's deputies. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall and vote, not to wander the hall, but to be in their workplaces. So you're ready, right? They're still coming, I see there's more MPs coming. I'm also asking the secretariat to invite the delegates from the watchtowers. Please come in, take your places. Members of the committee are requested to assist in the mobilization of deputies. And, colleagues, now I'm making an offer. Careful! I ask everyone to vote carefully. I propose to return to the vote in favour of the draft Financial Audit and Audit Act. Colleagues, we vote carefully, each voice matters. I ask everyone to take part in the vote carefully. We're voting for the return. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:33:49]] For 228 We're back. I see another voice. Now I'm putting the law to the vote. Please vote carefully. Now we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft law. The columns, the columns, they go into the hall. Soon we'll be running out of seats in the Chamber for all deputies. Please take your seats. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing Activities (No. 6016-d) on second reading and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues, carefully each voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:34:55]] For 224 Two votes. I see all the warnings, I see who didn't work, and I see some factions giving more, fewer votes. Please take your seats, I'll put it again. Two votes is critical, so I'm going to put it back again. So you're ready, right? All units, please take part in the vote. I'm proposing to go back to the 6016-d draft, and I'm asking everyone to vote, and I'm asking you to support the proposal to return. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:36:12]] For 229 We're back. It was just a misunderstanding, wasn't it? Now, colleagues, now, colleagues, I ask you all to prepare. And I'm voting on draft Law 6016d in second reading and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote back. Colleagues, we vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:36:52]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, now the block is important, which it predicts. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, attention! Colleagues, we now have an important block that provides for the inclusion of the day session. inclusion in the agenda of the day session. And now from all the factions of the proposal will be included in the agenda of the day session. And, colleagues, now all fractions of proposals will be included in the agenda of the day session. Every vote, colleagues, is important, don't leave the hall, I ask you very much not to leave the hall. In the day-to-day session, there are proposals from all factions, sometimes we lack one or two votes. Please, colleagues, don't leave the hall. I'm asking you to mobilize, especially the factions of the coalition. I want to remind you that there was a request yesterday that we put in the order of the day session of 7403. Yeah? And I want to remind you that 7403 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain issues of taxation by adding value to export operations outside the customs territory of Ukraine of oil crops. There is only an offer to include it in the agenda of the day session. 7403, colleagues. And I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I ask you to vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[10:38:57]] For 207 I'll put it again, all right, colleagues. But you're not aging me, and you're aging your colleagues in the hall. No, we won't have any discussions, we won't have any discussions. I, my colleagues, will once again put draft Law 7403 into the agenda of the day session. And I want to stress, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session, just getting into the agenda of the day session. I'm asking you to get all mobile and I'm asking you to vote, and support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please support, please vote, please support. Voting, voting. [[10:40:01]] For 232 We've put the day session in order, and the committee's already opening up an opportunity to look at it. Next, colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase liability for individual traffic security offences. And I, my colleagues, would like to ask you to be fully mobile, an extremely important Bill 7286. And I'm asking you, colleagues, now to maintain integration in order. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! So, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So, colleagues, I ask you now to watch carefully the bills that we are voting on. So the following: 7279 and 7279-1 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the pre-trial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences. The bill, both basic and alternative, is extremely important for the law enforcement system. And I ask everyone to support the proposal to include it in the agenda for making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace, and I'm asking you to support and vote, colleagues. So please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making today. Please support, we vote. [[10:43:27]] For 197 I'll put it again, colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. I ask you once again to put in the agenda for decision 7279, 7279-1. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:44:05]] For 211
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u31	One more time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u32	211. Colleagues, attention, no discussion. If we start talking about the bill, we're not going to finish this day. Careful, fellows! I ask you to listen carefully, while voting in favour of the previous law, I was informed that there were non-personal voting. So after voting for this block of issues, I'm going to re-vote for the law. For the law that we've been looking at in the 6016s. So there will be peace in the hall. You got it, right? I'll put it on the vote. But now I'm asking everyone to support Law 7279 and Law 7279-1. This law is nonpolitical; it is essential for the law - enforcement system, the entire legal system. I'm giving Andrew Cosemykin 30 seconds. A very short line, Andrew Cosemiakin. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u33	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Bill No. 7279, which is now proposed to be included in the agenda, colleague, is a long-awaited bill for all law enforcement agencies, all of them: for all investigators, for all operational investigators. Why? Because he eventually distributes crimes that are now serious, especially serious, and separates them from crimes that are not serious, or transgressions, we will call them criminal offenses. This bill on criminal misconduct, we've been working on it for a year. There's an alternative to self-help and the Peter Dust Block of factions. We're going to do a great job on each other, and there's going to be a normal law, so that we can open up the investigators today, which are, excuse me, 600 of the cases they're dealing with: theft, some kind of damage or something. And serious and particularly serious crimes, i.e. murders, any physical, there's, excuse me, some other, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u34	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u35	Colleagues, it's not a political issue, it's a question of survival today of our law enforcement agencies in the country, because the disclosure of crimes that are particularly serious and serious today is very low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u36	So my colleagues, 7279 and 7279-1, I put it together. Colleagues, I'm putting them together for a day-to-day session for decision-making. So they're all oriented? I ask you to prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft of Laws 7279 and 7279-1. Please vote and please support. Every voice matters. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:48:16]] For 243 Decision taken. The next one, please take a close look at it. The next 7363, 7363-1, 7363-2 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the creation and activities of small farmers. I don't know. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please vote. Vote. [[10:49:02]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I'll do it again. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. I'll do it again. Colleagues, you're clear. I'll put it again, let's make it 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2. Let's vote, colleagues. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:43]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Next, 7180. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of government banks. 7180 and 7180-1. Please vote. Please be supportive. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. [[10:50:18]] For-167 [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm afraid your voice wouldn't be decisive. But. Let's, if there's a vote close, I'll come back. If it's at least 220. Next: 6675. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide public information on the financing of community activities and the use of international technical assistance. Integrating the agenda for the decision-making session is a committee proposal. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:51:12]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Next: 6542, 6542d. Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:51:38]] For-188. The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, this is now going to be about revoking Bill 6011. This is a bill of law, colleagues, this is the last draft of the withdrawal, of inclusion. The bill is about to be called off. It's in one block. It's not a review. So I'm making myself clear? We're about to call it off. One minute. And then we're going to put 6016-d. Everyone, please come into the hall. By the way, I also want to inform the supporters of the 6016-d Law that in two minutes there will be a vote for him. I would also like to inform the supporters of amending the Budget Code and the budget that this will be the next issue. I'm asking for maximum mobility in the hall right now. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. So that's the logic. At first, 6011 -- calling off the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act. The repeal of this law is necessary for the President to be able to pass a law on anticorruption courts. The president of Ukraine publicly appealed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make this decision. This is going to be a vote. Then the 6016-d vote. And then refinement of the budget and the Tax Code. So now the maximum mobilization in the room is important. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? I request that the debate not be held during the vote. And I ask the Minister not to distract the deputies. So, are you ready to vote? I'm voting on the motion to withdraw Bill 6011, this is the draft Anti-Corruption Courts Act. So that we can get the President to pass his law. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote and ask for everyone's support, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[10:54:04]] For 235 Decision taken. This is an important decision, it opens the way for the President to draft a bill on anti-corruption courts and its consideration. And, colleagues, the last one is Barna, his request: 7410. Yesterday, a few votes were not enough. And I'm asking for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017. Yesterday, a few votes were not enough. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please. Support me, colleagues, it's just a day-to-day session: 7410. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Please vote for inclusion. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. [[10:55:08]] For-195 I'll do it again. So, colleagues, I will now, as promised, put it back to 6016-d. I'm asking for maximum mobilization in the hall, maximum mobilization in the hall. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Everybody ready? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to 6016-d, the draft Financial Audit and Auditing Act. And, colleagues, every voice matters. I ask everyone to vote very carefully. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. You're ready, aren't you? I'm offering to go back to 6016. Please. Yes, and vote. Let's go back first. I ask your support, and I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. Please vote carefully, each vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Colleagues, stop! Attention! Stop voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking Maxim to come. Colleagues, please come into the hall, take care. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, we have little advice. Colleagues, I'm asking for advice from the chairman of the Regulatory Committee. Please, Pinzenik. Please, Pinzenik's word. Please, Paul Pinzenick. Please explain the situation in the Supreme Council. Please explain how we can act in the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] I now invite you to serve as chairman of the regulatory committee of Paul Pinzenic. Please step away from the rostrum and allow Paul to speak. Paul, I ask you to explain how we should be in this situation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u37	Colleagues, I don't know if there's any need to explain how to be in a situation, there's a need to go back to the requirements of the Rules, which we'll see next. The review of the audit law has been completed. In the event that individual national deputies consider that the matter has been dealt with with in violation of the Rules, they have the right to make an appropriate draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will be considered and voted in accordance with the law. Thank you. There is no other procedure for the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u38	So, colleagues, please come into the hall. In this case, we have it. We now have an application for a break from two factions: the Radical Party factions and the Fatherland. They're ready to take a break. And I'm giving you a chance to speak. Who will act? Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! During the vote for the Audit Act, a colleague named Alexander Kugel voted nonpersonally: one of our very well - known deputies voted with six cards. We immediately informed the Head of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules. And it is your duty, Your Honourable Lord, to put to the vote in accordance with article 48 of the Law on the Rules of Part Four. I would like to warn you that now the price of a person's vote, a violation of the law, is destabilizing Parliament's work. If the requirements of the law are not met, the Radical Party faction refuses to participate in the work of a parliament that does not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u40	Thank you. There is also an application for a break from two factions, and they are also ready to replace. Please, Berezuq. Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u41	Eight million Ukrainians who now live in three million apartments in multi-housing buildings with no gas counters installed today have given us the mandate, all of us parliamentarians of this Parliament, to settle the issue of gas accounting today and without that decision. They said that none of the deputies should go back to their majority circles because they would then go to Christmas, block the streets together, and protect their interests with these people from the gas mafia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today, on behalf of many, as we said, 8 million people who have addressed both the address of the President of Ukraine and of all the factions of this House, and the Head of the Supreme Council, and told us to vote in favour of Law 5722 today. Unfortunately, Parliament has not been able to vote on a joint bill that has been drafted by the committee, but we still have it in reserve 5722, and it is for us to vote today. The proposal is to vote without discussion and forget, and to give people a normally settled question of gas accounting from January 1. Because on January 1, under the law, gas companies would come and just shut down the gas, demanding that people stand on the house counter of gas and that people forget about the apartment counters that give people justice in consumption. It's not a matter of politics. Clearly, someone here in this room is talking about money, for someone it's a matter of politics. But it's not a matter of politics or money, it's the normal peace and life of Ukrainian citizens who expect this decision from us today. We urge all of you to vote for the law today without discussion and to move on. Let's ask the Head to put it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u42	Time doesn't pass. Time doesn't pass. Time's running out, colleagues. Then make a deal, Mrs. Helena, make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u43	Both the factions that are here today, and all the others that can join and support, will block this rostrum until this decision is made. This mandate is now in all the open appeals of people to parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u44	It's a requirement of the Fatherland factions, Self-help, the UCROP MP and all the other healthy forces that. including the Radical Party, which all support this decision. Let's vote to solve this issue and forget about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u45	This is a question not only of the forces that stand here, but also of all those who were the authors of Law 5722-d, which was disgracefully overthrown. It's also a faction of BPP, it's a faction of the People's Front, it's all the people's deputies who supported the law. And today, we hope that everyone and others will uphold the law and make that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u46	So, colleagues, please take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, it is now in the order of the day-to-day resolution of disagreements in the text of the Budget Act and the Balance of Budget Revenue Act. If, colleagues, now. If you're thinking of speaking blackmail, that's not gonna happen, that's not gonna happen, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to keep busy. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! I'm asking everyone to take up jobs right now, after voting for budget clarification and refinement in the Budget Code, I'm going to propose that this issue be moved closer, but that will be after the budget vote. If you don't take up jobs right now, colleagues, it's just going to be the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we're just not going to be able to work properly. Once again, after the budget and the Budget Code, I'm going to suggest that we move the bill closer. Is that enough? That's enough, isn't it? Now, here's the clarification, and then I'm going to offer the hall to come back. How's it going? Then stay there. So, colleagues, I'm moving on to the next question. Now we have the next question about the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian State Budget Act 2018. This is a matter of security that the Ministry of Defense has addressed. And, colleagues, to us. It is not even a matter of discussion, but of vote. And now I want to remind you that on December 7, 2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole passed the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2018. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Proposals for the settlement of disagreements are given to you. If there's no objection, I'm asking you, colleagues, to record: two in favour, two in opposition. Please vote, please support. Please sign up for the performance. Jemec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the bill that is being proposed is intended to ensure the protection of our military personnel and to provide them with social needs. As we go into the new year, we have to understand that there are soldiers in the trenches who defend our right to drink a glass of champagne under the tree. And without them, we'd be completely under the fifth Russian occupation today, and we wouldn't have had the opportunity to be with our families or to celebrate the New Year or any other holiday. We have to respect their work, we have to provide them with proper equipment, we have to provide them with adequate social benefits. So I urge everyone to vote for the changes to the state budget and for the protection of our military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u48	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Vinnik Ivan Juryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u49	Good morning, dear fellows! I would like, above all, to address the Head of the Supreme Council, the colleagues of the deputies who are next to the rostrum now. First of all, I strongly support the requirements that you're making for gas counters in terms of gas accounting, with regard to, unfortunately, that conflict of competition of norms that you're creating if we don't vote on a project that didn't get votes on Tuesday night. I'd like to go to Andrey Volodymyrovich-Parubia for the purpose of somehow modeling the work now in such a way that right after the budget, we would go back to that question, and we would still vote and vote for this budget right now. A detailed budget for 2018 for military personnel. The point is that today, in connection with the End of the 2018 draft budget, which we voted on, there is a problem that we limit the Act on Social Protection of Military Servants, on Pension Insurance of Military Servants, and other persons who are exempt from service, including services at the Anti-Corruption Bureau, at the National Police, etc. Article 22 of the Constitution prohibits the restriction of any legal and regulatory act and the law. In fact, by voting the rules of the situation, as is now proposed in the draft budget for 2018, we limit the operation of laws that provide social protection for military personnel. We are now under an urgent obligation to correct this under article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Today, some 30,000 people are at risk of being released from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We cannot afford such things because of the tightening of the security situation in the east and in general with regard to the strategic development of the security sector in Ukraine, we need to address this issue urgently today. At the same time, I refer once again to fellow MPs, who are absolutely justified in asking for a solution to the gas counter issue, to return to the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u50	From the Rebirth Party, Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! I wanted to point out the following. With regard to the support of these bills, the "Rebirth Party" factions will support them as changes that can improve social protection today. But I wanted to add two other questions about blocking the rostrum. We also strongly support voting for this bill and, if, Mr. Head, you support, we also propose immediately after the budget vote, to support the demands of our colleagues and to vote in favour of deciding the fate of these counters, the instigators. Because today it is an urgent question. I just got back from Kharkiv. People are already groaning about the fact that they are not allowed to pay their bills according to the numbers they consume, and they count some figures that are not understandable today. So the problem is, it needs to be solved, and let's go meet those colleagues who are now in the rostrum. And the last. With regard to Bill 6016-d. We want to support the need to follow the Rules. If there is a question not of personal voting, we need to re-vote. And I want everyone to pay attention to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration on this Bill 6016. They write directly that the superstructure referred to in this bill is created in almost a corrupt way, and who will then control all this activity is not clear. So maybe we need to get back to the committee to answer what's going on there and what's going to be built up in the auditing system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u52	Thank you. I'll give the word to all factions. I now request the attention of all national deputies. Attention, colleagues! I have a bit of a strange atmosphere in the room, and I don't understand her conjecture. Yesterday, Tuesday, everyone witnessed that I, as Head of the Supreme Council, had done my utmost to pass the law on counters. Moreover, we held consultations yesterday, and we agreed that I would put him on transfer today. Was that so or not? I'm going to consult. And I said that after the budget clarifications I'm going to put to the vote the passing of the counting law. I am his personal supporter. And I put it a lot of times on Tuesday. And now I'm asking the hall to calm down. We have the votes both under the budget, and under tax clarification, and the transfer of counters. Only in order to do that is to take up jobs and vote. If there are other reasons, explain them. Because if that's the only reason, there are enough votes in that room today to be able to do both budget refinements and tax refinements, and to move counter questions. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u53	It's in tax, it's in tax. The longer we balance the hall, the less we make decisions. The faster we take jobs and make decisions when the highest concentration is in the room, the more effective it will be. So I'm going to ask you to finish the discussion quickly, to make a statement on the budget, then to clarify the tax, then to transfer the counters and vote for the counters. Supportable, colleagues? Supported. So now Oleg Valeriyovich Lyszko, one minute. Then Ivchenko one minute. Please. Then there's Ostrich's. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team insists that Parliament now vote in favour of decisions that address the social protection of military personnel. I'm talking to all my colleagues. Our military personnel were injured several times last night, one dead. And they deserve the support of the state, the financing of social needs. I see no more important issues today than defence, security, social protection of Ukrainians, primarily military personnel. So I propose that we now vote and settle, and give all necessary social protection to our Ukrainian military personnel, who today, in the ice, in the cold, protect the interests of the Ukrainian state, the interests of the Ukrainians. We continue to vote on the issue of social protection, including the right to reduce municipal payments for our people, millions of Ukrainians being robbed by the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u55	Please, Yvchenka. No, identify yourself. It's a cake, isn't it? One minute. Then there's Ostrika, one minute. And then. Colleagues, there's communication now. Please, Yevtushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u56	Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. I want to tell you right now why this construction is happening in the White Court of the Supreme Council. Because when the changes are made, Andrew Volodymyrovich will vote in the budget, we have no confidence in most of the long-standing fuel-fuelled aircraft, and they will leave the session room immediately. And people who don't have numbers by January 1st will not be able to do that, and they'll just shut down the gas. That's why we need to immediately put the Counting Act to a vote, by January 1st, to settle this issue for all the GMs, and the next, to vote on both the budget and all the other issues. And go back to voting under the Audit Act, where there was a record of defamation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u57	Ostrike, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, we are now considering the clarification of the Budget Act 2018. And I want to draw your attention to a few painful issues that are directly related to the budget, including this and the agrarian issues, this and the farmers' issues, this and the question of the limitation of the agriculture, which, when voting for the amending budget, were knocked out by lobbyists. And that's why we need to solve agriculture, agriculture, agriculture issues that today stand and protest against such restrictions that are introduced into the Tax Code by soybean, sunflower, rape, as well as the mandatory restriction of 150 million in the law in one hand for recipients of any kind of subsidies to make it impossible for several agroholdings to take all the subsidies on themselves. We also demand that medical salaries be resolved, that medical subsidies be increased, because today doctors are blocking roads in Sambora, Cologne. The following year this situation will take place throughout Ukraine. And finally, solve the numerator issues. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u59	I repeat, colleagues, if not all heard. Now we have two clarifications that we can take without a vote, it'll take about 45 seconds. After that. I'll give you my word, don't shout. Then I'm going to make an offer to move questions around the counters, after two votes on the clarifications. The longer we speak, the longer we debate, the less likely we are to solve this issue. From the Opposition Block, Wilcule's closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u60	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Let us at least for a time forget interfractional quarrels and politics and unite around the issues that people really need. The most painful issue, perhaps now being discussed by tens of millions of people, is the question of installing apartment counters for gas. Because otherwise they'll shut them down, they'll turn off the gas from the home computer. Dear colleagues, we support, let's move this issue to the hall as quickly as possible, better first, and vote for the installation of apartment counters, and support people, and move away from party issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u61	I'm asking you to speak in national language, colleagues. Next. Please don't make trouble in an empty place, don't break open the door. It's a matter of security. For the entire State, the security issue is number one. It's a military issue, a budget clarification. And once again, there's going to be one vote on budget refinement, then no discussion on tax, then on transfer of counters. Do not try to resist where there is no opposition. That's simple logic. Please, dove, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Andrew Volodymyrovich, if you don't know how to act, go to law. Our Ukrainian Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine clearly provides for the removal of the inaccuracies of the already voted law. I'm going to stop at the fact that each individual position has to vote separately. And I also want to go to some of my college students who are here speaking with flamethrowers, that if you have claims to a law that has been passed, please put in order of the legislative initiative the appropriate amendments -- and we will be determined by them. Because I also have a desire to increase the grant in Cherkaschi, and all the other major MPs have the same offer. If we're going to make extra proposals from the voice right now, believe me, it doesn't make us. Parliament's institutional capacity does not add up. Thank you for your attention. And I propose to continue the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u63	So, please take up jobs, there's going to be a vote. So once again, there's going to be a vote on the budget, and then the proposal to transpose the Counting Act. If you want to put the military at risk, I'm going to consider it a provocation and an anti-Ukraine action. I ask you to sit down and vote. Please take up jobs. Please take up your jobs. Please vote and then block. First, support the military. Please take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to remove disagreements in the text of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2018 (No. 700). Colleagues, please support, support, please vote. Support from the military, we've just discussed this. Please vote, please support, support the military, support the security sector. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:26:21]] For 280 Decision taken. Colleagues, I am now putting to the vote the proposal that we should move and consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (5722) on how to install counters to consumers of natural gas (5722) after the next question of clarifying it to the Tax Code. Is it accepted? Yes, look, colleagues, don't speak the language of power, because the language of ultimatums and forces will lead us to fail. Listen to me! Listen to me! Now, if you're an ultimatum language, one side won't vote for another position, and the other side won't vote for that position. Now I'm putting it to a vote, carefully, so that we don't ask questions about the counters, so that we can look at it after we've made it to the Budget, before. Then you are, if you think. This consideration of this question will take three minutes. If you speak the ultimatum right now, you don't vote for the Peter Dusty Block, and you don't get a vote. So I'm going to propose that we postpone the consideration of Bill 5722 so that we can look at it after we've clarified it to the Tax Code. Whoever supports this proposal, the gas counters, please vote, please support. Vote. Can I have your back, please? [[11:28:36]] For 281 Do you know why I say don't break in the open door? Because MPs who were not present at the time of the adoption of this law today show their great affection for the issue that everyone still supports. We have to go to work! And we would have adopted and forgotten that law on Tuesday. And don't do comedy here during the investigation. So, as decided by the Hall, now we're voting for clarification, and then we're moving on to the counters. Please take your seat. So, colleagues, on December 7, 2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole adopted the Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the balance of budget revenues in 2018. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. You've been given proposals for the settlement of disagreements, and you've all got them on your hands. And I am voting on the proposals that have been tabled to eliminate the disagreements in the text of the adopted Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the balance of budget revenues in 2018. Please vote, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u64	No, no, ask. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote clarification, please support, vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:30:21]] For 274 Clarification accepted. Colleagues, this opens the way for both the signing and the budget, and the Tax Code, and I'm going to sign them right now, and I'm going to pass them on to the President. Thank you, colleagues. We are now moving to the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (No. 5722). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure. [[11:31:10]] For 228 And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine BabakAlon Valerian. Please report as inflexibly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u65	Many thanks to Parliament for such an operational decision, and we hope that today we will be able to rehabilitate ourselves in the eyes of Ukrainian citizens. And it's getting better, which was in Law 5722-d, which was prepared by virtually all the political powers of Parliament, but which unfortunately was overturned, yet today we will be able to take into account in Law 5722. Law 5722, it was used as a base to 5722-d, so it's just proposed to support it in what it is, but with some refinements. In particular, we would like to make it clear that the deadline for the extension of flat gas counters will be from 1 January 2018 until 1 January 2023. Because it takes five years for all gas companies to finance flat gas counters through tariffs. Otherwise, if we don't, there will be no physical mechanism to finance their installation of flat gas counters. Therefore, with respect to the text of the law, add: in paragraph 4 of paragraph 1 of the first article 2, the digit "2018" should be replaced by "2023"; in paragraph 4 of the first article 5, the digit "2018" should be replaced by "2023"; in paragraph 4 of the first part of the first article, the digit "2018" should be replaced by "2023"; in paragraph 4 of the first paragraph, the digit "2018" should be replaced by "2023"; in paragraph 4 of the second part of the first article, the digit "2018" should be replaced by "2023". To protect the rights and interests of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u66	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u67	on the provision of individual natural gas counters, please adopt Bill 5722 as a basic bill and as a whole, taking into account the additions and technical regulations that have just been described under the transcript. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u68	Thank you. You know, all I have is a question about yesterday's ambiguity. If there are legal remedies, how did you want to vote without a discussion, without a speech, I don't understand it. I'm actually wondering how your proposal sounded. From the committee to the presentation by the representative of the LevaPidlisecki Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u69	The Committee on Fuel and Energy considered draft laws that apply. which, in fact, relate to the gas counters and these problems that people have encountered, because all gas companies set up their own and set up their own public building counters on their own, and this leads to an excessive increase in the cost of gas payments for citizens who live in buildings that are equipped with only gas plates. So we had on the committee a few bills that, when considered on the committee, were decided to form one of them as a whole, which was actually number 5722-d, but unfortunately, it wasn't adopted on Tuesday. So, taking into account the whole emergency situation and the problems that could be posed for millions of people from January 1, 2018, it was actually decided by the committee to support Law 5722, which Alona Babak had just said, and to support it as a whole, but with mandatory vote rights, which were included in Bill 5722-d. Now it's kind of a forced procedure that can save the situation. And in fact, the bill is supported by all factions and all MPs. That's why I have to. I urge everyone to vote and give people the opportunity to work properly and be with the gas since 1 January 2018. I would like to vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the rights described under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Rules allow that, right? Please, colleagues, do the recording: two in, two in. So I give the first word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u71	Dear Ukrainians! I'd like to explain what's going on in the session room right now. On Tuesday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine devoted an hour and a half to discussing extremely important billing for the establishment of counters. Please note how many deputies, including those who had just tried to block the rostrum and the MPs, were not in the workplace at the time. And then we didn't have exactly two votes to make this important decision. Now, there is no doubt that the coalition -- both the BP and the People's Front -- and the other factions that have woken up today are voting for this bill. But what happened in the hall today? At a time when we were to go according to the Rules, in the order of the day, and vote on two important bills relating to the budget changes in the defence sector, several deputies, once again, from two factions blocked the rostrum and put a real yes to the vote without discussion. What is it without discussion? This would mean that a bill would not be drafted for the year 2023. After this lamentation, the screams, the screams, again, the breaking of the rostrum came out here and said, "But, no, you have to come out, but you have to announce what you're talking about." Even though it was obvious that just after the vote, they would give the floor and allow for the proper presentation and submission of these proposals. And now these proposals have been made. And now it has become clear that this is to be discussed. That's why I'm calling you here. Please, let's make our last day of work this year productive and free of schizophrenia. We'll follow the script, but no schizophrenics. That's what I'm calling you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u72	From the Rebirth Party, Vasil was walking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u73	Vasile Guljavil, rebirth party group. The Rebirth Party Group is not blocking the rostrum, but the Rebirth Party Group will support this bill, because it is essential to people and will enable our people to save their lives. Let's vote and move on to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u74	Thank you very much for the design. Please, from the Radical Party. Now we're going to give everyone a word who signed up, who didn't sign up, even though they said we should take it without talking! Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u75	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The counter questions are certainly important. But let's not pretend that you're solving all people's problems, because the equally important question is the cost of a utility when 90 percent of your income is paid by a Ukrainian family for utilities. And if we solve the problem of counters without solving the problem of tariff cuts, it's lying to people. What does the Radical Party team suggest? Of course, counters should be set individually for each apartment to pay as much as it consumes. But what price do Ukrainians today pay for gas? When the cost of its own Ukrainian gas is up to 2.5-3 thousand dollars, and we pay 7200 dollars. And in Kirovgrad, he offers a 9,000-dollar lie for a thousand cubic metres of gas. Therefore, the Radical Party team demands that the authorities review the price of gas and install it objectively rather than rob people by tying the price of gas to the import parity. We're trying to increase the production of our own gas because the more our own gas is the country's energy independence, and we don't have to buy imported gas. Key: Energy saving. In the next year's budget, 70 billion dollars in subsidies -- actually for the preservation of poverty and addiction -- and less than a billion dollars in energy-generating money. People are told: "Go to the bank, take credit, change windows, doors, put in new boilers." He's not lending a bank. This should therefore be done at the expense of the state budget. Energy modernisation, energy conservation, increased own gas production, and the main thing is overcoming the corrupt energy market! Did you know that the NCREKP is again trying to enter the bill?Oh, my God! For each Ukrainian family to pay $400 more! We are against energy corruption, which has led to the blockade of Ukrainian citizens by enriching the oligarchs!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Maxime Chicken from Peter Dusty's Block. Mr. Maxime, first of all, you will be speaking, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! More than 20 members of the faction, more than 20 members of the faction signed under this important and timely bill. After all, this bill supports every Ukrainian family. This bill is halting the possibility of communal terror from enterprises of natural monopolies. I was recently at ours, in Dniper, in a hoax. You'd see what repairs they did there! The repairs are better than the opera house! What chairs! The flowers are red! It smells like gas from them! But they're terrorizing our people at the same time. And this law forbids them from one-sided setting of public-awake counters. Only individual for each subscriber! This will mean both quality, consumption, and savings. The faction supports, votes on the basis and in general, taking into account the rights that have just been cast. Let's vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, it's Fatherland. And then you have two minutes. Please. Yes, of course, I'm telling you, it's Fatherland. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm announcing. Look what's going on in the hall again. I'm saying, please, it's Fatherland. And from the "Paternity" sector, I signed up first or fourth. So I'd like to invite you. Well, really, let's all calm down. Please, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland. You have two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u79	Colleagues, this law regulates three standards and therefore requests that you listen carefully. This law prohibits, if at least one apartment refuses a general building counter, it is not installed. That's good and that's the norm. The second rule here is based on the cost of the corresponding budgets. Our amendment: You have no right to draw anything from any local budget. That's enough. Thus, the amendment is: In addition to the local budget. And the third amendment, which is the key itself. If the citizen has set up the counter – our next amendment – by 1 January 2019 he will be compensated for this standard at the expense of gas payments. And that's what the Cabinet of Ministers sets up. That'll be fair. Otherwise we're going to postpone again, no one's going to install the counters, 2023 is going to come up -- and once again, we're going to only get the house counters without the individual ones. So we ask for two adjustments, apart from the local budget, you've done so much for them that you'll just knock them out. And if the consumer has paid, by January 1, 2019, it will be compensated by the tariff he pays. It's the order of the Cabinet of Ministers in the law. These are the adjustments that allow and the counters to set up, do not set up the house counters, and justly compensate for the Kabmin's decision to set up the counters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u80	Thank you for the important adjustments. Let's move on. Several factions failed to register. Mr. Shahov, then Mr. Wilkul, and then Maxim Burabak. I announced you after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, 114th District, Luganshina, Sergiyshakhov. Dear colleagues, 95 wells have been found by people in the Lugansk gas - pumping area. As a national MP, I can't find out who owns these gas-extinguishing wells today, then sells them abroad, and then sells them to our country for 7 dollars. Please tell me that people are knocking and asking for the opportunity to do so today, and they are given a chance to survive those areas that are now practically already occupied by the oligarchs who are pumping gas out of these wells. Today we will vote and support this important bill, "The will of the people" will support it. But today's gas situation doesn't fit in at all. And I also go to the Cabinet of Ministers, to all law enforcement agencies to answer to who the gas belongs, to the gas wells in the Luhansk region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, it's Alexander Wilkul, you're welcome. Alexander Wilkul, you have my word. Perhaps something with microphones no longer screams, the microphones do not understand the human language, the normal decibels in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u83	The people of Ukraine, the Opposition Block, will vote in favour of a more important bill for people to establish housing counters for gas, because this applies to tens of millions of Ukrainians. And that's a very important social issue. And what's very important to us is that this law takes into account the amendments that people don't pay for setting these counters. These counters have to pay for the gasses, and these counters have to be on the tariff. People shouldn't pay for it, and it's impossible. The other one. We insist that our bill for a moratorium on rising municipal tariffs be introduced into the session room, on lowering municipal heating tariffs, on lowering municipal gas tariffs. Seven thousand are sold to people with Ukrainian gas, 300 percent of their profitability. Where is this money going? Corruption, of course, comes. So, dear fellows, we don't have a contradiction here with the counter question right now. But I remind you that all the five factions that are in Parliament today, they all formed a coalition, and they are all responsible for these tariffs, for raising tariffs three times, five times, eight times. But let us unite and support people now, and we will vote for apartment gas counters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Please welcome the head of the People's Front, MaximBurbak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of last Tuesday's events when we were looking at the same bill and we didn't have two votes. So I'm going to the authors of this bill. We'd work in the hall and add two votes, and then we'd take it. Then, secondly, I'd like to say something else. Dear colleagues, I thought the gas didn't smell, it didn't smell. And now I see that, yes, it smells like gas. And this amendment, out of voice, is that putting off counters and fines for five years is what, self-help to gas oligarchs or what? So I want to remind you again of Tuesday. There was then a vote in favour of a bill that had been drafted by a profiling committee, which took into account all the proposals made by all the factions. Instead, you are introducing today, creating a show on the last day to work on all advances paid by the gas oligarchs, and delaying the installation of counters for five years. Keep helping, Self-Help! The gas does not smell, but today it has a political flavor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u86	Self-help, please. From "self-help" who? I can't see. Babak, please, one minute. Helen, tell me, how were you going to do this without talking about voting? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, now Christmas fast, you don't want to talk about the image, you don't want to be angry, and I won't be. And I'm not even going to talk now that we're already self-help, I don't know, trampled, I don't know what else they've mixed with gas. Ladies and gentlemen, the five-year suspension rate is only proposed because everyone in this room said that gas companies from the gas tariff should compensate for the installation of individual gas counters. Yeah? Everyone understands that there are 3 million counters in flats at a price, so let's just say that they're going to buy, it's going to be about 2,000, 1,600 now the NCRE is counting, 2,000 dollars could be worth it. Is that an increase in tariffs? This is an increase in tariffs, I ask you?Oh, my God! But if the investment programs that are now going to be counted by the National Commission are going to require an increase in tariffs, is that going to have to be done at 2 years or better terminate by 5 years? Dear colleagues, let Parliament determine what the term will be – whether 2021 or 2023. Let me get this straight with you, but the proposal was solely to reduce the burden on the tariff from distribution. But we absolutely need to support the proposal "except for the financing of local budgets." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Two more non-faction requests per minute: Bezbach and Lechchenko. Please, Bezbach and Lechchenko in a minute. My colleagues, at the same time, I want to point out that for this minute, we essentially have three proposals. The first is the bill itself, which has one rule: since 2019. Second sentence of the reporter: Since 2023 The third offer by Sergey Soboljeva from Fatherland: from 2019. The fourth proposal is from Maxim Burbak, and so from the coalition, it's two factions that basically support it, the same thing. Mr. Maxime, 2019 is your year from 2019? Also since 2019. So essentially, we have to define ourselves in three positions. But we were pushed, blocked, voted without discussion, inexplicably for what. That's what we're talking about right now, and that's unfair. Please, Mr. Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u89	Thank you for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, let's not argue here, but let's vote. Why for 10 years we've been paying this on tariff counters, and now they're telling us there's no money. This is the first time. The other one. If the counter is on the house, there is no mechanism to distribute it today. And people who don't use that gas are going to pay ten times as much. Why is it necessary? Let's vote now, I beg you to let the people celebrate the New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u90	Please, the last one before PanLevchenko's summary speech, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of course, this problem must be solved, but for some reason this room refuses to solve the underlying problem. Where did this problem come from? And this problem came from the fact that we now have gas distribution companies that are private monopolies, private monopolies that act solely in the interest of getting the profits of their owners, oligarhat. So normally, a session room would be, normally, most of the national deputies would do what? They should regain control of the Ukrainian state over the gas distribution companies. And the relevant bill is actually in this sessional room, and we, the Freedoms, have registered an appropriate bill, and they don't even put it into discussion. So, yes, it has to be done, but it's another time-out. Now the question is going to be solved for a few months, and then it's going to continue because we have a monopolized economy. We need to destroy a private monopoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u92	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion, and now the position of the committee will be sounded. From the committee, I will give the word to Belkovi, so that she can sound a bill that will be able to unify the hall after this vote. Final consultations are now being concluded. Now I'm going to take the word of Ollie Belkovi, and then we're going to make a decision. I ask very clearly, under the transcript, for an amendment that could unite the hall during the vote. Please, Mrs. Ola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! After the final discussion, the proposal to support Law 5722, specifying the deadline for the installation of apartment counters by 2021. That's the first line. The other one. Exclusion from the text of the law from sources of funding, all sources of funding except the local budget. And the third thing. It is clear that compensation will be made for the natural gas distribution tariff for the people who install the apartment gas counters themselves. The procedure for compensation is established by the Cabinet of Ministers for Consumers, which will install counters during 2018, and compensation is to be made within 12 months. All of it. With this proposal, please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u94	All right. Is that a yes? Mrs. Ola, do you agree? Agreed, right? So the offer is agreed. And I'm going to put it to a vote with an amendment that Babak Olena Valerievna recorded. Please come into the hall, take your seats and get ready for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (No. 5722), as amended by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Babak Olena Valerievna, as a whole. Please vote, please support, with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[11:58:05]] For 325 The law is passed. All right, colleagues, what I was talking about half an hour ago, don't break open the door, we could have made that decision half an hour ago. So, colleagues, I want to tell you that at 12:30 I've invited to the Hall of Elders of Plast, the National Scout Organization of Ukraine, which will bring the Bethlehem Peace Fire to Parliament, and there will be a traditional foreboding ceremony at the Supreme Council for the transmission of fire from the place of birth of Jesus Christ. I hope that it's a little bit of an emotion in the room that's unknown why and how it came about, and we can work very effectively after the break and make decisions that are in the order of the day, colleagues. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u95	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Time spent for a break is over. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please, heads of factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to come into the hall. Our traditional ceremony will now be held for the introduction of plastic into the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. So, the break is over and, dear fellows, I want to remind you since 1986, in the whole free world, there's a beautiful forewarned youth action: Scouts from all over the world are lighting fires from a lamp in Bethlehem at the birthplace of Jesus Christ and handing it all over for every family until Christmas. This light is especially passed on to temples, hospitals, prisons, and children’s homes. Ukrainian plates spread this fire in Ukraine. It is a sign that they will bring this fire to the fore for our fighters and Ukrainian defenders so that soldiers who are far away from their families will feel the spirit of Christmas. And I invite the plastics to bring the Bethlehem Peace Fire to the Plenary Hall. Please allow the plates to enter the hall. And I'd like to welcome you with a round of applause. [[Applause]] Welcome to Catherine Krakhod's brief welcome, head of Kiev's Plast Center. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u96	Deputies! It has become an invariable tradition for sheettops to bring the Bethlehem Fire of Peace to the Supreme Council of Ukraine each year. For us as the largest youth organization in Ukraine, it is a great honor. The Bethlehem fire is a reminder of the birth of Jesus Christ and of the coming of Christmas. For us, it's a reminder of the warmth of the family holiday. On behalf of the National Scouting Organization of Ukraine, Plast, we express our gratitude to the noble Platoon, the man who revived the Plast in Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrey Paruba, for supporting the Ukrainian Scout Youth Movement. [[Applause]] We are also grateful for the constant support of members of the community — Victor Krivenka, Igor Guzu, Igor Greeniv, Ivan Krulk, and Jaroslav Markevich. [[Applause]] Thank you! We thank all the interfractional alliances that care about the development of the Plast in Ukraine. Your support is very important to us. We convey to the Head of the Supreme Council this Bethlehem fire as a symbol of love, good and unity. It is very important that this light shines today in the Supreme Council. May he warm you and give you Christmas joy!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head! As the head of the interfractional association, Plast, I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for the plastic day in this Parliament, the budgetary committee, all the deputies. You and I are spending five million dollars a year in support of Plast. This was the first year when these funds were allocated. I want to thank all the local administrations, both Lvivsky and Ravensky for their support, and Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you, Plast. Please, fire. Thank you. And let this Bethlehem fire bring peace, joy to this hall, and to all Ukraine, and to all the Ukrainians. Thank you. But, colleagues, we're moving on to the continuation of our agenda. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on the National Police’s Disciplinary Statute. And I want to remind you, we're in the middle of a block of second reading right now. There's not a lot of right there, and we'll be able to go to the parking lot before lunch if we act effectively and in harmony. And I hope that we can get through things quickly and efficiently. I'm asking the head of the committee of law enforcement to come into the hall and ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the hearing. Colleagues, as far as I can see. Pallamarchuk, please, please. We are moving to the draft Law on the Criminal Statute of the National Police of Ukraine (4670), which is next in order of the day. And I invite you to report to the committee's report on the law enforcement of Palamarczuk's activities. Please report from the rostrum. And I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u100	The Honourable Chairman of the National Police (Registration No. 4670), a comparative table of the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute (Registration No. 4670), prepared by the Committee for second reading, is proposed for your consideration. I recall that this bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of November 15, 2016. The project proposed the approval of the National Police’s Disciplinary Statute, which establishes the basis and order for drawing police officers to disciplinary responsibility, as well as the application of police incentives. The committee received 211 suggestions from the national deputies. In general, all the proposals from the National Deputies are aimed at improving the bill, taking into account the outcome of its discussion in the first reading and recommendation and the comments of interested bodies, such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Tax Police and scientists. The Committee's work on proposals and amendments, as well as the proposals of interested bodies and scientists, took into account, including in part, 102 proposals, 109 proposals. The proposals taken into account are partially corrected by the shortcomings of the bill, which, according to the rules of the Rules, can be corrected at the stage of preparation for second reading. Special attention is due to the need for a certain period of separation from the disciplinary statute of internal affairs bodies, which is extended to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Tax Police and the State Criminal Enforcement Service. Also with a view to allowing time for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Police to prepare and approve the necessary regulatory acts to take effect by the National Police’s Disciplinary Statute, three months from its publication. The reasons for the rejection of proposals by national deputies are found in the comparative table mainly in relation to the proposals made by other national deputies. The results of the process are taken into account and rejected. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on the National Police Disciplinary Statute (Registration No. 4670) on second reading and in general. So please support the committee's decision. And with the Chief Legal Administration, if necessary, we will deal with the editorial and technical corrections that will be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u101	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. And, colleagues, I call on right-wing authors so that we can get through quickly and effectively. I'm going to call those changes that are rejected, who are going to insist, will give me a signal accordingly. 1st. It's a pantyhose. Don't insist. Third. Welcome home. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 25th. Don't insist. 35. What's that? Olena Sotnik, please turn on the microphone. Give me an update first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u102	5th. 35th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u103	35th. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u104	Thank you very much. The amendment is applicable. I'm just going to remind our viewers and the people who are looking at us right now, what this disciplinary charter is all about. We've had police for two years, but there's still no disciplinary statute. And the idea is that the new principles for the new police should be laid down, including the order in which they should be held accountable. That's why my remedies are mostly designed to be a transparent mechanism that protected both complainants and police. This specific 35 amendment refers to the fact that the party may have the opportunity for those materials that are not closed because it can become a sub-legislative act, to familiarize itself with the material of the case, for example, to receive legal aid and to be protected from persecution for its position. So these are the basic rights that I propose to give to the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u105	Thank you. The amendment was rejected by the committee in connection with amendments 37 and 38. But I will put her to the vote, as the author insists. Whoever supports Amendment 35, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[12:46:12]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that there are now students from the village of Kriczylsk, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we welcome the students who are now in our hall. Good luck. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I will continue to read the papers and ask the right-wing authors to follow closely. 46th. Don't insist. 47th. 49th. 49th. Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u106	Thank you very much. And 49th and 64th right away, my corrections. These are amendments that apply to the ability of the police not to carry out a criminal order. I would like to remind you that during the Dignity Revolution, this is a very vivid example, if we had a disciplinary charter at the time, which clearly defines such possibilities for a police officer, I think there would be a very different situation. And here we are, and here I propose my amendment to make it clear that the order must be, must be legal, clearly formulated and must not allow for a double interpretation. This is in order to clearly protect the police, and they can identify the commander as giving them a legitimate order, and they can execute it or identify the illegality of the order and refuse to obey it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u107	Thank you. I would like to point out that this proposal was rejected by the committee because the committee believes it is regulated by article 8 of the Ukrainian National Police Act. But Mrs. Olena insists on voting, and that's why I'm voting on Amendment 49 first and then 64. The first is 49. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[12:48:07]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Now Amendment 64. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please. [[12:48:28]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next up is 68th. Turn on the Levchenkov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u108	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is about types of encouragement that can be applied to police officers. This list of encouragements should be complemented by a type of encouragement, such as the provision of additional leave. And I think it's important to determine that the list of outstanding incentives, the National Police of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is confirmed directly by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because there is a general norm here right now, para. 6: Encouragement by the leaders and encouragement by the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. This allows the Ministry of Internal Affairs to create any encouragement that will come from the brothers' ceiling. Encouragement is serious. In fact, the use of weapons is often used as an incentive. This should therefore be regulated at the level of a specific list that will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u109	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 68. Anyone who supports it, I ask you to vote, the committee has rejected it, please. [[12:49:55]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next up, 74th. Next, 76th. 78th. Sergey eustushka, please 78th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u110	Sergeyyyeutushka, "Paternal Motherhood" Level. I, Mr. Head, do not insist on voting on this amendment, but I want to say that the Fatherland faction will support this bill because it clearly regulates police activities. So the creation of this document is called a charter that clearly foresees how to reward police officers, how to apply certain disciplines to them, as it were? And 78 amendments show that the disciplinary status of the Ukrainian National Police after part three is complemented by some content. The presentation of the awards of the Ukrainian State Prizes, the marks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of the Police, who are taking part in the service, is taught in higher educational institutions, provided that the training provided by the police is provided by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u111	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? No, I'm good. Colleagues, let's move harder. 83rd. Don't insist. 85th. Don't insist. 89th. Don't insist. 89th, Leuchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u112	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The position of the project, under which so-called others are written, is that other police leaders apply to subjects who are encouraged within the limits of the rights granted to them by the police chief, not in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine that the authorities, their officials, are obliged to act only on the basis and within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine, not on the basis of rights determined by a certain official. This is an absurd norm that says "other police leaders." What are "other leaders"? So any manager can give it to you. He may have the right to apply any encouragement to his subordinates if so decided by the head of the National Police. So I propose replacing the words "other leaders" with the words "leaders of the local police." There'll be some kind of logic here, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u113	Thank you. The committee rejected it, believing that the amendment covered this existing edition. But since the author insists on voting, I am voting on Amendment 89. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down, I think. [[12:52:48]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next: 94th. Don't insist. 98th. Don't insist. 101st. Don't insist. 105th. Don't insist. 114th? 106th, now I'm going to look at it, that's 106th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u114	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It is also appropriate to provide for such disciplines as retention in the appointment of a higher office, the removal of an assumed name from the board of honor, as they are included in the list of encouragements. I mean, there's a point in encouragement that accelerates the appointment to a higher office or to get your face on the honor board, right? Or names. And there's nothing about discipline. It is logical, then, that discipline was the mechanism, such as the suspension of the promotion of a certain frame of service as punishment for certain disciplinary concessions. So please consider the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u115	Now we have 106 amendments to the vote, then you. Please, Your Honor, please vote for the 106th amendment now, National Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. [[12:54:34]] For-48 Not supported. Next up, 107th, Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u116	112th, because we're moving on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u117	Wait a minute, now we're going to get the text. 112, Mrs. Helena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u118	Thank you very much. 112 The amendment refers primarily to the ability of the individual who submitted it. or a legal person who has filed a complaint against a police officer to understand how his complaint is being considered directly, which is the result of this complaint, and in fact introduces an entirely civilized way when a citizen who applies this or another complaint or legal person can properly trace the results and can verify the legality of the decision that will be made on the basis of his complaint. So this bilateral participation is absolutely justified from the point of view of justice and transparency in police work. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u119	Please vote in favour of this amendment number 112, Mrs. Stotnik. [[12:56:00]] Z-62 I didn't get the required number of votes. Now we're going in turns and we're going to go to yours, 114 now. 113 for confirmation. Please turn on Mr. Berezuku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u120	We are now adopting the law that the police need. And we've just received information about police repression in the state. Mr. Vlad Marchenko and the head of the town faction in Zaporozhye Darya Truhan. They're arrested by the Kharkiv Procurator's Office and the Kiev Bureau, which is directly controlled by the President's Administration. Repressions in this country only take turns. This is horrendous and unacceptable. We demand immediate intervention of quality. Other law enforcement agencies that have been preserved in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u121	I take it this wasn't a confirmation amendment, it was a statement. Dear Mr. Oleg, we heard you. The request is that, after the bill is concluded, statements be made from the factions. Let's move on. 114th, Welcome home. Don't insist. Welcome home, 115th. Don't insist. Next. Irina. No, it's Igor Lucenko, isn't it? Or Irina Lucenko? Igor Lucenko, 119. Don't insist. Cooper. Don't insist. Leuchenko, 112th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u122	The bill says that the disciplinary commission is formed by police and police officers who have the necessary knowledge and experience to conduct an effective service investigation. Well, a general statement that will essentially make this disciplinary commission, which is supposed to control the police, completely controlled. Police chiefs, actually. It should therefore be established that public participation in the formation of disciplinary commissions is a duty, not a right, which ensures greater objectivity and transparency. It is also appropriate to add to the number of members of the disciplinary commission and to align the situation of part two of article 15 with the provisions of article 69 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service. So we suggest that the disciplinary commission be composed of six members: two police officers, two representatives of the electoral body of the primary professional organization, as well as police officers elected in general meetings, a conference of police officers of the respective local police body, and two representatives of the public who have experience in the field of government. This disciplinary commission should be a real commission that would really be independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u123	We are now voting for amendment 122 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. [[12:59:07]] For-44 44 national deputies were supported. No, you're not. Let's move on. The 123rd People's Deputies. 125th, Captain. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Amendment 125. Actually, my colleague Lewchenko and I are getting along here. I still think it would be the right thing to do, and that would probably strengthen, including the police, and give you a chance to strengthen and trust the police, if you were on these committees in case things didn't apply to the state secret or the disclosure of something. some information that, for example, is the secret of the investigation, that in such disciplinary commissions there was, however, such discipline. had the possibility of public participation, which directly exercises and monitors human rights while the police carry out their functions, and which would actually be able to protect, on the one hand, police officers from inside the possibility, if possible, and protect people to be honest in accordance with the complaints filed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u125	Your explanation is understandable. Colleagues, we vote in favour of amendment 125, People's Deputy Sotnik. The committee turned her down. [[13:00:46]] For-50 50 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Next up, 126th. Lechenko. Don't insist. He insists. Please. You couldn't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u126	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This amendment again refers to the formation of a disciplinary commission. And I would like to point out that unfortunately, we see that the session hall together, which is run by an oligarchic majority, has no desire to do, in fact, transparent disciplinary commissions in the police. We'll see as a result of the formation of such disciplinary committees as prescribed in the bill, we'll see further total approval when. If the manager "friends," let's say, with someone who needs to be disciplined, for someone who needs to be charged, everything will be fine, there will be no punishment. And on the contrary, when people who have done absolutely nothing wrong are going to press them, as they are now doing completely in manual mode. So these things are totally unacceptable, and I insist once again that the Supreme Council express its position on reforming truly transparently disciplinary commissions, not "handsome" as prescribed in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u127	We vote for the 126th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. [[13:02:14]] For-48 48 votes. There's not enough. Cooper, 139th. Is he insisting? Don't insist. We don't have much left, colleagues. Let us quietly go back to the session room, which is still in the towers. 151st, Captain. Don't insist. 168th, Captain. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. 168 amendments, okay, if you didn't even agree that there should be a public on the boards. But at least if we're saying that we're changing standards and that human rights and human rights are at the centre, including reforms, law-enforcement reform, then it would be logical, at least, a meeting, where there is no announcement or a public secret, or a secret investigation to open these meetings. So the public can come, listen, see. We have more court hearings open and are able to attend these meetings. Why, then, do disciplinary sessions need to be closed? This, once again, would raise the level of confidence in society in police authorities, in law enforcement. So please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u129	We vote in favour of the amendment of the 168 national MP, Stonik, who was rejected by the committee. [[13:04:11]] For-53 53 deputies. Your amendment is not supported. Next up is the national deputy, Elena Sotnik, 185th. Don't insist. Lechenko, 186. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u130	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The position of part four of this article, which states that "other managers apply disciplinary disciplines within the limits of the rights defined by the police manager", needs to be changed. Because according to the Constitution of Ukraine (article 19), the authorities of Ukraine are obliged to act solely on the basis, within the limits of their powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine, not on the basis of the rights or powers determined by the police chief. Therefore, the limits on the disciplinary rights of managers should be defined, not by the head of the National Police, but by this statute, since it is intended to do so. Again, it's the same as the incentives, and it's the same as the strings. You write this rule: "other leaders apply disciplinary disciplines within the limits of the rights determined by the head of the National Police of Ukraine." What a joke! So the head of the National Police of Ukraine has the right to grant the head of any level the right to apply disciplinary strings. It's totally wrong and it's actually illegal. So we suggest that we make it clear that these should be the heads of the local police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u131	186 amendments are now being voted on, which committee was not supported, Levechenka. [[13:05:44]] For-51 51 votes. Your amendment is not supported. Next up, 195th, Captain. Don't insist. The last three amendments remain. 199th, Captain. Don't insist. 201th. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u132	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is the last amendment I insist on. It's about the fact that we have a Soviet system here, and it's coming back more precisely, because there's still an announcement of the order for disciplinary engagement in front of the entire compound. I think we're still a civilized country in Europe, it's a surviving country, and we need to clean it up. But I would like to thank the committee for taking most of my amendments into account. We really tried to make this disciplinary charter as European as possible, on the one hand, to protect the police, on the other hand, to enable people to defend their rights in the event of police abuse. And I really hope that this is just the first step, and in the future, the police will become an even more open authority. Nevertheless, changes that have not been taken into account, particularly with regard to public participation, regarding the possibility of getting acquainted with the material of the matter, involving the complainant himself, will change in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Olena. We are now putting to the vote amendment 201, People's Deputy Elena Sotnik. The committee didn't support her. Please make up your mind. [[13:07:27]] For-54 54 votes. This amendment is not supported. Colleagues, the amendments that the authors insisted on and which were not supported by the committee, ended. In fact, we will now proceed to the vote. We will now give the floor to the committee's representative to the honourable Mr. Palamarchuk. I ask the session room to focus immediately before the vote. And, colleagues, please return to the session room. A very important bill, we have the leadership of the National Police waiting for this vote. This is the disciplinary charter, essentially the work of our new law enforcement agencies. And that's why it's important to support it here. I call on my colleagues once more to return to the session room. I'm asking the secretariat to give an announcement now that we're moving on to the first ballot after the break. And please, here's Mr. Palamarchuk's word for the summary of your statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, today we are adopting a bill -- this is a very important bill -- which will allow the National Police to encourage workers, and also to accept workers who work poorly, to engage. And that'll give us a way to put things in order, it's a police management toolbox, it's going to bring the order in. It's a very important bill, and I'm sure we should give it to the police. And I'm sure this bill will be adopted today. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u135	Thank you, colleagues. So we finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I would like to point out that in view of the faction requirement after voting for this law, I will once again propose to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Laws 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2. So after the vote, I'm going to propose once again that we put this bill into the agenda of the day session, which didn't get a few votes. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, and we're moving on to making decisions. Colleagues, I will reiterate my position that after voting for the draft Law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute (6740), I will once again propose to include in the agenda of the day session 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2. Heard the position? After the vote, I will re-enter the agenda of the day session. We can't stop the question. Look, we can't go back after another vote. If someone wants to overthrow the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is not only your political decision but also your political responsibility. So once again, after voting for this law, I'm going to re-supply to include in the order of the day session 7363. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Can we get to the vote? Colleagues, factions? The factions are all in place? I'd like to invite you to the hall. So I'm voting on the draft law on the National Police Discipline Statute (No. 4670) for the second reading committee and for the whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:12:01]] For-163 The decision is not taken. I'll put it back once, please go into the hall and take jobs. If there are no votes, I'll suggest that we send a second reading to the committee. Please show by factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 30, National Front – 70, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 15, Parenthood – 5, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 12. So, colleagues, I'll put it back once. If there are no votes, I'll suggest you return to the committee. So I put to the vote a draft law, a return to the second reading of the draft Law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute (No. 4670). Please support the return to the bill. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:13:12]] For-170. The decision is not taken. I think it's an unacceptable approach. Unacceptable, I think, is the approach when political debates are held hostage by the Ukrainian National Police. I find that unacceptable. And I'm putting a proposal to the vote right now. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute. Please explain your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! As you have seen, today a bill 7363 was put to the vote on deconcentration and the fight against raiding land relations. This is a law that really fights corruption in this area, which helps to fix the situation in this area, but unfortunately it wasn't supported in this room. So, in addition, as you've seen, today was not the day-to-day bill 6675, which deals with the release from the electronic declaration of civil society organizations of activists. Therefore, the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block requires that the daily Bill 7363 be reinstated, as well as the Bills 6675 and 6674, today vote in the first reading of the release from the electronic declaration of public activists. Thank you. By the time these laws are voted on, the faction of Peter Prashenko will not be voting in favour of any law in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u137	Thank you. Colleagues, pay attention. Attention, colleagues, don't shout. Since the situation is unusual, I will give each faction a minute to speak. So one minute now, Leonid Yemen, please. Then one minute -- Oleg Lazko, then Ivan Krulko. I'll give each faction a minute. Valerius Pisarenko. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni faction of the People's Front. I want to explain the position of our faction, which, first of all, is that we absolutely support and have always stood on the principles of decentralization. But there are rules in the Constitution that our faction cannot afford to transgress, and this bill suggests that local self-government authorities make decisions, including a change in the purpose of the land that is outside the borders of local self-government. Article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine makes it very clear that local governments operate within the limits defined by our basic law. Article 142 and Article 143 of the Constitution determines that local self - government authorities control only property belonging to their communal property. Unfortunately, the Constitution does not allow the bill to be adopted in this way, because the local self-government authorities have been deprived of opportunities by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u139	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u140	That's exactly what our faction is based on, which we, with all due respect, respect for the idea itself, but we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u141	Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, one minute. It's an exchange of thoughts, it's not a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, introduced a bill to the Supreme Council that empowers regional government administrations to manage the land. We definitely don't support this bill because it's about usurping power. We suggest that the land be managed by united communities, rural councils, and locals, not by President Poroshenko and his overseers in the fields and in the areas. So the Radical Party team has registered an alternative bill that allows for the land of a free-war participant in the East that allows for land for farmers, for small families, for those living in the area. Because they're handing out the land to the left, and they're telling the villagers there's no land. Therefore, our team does not support the bill passed by President Prašenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u143	Ivan Krulko of Fatherland, one minute. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Pisarenko later, yeah. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u144	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, I'd like to say that this was expressed by the Presidential faction, not by the position, but by the position. You can't get into a position where you really have to vote on the bills that are supposed to take electronic declarations from public activists today. There's a bill registered 6271, the author is Julia Timoshenko and a number of other national MPs who are in this room, let's vote. As far as the earth is concerned. The offer and the position of the Fatherland is clear: local self-government, communities should manage the land both within and outside the population. And we can't have the district government involved in this process. In general, we need administrations to cancel as completely unnecessary rudimentary in our history. Communities have to solve all their questions on their own, so "Paternity" won't support that kind of thing. And public activists need to be excluded from the e-declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u145	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement. And then the vote. Valerius Pisarenko is one minute. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to say that we are in favour of considering a bill that regulates land issues. And our colleague, Oleg Kulinic, has been passing a lot of drafts on this subject, but unfortunately, they don't get their hands on it in the hall. And it's a shame to see that we have one today, another faction coming out and blackmailing the hall to vote on a bill. Why do we need the Conciliation Council? Why are you talking to the Head, speaker, when you and I are setting up the agenda, if we can go out after that and say, "If we don't do this, then we won't vote?" Then let's not even ask about the agenda. We suggest that we complete the vote and move on to the agenda. And I also want to remind you that today there was a non-personal vote of 6016-d, and we didn't vote with you. So let's move on to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u147	Thank you. So, colleagues, before the vote, I promised that after voting for the draft Law 4670 on the National Police Disciplinary Statute, I would re-apply to vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. But whether you turn it on or not, that's the position of the hall. As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I don't have a "226" button, I can't interrupt the question, I can't ask it until it's finished. So now I want to highlight, especially the authors of the following bills, and I'll remind you, the next bill is about public procurement, and then we're going to have to do the parking lot. If we can't get out of this situation right now, it's going to mean that the work is actually going to be blocked. And then I ask all those national deputies who have asked me for parking applications to take responsibility for breaking up the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So now we're going to finish the 4670, and then I promised to re-position the inclusion of the 7363, 6675 session in the agenda, and the hall will be defined. Is this a fair position, colleagues? Righteous. Legal? Legal. Let's move on to making a decision. I would be very sorry if we had to reject the National Police Disciplinary Institute Act, which was prepared by the working group for a long time, because of political misunderstandings, because of political conflicts in the hall. So I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on the National Police Discipline Statute. Colleagues, please back up, please vote carefully every vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. [[13:22:16]] For-191 I'm going to put the next proposal into the committee for a second reading. And I'm asking you, colleagues, all to support this position. I suppose if we have to, we won't support this position, we won't be able to make any decisions at all. So I ask you to support the proposal: to the committee for a second reading. I'm asking you to get all mobile, and I'm asking you to back everyone up. So I'm voting on a proposal for a draft law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute (No. 4670) to refer to the committee for a second reading. And I'm asking everyone to support and support the normal development of work. Please vote, please support. Every voice matters. Please vote carefully, everyone, please take part in the vote. Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[13:23:23]] For 240 Draft Law 4670 aims at re-reading the second reading. Decision taken. Now, as I promised, I will keep my promise. And I'm proposing once again the inclusion of Bill 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2 in the agenda. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote on who supports this position. [[13:24:04]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Next, as promised, I propose to include in the order of the day a draft Law 6675. And Barney will be next. Please. who supports, please. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote who supports it. [[13:24:38]] For-163 Now. Colleagues, I'm about to draft Oleg Barney's bill first. It takes a very long time, and I'm going to meet you and give you my word. Tell me who it is. Say two. No, someone else. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, please, one minute. Oleg Barna proposes changes to the budget that will allow the cost of socioeconomic development, the State Development Fund, to be translated into the following year. Each of you has some funding — a social worker, kindergartens, schools. By the end of the year, this money will be returned and from the new year, the repetitive procedures, the resolds, and the repeated waste of time. Let us vote for inclusion in the day - to - day order, making decisions under this law essential that local communities have facilities that are normal for children to be provided with warmth, food, care. So that Ukrainians could live in their home and meet the New Year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session and, if possible, to take a decision on draft Law 7410 today. Please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[13:26:25]] For 190 Guys, I don't have a "226" button. And I will no longer bet and listen to these urges. Forty votes is not enough. Okay, I'm going to put 7410 in the agenda again. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:27:01]] For-187 187, colleagues. Colleagues, I've been approached by the head of the Peter Dusty Block faction. Where's Arthur Gerasimov? Colleagues, I have a motion for a recess. But it's important to me whether they take a break or they take a break. Please, head of the Peter Dust Block. They're waiting. They said they'd pick it up. So there's no claim, is there? Give me an application. Make an application. Colleagues, we have the following law: the draft Law on Food Safety and Hygiene (2845). And I suggest we move on to his consideration. And I invite you to the deputy's report. Is there a statement yet? Application for recess. Arthur, I have a statement to make. Now, just a second. My colleagues, by the way, I'd like to make an announcement while our debates go on, that there will be a 14-hour review of the movie "Cyborga" here on the second floor, on the third floor, in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm asking all the national MPs to participate in a movie that's never been seen in a movie theater. And now I've received a statement from two factions, from the Peter Prashenko faction and the Rebirth faction, about the half-hour break announcement. Since this time coincides with the end of the morning plenary meeting, now the eops for the second one, I declare not a replacement for the performance, but a real break for 30 minutes. And, at the same time, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I remind you that in the second hour, the film and the presentation of the film in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please all arrive at 16 o'clock in the conference room to continue the consideration of matters of order. Thank you, colleagues. I'll see you later.
