ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. I want to point out that today we have three ratification issues as well as social policy issues, a block. And so I ask all my colleagues systematically to participate effectively in the plenary session. Are you ready for your registration, please? Take up jobs. People's deputies please register. Please enable the registration system. I'd like you to sign up. Please enable the registration system. [[10:03:44]] There are 345 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies: Olga Vadimovna Bogoliac, Mrs. Ola, we welcome you with our birthday, as well as Anatoly Sergiyovich Matvienka, we welcome Mr. Anatoly. [[Applause]] According to the Rules, we have 30 minutes of public speaking on Wednesday. My colleagues didn't write me down, but they say it's Wadima's birthday. Very, Vadim, congratulations on your birthday. [[Applause]] Excuse me. Success and Strength! Vadim and all the other nouns welcome you. So on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes from the National Speakers. Anyone who wishes to speak, please record, and please sign up from the National MPs. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Litwin, People's Party, Zitomirst. In his lecture, famous physicist Richard Feyman, and the lecture was called "The Science of Airmen," he gave this example. A national island made forced landings. After he flew away, the natives from the branches, the clay, and the stones made a layout of the plane, but he did not take off. They began to pray to God, the white gods, that they would come back and solve the problem. So we do, we pray to white gods who will come to Ukraine and raise Ukraine. At the same time, the representatives of the white gods still remain in Ukraine, and from the master's side, our authorities have dropped millions of wages, and they are acting on the principle of "let's play, lice, tomorrow's bath." And people just get spit out of high-ranking cabinets. I think I've done more than enough examples. And there's another aspect that I think we need to address. As a mantra, calls are repeated that local budgets have an unprecedented income. I have a question, and I'm going to pass it on to people: if income is huge, why are hospitals closing down, why are they shutting down FAPs and outpatients? Why did they close the door? Think about it! - Internet for children with special developmental disabilities? An example. Doubian boarding house, 113 children We cannot bring them here, as we brought them to Kiev yesterday, and we made decisions under the pressure of these children. Five circuits are served. Where do these children go? The question is: Either there are no funds, or there are very few managers. I think the first and the second both have a place. I think we're all tired of talking about medicine. I'm giving you some answers. There are no crystals, only if there are funds will they serve those on the line since 2013. There are no Stant systems. In 2016, no one was placed in the Zitomirsk region. If they do, they'll be looking at the queues for the first class. The same applies to prosthetics so that children, children, I emphasize, can communicate with this world so that they do not remain deaf. For what time will this turmoil continue?Oh, my God! And the last. I'm just doing what I've been doing lately, like you fellows, to write off whether I'm part of a coalition or not. I have a proposition: either the Presidium responds to people so that we don't do correspondence, or I suggest, honourable colleagues, that we give the coalition once a day at least to work and show how effective it is. Because power has been usurped, the country has been divided, and there is complete absurdity in the organization of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u3	Keith Andrey Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! Keith Andry Bogdanovich, Stryshtyn, Jewish. I want to draw your attention to the situation that is currently taking place in the agricultural complex of Ukraine. As you know, for now, no factory in Ukraine is producing the ammonia saltpeter and mineral fertilizers that our peasants need. This is not a new situation for us, it is a result of the fact that we have in our country for many years created monopolies in every area of the economy of Ukraine, including in the field of mineral fertilizer production. All of Ukraine's factories now belong to one group, the Firtash Group. And in fact, we now have no alternative to buying mineral fertilizers in Russia. So we're creating a situation where we're helping Russia, we're still funding Russia, and we're not able to manage property that's in Ukraine. I find it unacceptable that the work of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which allowed the monopolistic market monopolies to dictate conditions throughout the country and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I find it unacceptable that all over the country, from small to large, paid 5 billion dollars in advance for ammonia fertilizers and didn't get a ton of ammonia saltpeter. Moreover, no one was going to give them these mineral fertilizers. We are on the verge of a very serious crisis and a breakdown of sown land. There's a group made by the Cabinet of Ministers that, I think, works now isn't enough, and in fact, we don't have a working mechanism to get out of the situation that is now happening. Therefore, it is appropriate to make a request or decision appropriate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to speed up this process and we have come up with some fundamental decisions regarding the continued sowing in the agricultural field of Ukraine. I want to say that the next question that I'm going to ask here, if we don't make a decision and the Antimonopoly Committee doesn't respond accordingly, I think we should listen to the report of the Antimonopoly Committee and see what steps it took over the course of two years to break down clusters in the mineral fertilizer monopoly in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Livik. National MP Livik gives the floor to Chumak's national deputy, please, Mr. Victorore.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! My speech today will be about political responsibility. The Ukrainian field in 2014 took place for a reason, as a very difficult form of government, which is today in Ukraine, it's called the oligarchic kleptocracy. When several families have usurped power in the country by usurping a monopoly on economics, politics, media, and media, they are implementing their ideas and activities in all spheres of public policy. All those of us who were with us in Maidan, all those who were sitting in WFP, in the People's Front, in Self-Help, in Fatherland, all the other political forces promised that when they came to power they would undo the parliamentary integrity and change the electoral system. Promises are still there. In his programme, President Peter Poroshenko wrote in 2014: "I will do my utmost to ensure that elections to the 2014 Supreme Council take place on a proportional system with open lists." Where? In the coalition agreement in section I, paragraph 2, signed by Peter Prashenko and the People's Front, Self-Help, the Radical Party, the Fatherland, it was written, "Let's do everything we can in 2015 to adopt new electoral legislation with open lists of regional preferences." Where? I want to turn to the citizens of Ukraine: this is how political forces fulfill their promises. To be honest, I feel my own responsibility because I promised the same thing when I was in the coalition. I sent a letter to Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, the president, two months ago. For two months, the President’s Administration carefully read my letter asking me to determine the urgent five draft laws that would change the political system. And I got an answer from Mr. Gerasimov's representative of the President in the Supreme Council, and I think he's going to take a word for it. Do you know what they said? In the law. draft laws, which are presented, are imperfect. Excuse me, my friends, it is our duty to make these laws perfect. It is our task to make them so that they can be applied. So let's do this, let's do as we promised the voters, let's start looking at the Laws on the Elections of People's Deputies: 1068, 1068-1, 1068-2, draft Law on the Temporary Special Investigation Commission in the interests of impeachment, draft laws on the elimination of the inviolability of national MPs (number 1766).
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u7	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u8	15 seconds. And number 5487. In addition, there is a very interesting Law on the Ukrainian Referendum to be considered, 2145. And there's Law 2343a that divides business and power. These are our promises with you to the electorate, let us carry them out, this is a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u9	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, National Deputy Lapin gives the floor to his colleague, National Deputy Teteruk. All the lines will be after 30 minutes of performances, okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u10	I thank my fighting brother, Igor Lapin, for giving me his word. Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! In one of the last airs, Mrs. Timoshenko wondered how I got into Parliament. I'm ready to explain it now. In 1990, during the Soviet Union, I joined one of the best command schools and took an oath in 1990 to the Soviet Union. After the contract was concluded, I took an oath, after returning to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian people. I didn't make any other vows. I served the people of Ukraine honestly and seriously, protecting the honor not only in our country’s territories, territories, but also in international peacekeeping missions. But at that time, Mrs. Timoshenko was in power, and she contributed to the cynical looting of the country, state enterprises, land, and so forth. It was she who played for the personal interests of the oligarchs of Lazarenko, Ljovckin, Pirtash and Onishchenka, signing cable contracts that made them billionaires and the people and the state even poorer. It was Tymoshenko and her similar kleptocrates that took the country to a state when Putin decided that we were an easy prey and began to benefit from Ukraine with our predatory cleavage. While Mrs. Timoshenko was holding the Ukrainian army in barracks, while she was holding the bloody hands of the fence, I, along with ordinary Ukrainians, thousands of ordinary Ukrainians left her family and went to defend her country on the front. I went to Parliament through the fire of Ilowaysk as a commander of a volunteer battalion protecting my country. And when, according to Mrs. Timoshenko's commission, the "Paternity" MPs are making numerous requests to the law enforcement authorities, trying to compromise me, they find him, he's gone. And for lying about the facts of my biography, you'll have to answer in court. And finally, we'll have to answer for the primitive lie. By the way, Mrs. Timoshenko has a great political experience of being "opposed to this country" is a literal quote from the dictionary of "The Fatherland." This is what vividly exposes Timothy’s political activity and its political power. You may hate me and other politicians who defend the country but hate Ukraine and destroy it no one will give it to you, and I will not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u11	Yes, the lines will be at the end of all the performances. Please, National Deputy Shurma will pass the word to a colleague of Mr. Vilkul. Please, Mr. Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! From this rostrum there are many political statements, accusations against each other, talk about anything but what bothers people. People are concerned about two issues, in fact, economic issues, because there is no wages, no work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u13	No pensions. This is the first time in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u14	Sir. I got you. Dear Mr. Wilkul, please, I ask you to honor the Ukrainian language, the national language, and speak Ukrainian. I'm addressing you as presiding officer. Thank you. Please. Please continue your presentation in English, I very much ask you as presiding officer, and the hall asks you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u15	People's deputies! Ukraine does not need a nationalist dictatorship, people need the right to peace – the right to life. [[B in m in s a l in]] People need the right to speak because they need to speak their own language. [[B in m in s a l in]] People need the right to work, to a decent pension and to pay. To that end, the economy must work in our country, and I will stress once again: our country does not need a nationalistic dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleague, I ask you not to inflame the hall. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that Mrs. Natal was speaking Russian in the same way from the Opposition Block yesterday. I made the same request to respect the national language and to make all the speeches from the Supreme Council’s rostrum English. Please, this is respect for the state of Ukraine and for the language of the State. We are the national deputies of Ukraine, not the Russian Federation. The Russian language can act completely peacefully in Ukraine, it can be spoken at home, in the towers, in restaurants, in the electorate, this is, please, and in the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has to sound from the rostrum Ukrainian language, all the more well spoken. Please, National Deputy Marchenko. He's giving the word to his fellow national deputy, Illenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u17	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, today I would like to talk about the very disturbing events that are taking place, unfortunately, in our country, because we see tremendous injustice, we see enormous double standards and a systematic campaign that continues, unfortunately, with the persecution of Ukrainian patriots, volunteers, people who saved the Ukrainian state. I would like to talk about two examples that have taken place literally in recent times. First of all, this is the situation with Gennady Dubrow, the Freeman, the man who volunteered to the front, who was directly involved in the fight for the Donetsk Airport, the cyborg, known as the invited Bizon, who was doing this on a voluntary basis. And in the event of his death or disability, he would not have been granted any official status from the state, but he was involved in the worst fighting, protecting Ukraine. And it's precisely because of his political, particularly nationalistic position today that he is being prosecuted by the "separate" prosecutors and the "separate" courts, which, according to other "separatists," accuse him of various criminal offences for essentially political reasons. And literally recently, the Santa court gave him six years in prison for totally premeditated accusations. The decision is not yet in effect, and there will be an appeal. And we state that we will be all possible means to protect Gennady Dubrov from these, totally unjust, politically involved, Ukrainianophobic accusations against him. I would like to say the same thing about another case that is equally loud: about Ukrainian musician Vasil Lutogo, who, at the time of the war, lived in the Luhansk region, supported Ukraine, came in April 2014 to the city of Rubizny to the pro-Ukrainian rally in order to defend Ukraine's unity. There he was attacked by separatists, physically injured, deprived of his will, tortured. And, imagine, after that, the local police opened a criminal case against him, saying that he had some kind of cold weapon, provoked something, and so on. And as a result, it's been three years since that happened, where today this Luganian militia (now the police) is still after him and wants to be put in jail for trying to protect Ukraine in the Lugansk region in April 2014. And from there, from the Luhansk region, they're sending some applications to Kiev to get arrested and convicted. It's just an absurdity, it's a frost that's happening. And unfortunately, we see that these so-called law enforcement authorities continue to run the same line. We'll protect Ukrainian patriots. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u18	Thank you very much, Your Honor. National MP Korczak gives the floor to his colleague Maxim Burbak, the leader of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I am the representative of the People's Front, Majority Electoral District No. 204. I would like to talk today about one of the most important reforms and the most successful ones, namely, the reform of the decentralization of power in Ukraine and the voluntary unification of the territorial communities. Last week we adopted a very important Bill No. 5520, which finally gave the opportunity to the communities that have voted and have the decisions to unite them to hold the elections. In my district is the city of Novodnystrowsk, which is surrounded by all the villages in order to form the Novodnystrian united territorial community. And just because we adopted this bill, we have the opportunity to hold elections there. Because now, contrary to the decisions of the communities, some rural councils and village heads are changing decisions, and communities are now required to appeal to the courts in order to protect their right to unification, their right to form a united territorial community, which will be an effective tool for local self - government. I would like to point out that after this union. Once again, money for street lighting is already being allocated from the state budget. Schools were built to pave the way for gardening. But now I'm turning to law enforcement. It's very convenient to throw up on Kiev and say there's corruption up there. Yes, it is. Yes, it needs to be investigated, it needs to be revealed, planted, and we have created NAMK, NABU, and other anti - corruption bodies in the higher echelons of power. But there are disturbing signals that corruption, along with the money we passed on, has moved to the local level. Very many outsourcing and capital expenditure are already making decisions about their use by local communities. So now we need to focus on testing these data because some of the roads that were made last year at state funds in places have already come together with snow. Thus, with the decentralization of power and the transfer of authority and funds to places, we transferred responsibility to places. And representatives of local self - government need to be aware that they too are responding. Because it is very good to throw at Kiev at night and to do our own dark work at night. So when I speak to all the deputies, I ask you to support this necessary reform towards the decentralization of power in Ukraine, because the communities have seen that they are being given back their powers, that they are getting their funding back, and that is a huge breakthrough for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u20	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. The National MP of Aresonkov is handing over the right to speak to his colleague, Mr. Rosenblatt, and a support group, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, from this rostrum, I am forced to declare another crime in the issue of amber mining. You know, the issue of illegal amber mining, it's not only in the forests of our country, but it's still being held in high offices. And one of these latest crimes took place in the State Department of the Geondar of our country, Mr. Boyarkin. So, on our question, what is the 21/12 Zitomir District Council? Think about it! – gave the issue of licensing, was answered in 20.02.2017. Why was this done? For six months, the district council had no right to charge these illegal licences. The licenses were issued contrary to all laws, without the consent of the district council, without the permission of any documents, because the termination was made in April, Decree No. 615, the issue of the uncomputed issue of licences. Thus, the people, the officials, committed a public crime. They have made a monopoly on one of the time - consuming companies that is registered in the city. in Hong Kong, foreigners who today have the right to unwarranted amber mining in Zitomirsk. Thus, I believe that citizens of the Zitomir region and virtually all of Ukraine have been robbed. Robbed, I repeat, by state officials of the U.S. Geonadar. I have here all the evidence, all the documents, all the practical articles in our country's legislation, which practically show that this was done in spite of all the legislative initiatives. Most importantly, the licenses are issued under the same license numbers. So there's one license number 4786 that was issued in 2008 for limestone. And under the same issue, No.4786 was released only in 2016, issued for amber. So it's done so that no one can see it. So that there's no possibility of being accused in a legal way and doing anything to really make these people, I repeat, have an illegal monopoly on amber production. Thus, together with colleagues today, we appeal to the Attorney General's Office, the President, to the government immediately to take all measures to protect the people of Ukraine! All people have the right to the navel of our country! This is enshrined in the Constitution. And no one has the right simply in such a baseless way to rob our people. Thank you! And please consider my speech a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u22	Thank you. As an MP's address, I'd like you to make this statement. And the question, colleagues, will have to prepare anyway, register properly. Please, from the faction of the Radical Party, the national MP Linko, to whom the word "deputy Chižmar" is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u23	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I ask a minute of your attention to take all the attention and the law enforcement organs, and all of you before that prank that happened a few days ago under the side, here, under Kiev in Desert Water. Under the authority of the Kyiv authorities, by the law enforcement authorities. I'm asking the secretariat to show now a video of a raid on the Jerello boarding house, where there are 200 displaced people, 60 of whom are children, 5 of whom are children of December. The raiders are now driving them out of the house where they have been living for three years. And we see the raiders in the yellow manikins, they're breaking glass, one of the people is hurt, Grandma, there's no sound video now, because there's a lot of abnormal language. People have been living without heat for 2 years, and five days before this attack, they were living without electricity. Kiyevenergo shut them down at the request of the Ranger Homony, who belongs to the former regionals and the Yanukovich gang, who are trying to drive out the displaced today. I am addressing the law enforcement agencies, the minister of internal affairs, the Kyiv City Chief Vitali Klitschka, demanding that similar attacks be stopped against the settlers, demanding that the Jerello boarding house be returned to the government. Because we made all the requests to the State Property Fund, to the Kiev City Council, there were no documents for the transfer of the utilities to the Jarello Hospital. This was because of an incomprehensible court decision. I want to draw the attention of all of you, the authorities and the government, to the problem of the displaced people, who today in Ukraine are almost 2 million, who live elsewhere, who do not have a permanent residence, to develop a program. The Radical Party every year requires the development of a program to help displaced persons, to finance housing for displaced persons. Because those coins that were set aside this year are not enough to allow people to live, to work to help Ukrainians who, through war, are forced by aggression to wander over apartments, in such boarding houses, and then they're being expelled by raiders, and the law enforcement agencies aren't protecting them. The Radical Party calls for protection for forced displaced persons. It's our Ukrainians, if we turn our backs on them, if we forget, and nobody in the room today mentions them, doesn't mention their problems, they don't have anywhere to treat them, there's no pay. Children in this boarding house are fed, they are prepared for food on wood, and they have five infants. So I ask you to consider my appeal to the law enforcement authorities to respond immediately to this violent situation of the saviour, to stop the raids. And the Radical Party requires the government to develop a targeted security program.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u24	Thank you. The time for the speech is over. Thank you, colleagues. Right now, the people's deputies and factions who mentioned the previous speakers have the right to reply. Arthur Gerasimov, I understand, does not take the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u25	They said there were two. Colleagues, speaking time complete, finished. Look at the board there are three 0's. The speaking time is over. Now, as the chairman told me, two names were mentioned: Arthur Gerasimov. He doesn't want a replica. And who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u26	"Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u27	"Paternality" requires a replica? Please. Vlasenko, 1 minute, replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u29	The word is given to Vlasenko. Please turn off the microphone now, I've announced my decision. Please, Vlasenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. Today, we heard attacks on the political party of Fatherland and its leader by some of the MPs of the ruling coalition. Well, you know, it's an old recorded record by Viktor Yanukovic, who is now using active power just as they use all of Yanukovic's methods in state administration, in state robbery and everything else. Their logic was completely understood. They raised the tariffs, the Fatherland's fault. They've frozen pensions, the Fatherland's guilt. They taxed the pensioners -- guilty again, Fatherland. I think we just have to look at ourselves more often in the mirror and it'll be clear and clear. But it's very interesting to hear it, on the one hand, from people who sat for two years in the Fatherland faction, and then they didn't have any questions, either to Fatherland, or to Timoshenko. On the other hand, it's very interesting to hear from a man who served for five years in the Russian Federation's army, took an oath there, and, according to some media, took part in so-called peacekeeping operations of the Russian Federation. So it's all very interesting and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u31	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u32	And all of this is absolutely obvious. I emphasize once again: you guys played Yanukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u33	Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And, fellows, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now, we have a cluster of questions on ratification of our international obligations, and I'm asking you to come into the hall, prepare for the vote, I'm going to propose a brief procedure, and it's just going to be necessary for the votes to be in the hall. So I want to remind you, now we have three questions from the ratification block. Please take up your jobs. In order to be able to get through them effectively, the committee recommends that they be considered in a simplified procedure, as well as by the authors. Please prepare for the vote. Please take up jobs. And we move on to the first issue of the agenda -- this is the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the 1989 International Convention on Rescue (0132). And I'm going to go to the hall and ask you to consider this short-term ratification. Please vote and please support, colleagues, please support, vote. [[10:38:10]] For-140. I'm gonna do it again. Colleagues, I'm now addressing the heads of the committees that we've spoken to at the meeting that we're not able to talk about all the issues that are on the agenda of the committees, and we've talked about something that can't be accomplished if we don't work together and effectively. And it's a little strange to ask for a whole list of laws, if we're simple, not complicated, not conflict laws, we can't look at the simplified procedure. It's all very simple, we now have three ratifications, and we agreed that the social policy issues that are supported by everyone, we can go through on Wednesday. So once again, I appeal to the National Deputies to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. So I'm asking you to take the positions of colleagues, get ready for the vote, and I'm putting to the vote once again the proposal to consider the issue of ratification (0132) under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please support, we vote. [[10:39:43]] For-163 163-yes. Decision taken. We are moving on to the debate, and I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Longan Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering the draft Law on Ukraine’s Association to the 1989 International Convention on Rescue. It is a convention of the International Maritime Organization that regulates the procedure for providing appropriate assistance to ships in danger on waterways and is initiated by the need to review the international rules set out in the Convention on Assistance and Rescue at Sea. So far 64 countries have joined the Convention. The convention will take effect one year after the date of receipt by the Secretary -General of the United Nations of the relevant instrument of ratification. The adoption of the draft law will help improve national legislation and encourage participation in the rescue of dangerous vessels and other property. In view of the foregoing, please support the draft Convention Ratification Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u35	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Chairman! Respectable citizens! It is now 175 years old from the birth of the brilliant composer Mikolia Lisenka, and we would also like to celebrate all of his contributions, including the song "God's Great, One" music. Therefore, colleagues, while returning to a professional topic, I would like to say to our consideration that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 14 March 2017, had considered the President's draft Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's accession to the 1989 International Rescue Convention and had approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole and to join the 1989 International Rescue Convention. The aim of joining the draft Ukrainian law is to harmonize the rules of rescue at sea to achieve the safety of navigation and environmental protection. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster also supports the adoption by the Supreme Council of the bill as a whole as a law. I would also like to remind you that the 1989 International Rescue Convention was adopted on April 28, 1989, at the International Maritime Conference, held in London with the participation of representatives of 68 United Nations countries and 19 international nongovernmental organizations. The convention does not apply to stationary or floating platforms or sea-moving drilling facilities when such platforms or installations are located at the site of their exploration, development, or extraction of the mineral resources of the seabed. So, colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the ratification of this International Convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in, two in. Please. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u38	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, it's an important lot of questions that come up on Wednesday after the ratification of international agreements and agreements. But I draw the attention of the entire room to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics, are inappropriately referring to their duties, because there is article 13, I remind you, the Law of Ukraine on International Contracts, which says that if a document is submitted for ratification to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is passed along with a bill amending the existing laws of Ukraine that bring the laws of Ukraine into line with the convention. It's a simple alphabet. In principle, if there were professional people in these ministries, right? - so they should know that apriori and understand that. It's not there. This convention, therefore, is not in its fullest form. I'm not going to give you a list now of those bills that conflict with the convention, and you can look at the conclusions of the scientific and scientific department, and there are some additions to this convention. That's why the Opposition Block abstains from voting because the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers have treated their duties improperly. And one more thing, about what happened today with the national MPs. I want to remind the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the rules of the Ukrainian Rules, which predicts that 30 minutes will be allowed to speak on behalf of the national MPs. 30 minutes by 3 minutes is a performance by ten Ukrainian national deputies. What the chairman goes on there gives an extra 15-20 seconds, right? - or half a minute, right? - It's his personal right. But when the speaking time has not yet ended, not to give the floor to the representative of the opposition bloc, I take it that this is an improper conduct to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this is an improper attitude of his as chairman of the opposition party, the national deputy. I'm paying attention to the Head and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u39	So, colleagues, there's only one person we're talking about. And we can move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for the vote. I ask that you inform the Secretary of the Supreme Council of the factions that there will be a decision-making process and ask that you invite all the deputies to the Hall. So, colleagues, please come into the hall, we occupy jobs. And I'm voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the 1989 International Convention on Rescue (number 0132). And I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal: 0132 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Colleagues, every voice matters, we vote. [[10:47:46]] For 211 I'll wait, invite the deputies to the hall, please. We cannot put international agreements at risk. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Not to leave the hall, but to invite MPs into the hall. I ask for a responsible response to international agreements. Fellows, may I bet on my return?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u40	Please, everyone in the room. So I'm going to go back to consideration 0132. And please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support the return to debate 0132. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues. [[10:49:02]] For 215 I'll do it again. I now request the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. Colleagues, in international agreements, we cannot share by any sign, we must resolve our international obligations. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I ask the secretariat and the Supreme Council, and factions to invite deputies to the Hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs, get ready for the vote. So, colleagues, everyone in the workplace? Colleagues, I'd like to vote from behind, and then I'd like to continue the discussion. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the International Convention (number 0132). Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please take your seats, and I ask you to maintain your return to 0132. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Return 0132, we vote. [[10:51:23]] For 222 Four votes. We'll wait for more votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't really understand how you can talk to each other when you vote, not take part in the vote. Please invite MPs. I'm asking you to invite deputies and take jobs. Ready, colleagues? So I ask everyone to vote, not to step out of the hall now, when every voice we count. So, colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act on Ukraine’s International Convention (0132). I ask every national MP to take part in the vote. Please vote. Please come back. Please vote. [[10:53:06]] For 223 Three votes! Fellows, I have a question and a reference to the heads of factions. Is it that I have one wish for international agreements to support? When they just happen in the back of the vote. There's a lot of talk and a solution to the questions. Is it only necessary for the Head of Parliament to carry out his duties? I ask you very much right now, three votes is not enough to make a decision, not to hold political discussions, but to invite MPs into the hall. I ask you to take your place and prepare for the vote. Please organize factions, invite deputies into the hall, and take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention (number 0132). Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote. Jaroslav, please vote. Vote, colleagues, for your return, please support. [[10:54:47]] For 228 We're back. Please, everyone, take your seats. I am voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention (No. 0132) on the proposal of a committee as a whole. Please, everyone, take a very careful seat, we are now voting in general. Why leave the hall, talk about the Council’s organization of work, and leave the hall? Please vote, please support 0132 as a whole, please support, please vote, colleagues, vote. Please support, every voice matters. [[10:55:37]] For 226 Decision taken. And please stay in the hall. Next draft of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on Technical and Financial Cooperation (0127). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:56:16]] For 190 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Nephrodov Maksim Evgenovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on Technical and Financial Cooperation is before you. This is the ratification of the agreement, which was signed on October 18, 2016, aimed at creating framework conditions for the involvement of financial and technical assistance from the Government of the Kingdom of Norway. A typical document made by Ukraine with many countries. The agreements define the following types and forms of relief. know-how transfer, training, consultation, supply of equipment and materials, introduction of new technologies, grant delivery. Mechanisms for agreeing on such technical and financial assistance projects, benefits, privileges and immunities for the Norwegian side as part of the implementation of such projects. Ratification of such an agreement will allow the full application of the legal and organisational mechanisms of cooperation between Ukraine and Norway and involve more aid than our foreign partners. Reduce the burden on the state budget in addressing economic and social issues. And start a series of important projects. Please support and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u42	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs on March 14th, when considering the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on Technical and Financial Cooperation, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted on the basis and as a whole. It is the ratification of this agreement that will simplify the rules and procedures for the implementation of programmes and projects within the scope of the agreement, namely, the provision, the wide involvement of international technical assistance, the development of technical and financial bilateral cooperation. What I'm saying is that Norway has long been a North European partner of ours for a long time, and it's been helping us in many areas that have already reached $800 million. And we hope that once this agreement becomes effective, Norway’s assistance will be substantially increased. I would also like to thank, particularly Norway, the government, for providing financial assistance, for providing grants, and for assisting our soldiers. But I would like to go to the government together, particularly the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, and the Ministry of Regional Development. We now have this phenomenon: limited ability to process international aid funds. And that goes for technical, grants, technical assistance, grants, that goes for credit. What does this have to do with anything? If we analyze the approved budget, the planned sample of open credit programs is 5 percent of the total volume, and when implemented it will be even less. So the huge question first: the ability of the government and our various institutions in general is that these funds are used for the benefit of society, for development, for periodic state monitoring and the rate of cost sampling, and for determining the reasons for stopping different programs. Because, on the one hand, costs are, on the other hand, inefficiently or very slowly used. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u44	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u45	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the agreement with the Kingdom of Norway is indeed an opportunity to receive quality financial and technical assistance programmes. However, it is vital that this cooperation develop into a real trade relationship with the Kingdom of Norway. After Russia’s aggression, Ukraine lost part of its assets, part of its markets, to its products. And today it is overwhelming to direct the efforts of the diplomatic institutions of Ukraine, the government, the parliament to find new markets for Ukrainian products. Today, it is critical to increase exports of Ukrainian products. Because today, without taking into account the agreements with the SND countries, Ukraine has only a special trade agreement with the European Union and with Canada, which we have recently voted on. However, in trade with the European Union, Ukraine faces very small quotas, small quotas, and a limited list of Ukrainian goods that can be delivered to the European market today. Consider for yourself: By January 11, this year, Ukraine had chosen all the quotas provided for by the special regime of trade with the European Union. At the same time, indeed, exports to the European Union increased by 7 percent compared to the previous year. But it is a drop in the sea against the backdrop of a total collapse in Ukraine’s exports during external aggression. Today, the real support of the European Union of Ukraine would be a significant increase in quotas and an increase in the number of goods that could be exported to the European Union. Because this is exactly what is needed today to increase exports. So only new markets for Ukrainian products will ensure export growth, job growth, and external and domestic investment, which in fact also gives stability to the national currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u46	Thank you. The Radical Party is Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The Radical Party faction certainly supports the ratification of the Agreement with the Kingdom of Norway on Technical and Financial Cooperation. But at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of all of Ukraine around the world to the next issue that will now be considered in Parliament, which will be extremely significant and will demonstrate not only the discipline in Parliament, but also the attitude towards Ukraine, security, Ukrainian interests and their protection. And there will be no excuse for the combatants, no one, no MPs who beat themselves in the chest and yell that he's a patriot and does not vote for the United States to make a direct military agreement to implement the Budapest Memorandum, he'll directly point out that they're "Moscow bastards" and they're working for the Kremlin. Whoever does not vote is the one who will vote. And talk, talk, anything can't get rid of this vote, because not voting for security laws can only those working against Ukraine, exclusively those working for the Kremlin, who benefit from diplomacy, diplomacy of betrayal and surrender of Ukraine. So, in addition to that, the Radical Party faction will require the publication of the vote on the next bill in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, so that every Ukrainian can see who and how it protects Ukrainian national interests. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u48	Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u49	I ask you to pass the word Alexia Petrovich Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u50	Thank you. The Peter Prashenka faction will definitely support such an important deal for Ukraine. This is about the implementation in Ukraine of know-how projects and programmes with the full support of Norwegian colleagues, the sharing of experience, the provision of expert advice and services, which will help to improve the skills of domestic staff. But more importantly, it's the material, technical and financial provision of all of these projects. For its part, Ukraine undertakes to exempt the customs and taxes of the goods involved, or services, and to simplify bureaucratic procedures for the implementation of these programs. So let me remind you that Norway, despite significant oil deposits, has become one of the revolutionaries of alternative energy, so at the moment, even the largest Norwegian oil and gas company is moving from oil to wind power. And that's what Ukraine's supposed to want. If their experience, their technology, is involved, you can radically change the situation of energy dependency and the inefficient use of resources in our country. Today, there are plans by the Norwegian company to build two solar power stations in Ukraine, but I am convinced that if this agreement is ratified, there will be much more of these projects, and this speaks of the attractiveness of our country as places of implementation of modern high-tech projects. This agreement is not just a strengthening of economic and partnership relations with Norway, but an opportunity for Ukraine to engage in advanced technologies. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko will support the bill and call on parliament to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall, and prepare for the decision. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Can we move on to making a decision? I therefore put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on Technical and Financial Cooperation, 0127, on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Please support the international agreement, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:07:53]] For 219 219. I see. I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Please prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. So I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway (0127). Please support the return to consideration. Every vote is important, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:08:57]] For 232 Decision taken. And I'm putting a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway 0127 as a whole. Please vote, please support in general 0127. Let's vote, colleagues. Carefully, every voice matters, please vote. [[11:09:31]] For 233 Decision taken. Hello. Colleagues, the next one in the agenda is the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America on Security Safeguards (No. 6111). Now I'm offering to consider it as a reduced procedure. If you support this proposal, please vote for the reduced procedure - 6111, please support. [[11:10:19]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ukraine deeply appreciates the adoption by the United States of America in 2014 - 2016 of a series of laws designed to support Ukraine. We hope that the comprehensive implementation of these laws by the new United States Administration, in particular with regard to the provision of defence weapons to Ukraine, will contribute to deterring the aggressor and laying the groundwork for future lasting peace. At the same time, this does not solve the issue of long-term security in Europe. Ukraine wants a substantial deepening of the bilateral security partnership between Ukraine and the United States. In international politics, there is a successful experience of such a partnership, "the main ally of the United States outside NATO". This status has been granted to both states that are at peace, such as Australia, New Zealand or Japan, and to countries that are at risk of war, such as South Korea, Afghanistan or Israel. In line with the spirit and the letter of the Budapest Memorandum and with the development of the strategic partnership between our States, we invite the Ukrainian Parliament to address the Congress of the United States of America with a request to consider making a defence agreement with Ukraine and granting Ukraine the status of "main non-NATO ally". The granting of the status of "main non-NATO ally" to Ukraine and the establishment of a bilateral defence agreement between Ukraine and the United States will have a huge impact on the cessation of Russian aggression against Ukraine, the deterrence of the aggressor and the prevention of the outbreak of the great war in Europe. This is in the interests of Ukraine, the United States, Europe, and the whole world. Please be supportive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u53	A representative of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Svetlana Zalitschuk is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We are looking at the proposed decision at a very special moment in the Ukrainian-American relationship, when our actions, on our part, on the right, on our proactive reforms here in Ukraine, will depend on the formation of a new geopolitical system of coordinates, on which it is not only our security that depends today in all of Europe. I want to emphasize that the fears of our "friends" that the United States has given up on the interests of Ukraine and are building a new U.S. axis, Russia, have not been justified. At the same time, I would like to point out that so far our expectations have not been fully met, that the new US administration will assume full responsibility for the further implementation of those commitments that we have made in the Strategic Charter between Ukraine and the United States signed in 2008 and also within the framework of the signed Budapest Memorandum. So today, we're talking to our partners in the United States and thanking them for a number of laws that have been registered since 2014, after Russia attacked Ukraine, seized Crimea and occupied Donbas to ensure that the new administration implements these laws with the provision of air weapons to Ukraine, with financial support. Similarly, we expect Ukraine to finally become the main ally of the United States outside NATO. This will correspond to the spirit and letter of the United States’ commitments under the Budapest Memorandum. I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u55	Thank you. Please record two in, two in, two in, please. He's the owner of the Motherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Fatherland faction certainly supports the deepening of cooperation between Ukraine and the United States of America. And, of course, we support this without a doubt, it was one of the ideological, political requirements of the Fatherland party -- the use of the Budapest memorandum. The only thing I'd like to do is go to my colleagues in the session room and stop sending messages and start doing professional work. You know, in front of me, the text of the decree that we are asked to vote now, 6111, and there, paragraph 3, we oblige the United States Department of Foreign Affairs to contact the United States Administration. I have a simple question for my colleagues: where is this going? Where's that? What is the United States Administration from a legal point of view? There is no such thing. What nonsense do we propose to vote on now? So by supporting, by supporting, the ideas set forth in this draft decree, we suggest that it be further developed in accordance with the requirements of United States legislation. There's a President in America, there's a Senate, there's a House of Representatives, there's a Congress, there's a branch of power. What is the United States Administration? Let's write in the U.S. government or something. So once again, let's speak professionally, not in slogans. It's on the one side. And on the other hand, let's professionally discuss what threats Ukraine can pose as the main partner outside NATO, whether this will not close the NATO perspective for Ukraine. So, instead of sticking fingers, you have to work professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u57	The People's Front is Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will have to support this decision because they have repeatedly claimed that our Western partners and the anti-putin coalition should finally help us defeat the aggressor country. And we'll be addressing any questions at any address. You're again, the previous speaker, he doesn't like the formal reason we're going. We remember how you said in 2014 that no soldier should leave the barracks. We remember that well. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why we should be yelling all over the world, "Help us fight aggression!" Because we are not only fighting for Ukraine: we are fighting for world order, we are fighting for Europe and the European Union, where we are going. Therefore, everyone needs to be consolidated and supportive of the decision. Our colleagues in the Western antiputist coalition also understand that we should only fight with them together against the aggressor. So once again, the People's Front faction will undoubtedly support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u59	Thank you. By "self-help" Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u60	Colleagues, of course, we support partnership with the United States of America, of course we support the need for appropriate partnerships, references and constant communication. But you and I have to admit that the last three years have actually been lost in the Minsk process. We didn't do any constructive work to combat aggression with the Russian Federation. What is the protection of national interests? It's a constant piece of work. But above all, it is the responsibility and awareness of these national interests. It is simple, but it is understandable to communicate these interests with your partners. We are grateful to the United States that they have been this reliable partner for the past 25 years for Ukraine. But now is the time for us to grow up, when we must become mature. You know, I've been to Washington recently, and the Americans themselves have given us very simple advice: you have to be very specific, you have to be very logical and clearly aware of what you need and what the consequences are. So I propose that this request be processed from the point of view of Ukraine's interests and that it be made very clear if so. More specifically, the request. If we are talking about what we need to adopt the Sanctions Act, for our part, we need to talk about the fact that we are finally banning the transit of goods with occupied territories. If we say that the Budapest Memorandum needs to be implemented, for our part, we clearly say that we are ready and accept the Act on Occupied Areas. If we're talking about today's need for military support, we're putting an end to the corrupt practices of Ucrobanprom and building transparent conditions for military procurement and military industry. Just like that: adult demands, adult commitments, and that’s all you can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u61	How much? Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u62	It is only under such circumstances that we can approach the United States by showing our maturity and awareness of our own national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u63	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u64	Please hand over Hani Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, effective foreign policy is not possible without successful transformations within the country, it is not possible without our joint work with you that diplomats who are protecting us with you, who are seeking to increase funding for the Ukrainian army, who demand increased sanctions that require a consolidated position, are armed with the most powerful arguments that within the country: Parliament, government, President, in the fields, all working together, working as one national team. Why did we initiate this appeal now, and what exactly are we asking? We ask to deepen the bilateral security partnership between Ukraine and the United States, we want the United States to make Ukraine a major ally of the United States outside NATO, because we clearly understand that meeting NATO criteria, reforming the security and defence sectors, that's still a long way to go, and there is an important role in Parliament. Where is parliamentary control of the security and defence sector? Where are the laws that we need to adopt? That's a question for us. And I think we need to divide the homework that we have to do here and discuss, and the way we represent Ukraine in independence from our political parties, from our narrow interests, because we represent the state, we represent the people of Ukraine, and it's very important. Given that we are now seeing the formation of the new United States Administration, there are still many positions that will determine the policy of the United States of America in the external sphere of Ukraine, Russia, that are not defined. And that's why we need to take a proactive position. I agree with colleagues from different parties that we should speak in terms of the pragmatism of our national interests as subjects. And to that end, on Friday, the Foreign Affairs Committee is discussing what to do with the occupied territories in order to get us into new realities after the blockade, after the conflict has actually begun to freeze, after so many and internationalists don't know what to do, we here in Parliament, finally in the parliamentary-presidential republic have given an answer, and what strategy about Donbas, as we return it, how we fight for our territorial integrity and how we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u66	Please, 30 seconds. Ah, they're done, aren't they? So please, Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! You know the world wasn't ready for Russian aggression. That is why neither the Budapest Memorandum nor the UN Statute worked. And what Ukraine has done, what Ukrainian volunteers have done, what the Armed Forces have done, by stopping Russian aggression, is actually allowing Ukraine to speak in completely different positions today. We are finally able to get out of the status of the object and move on to the status of the subject, since without Ukraine a new world security order is in principle impossible. Those who communicate with representatives of the United States government understand this very well. And they know how much the United States, the United States Government, understands the importance of Ukraine as a state and the importance of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to maintain and build a new, perhaps secure order. Also, I think that those who communicate know how interested the United States Government is in deepening this cooperation. But to deepen this cooperation, it takes a lot on our part, which has not been done in the last three years. I think you know that the United States Government is interested in investing in the Ukrainian defence industry. But, on our side, where is the reform of the Ucroborprom? Where is the elimination of corruption schemes? We need to change the principles and production of defence, defense industry, and purchase in the area of security and defence. We need a transparent defence budget, we need civilian parliamentary control of the security and defence sector, without it there will be no other help. And the main thing. Do you know what we should do? We need to allow the possibility to create conditions for the Ukrainian Armed Forces to have sufficient legal grounds to protect ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u68	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u69	This means that we need to adopt the Law on Temporary Occupied Territory, protect our soldiers, and make their work worthy and secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u70	Andrew Illenko, 1 minute, and Barney, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u71	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to say that this is certainly the right decision. And once upon a time, Freedom said that we needed direct contracts with our guarantors under the Budapest Memorandum, with the United States of America, with Britain. Because we understand that in this way we can actually form an external political alliance that will help us defend our sovereignty. And today, of course, I urge all deputies to vote in favour of this decision. It's going to be very indicative of who will vote, because I think that's exactly what they're doing, they're showing our specific proposals to our partners, how we can act in this situation, not general phrases, not utopian projects, but very specific proposals that we can use in our external policy. So I urge the Supreme Council to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u72	Colleagues, pay attention! Not a little, okay, ma'am. Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you very much, please keep justice in mind on a very different matter when it comes to consideration. We haven't heard from the Radical Party factions, you know. Comrade Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u73	The request is simple (please excuse me, Mr. Olege), when a member of the faction is recorded, giving a statement to the deputy by factions, the nonfractional is always given the word. Because then there's a conflict with the faction that there wasn't a faction of B.P.P.'s ability to speak. Thank you. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u74	Thank you. So two minutes from the Radical Party. And, colleagues, in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat, and I'm asking the factions and heads of factions to invite deputies into the Hall, and in two minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process, and ask everyone to take up their jobs. From the Radical Party is Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u75	An honourable colleague tells us that our appeal to the United States Congress, where we propose to enter into a direct military agreement, to become an ally of Ukraine outside NATO to implement the Budapest Memorandum, you claim that this could harm our NATO membership. I want to remind you of the story. Ukraine could have become a NATO member if, in 2008, the then prime minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, did not block the receipt of the Plan of Action for Ukraine’s NATO membership. [[Applause]] Ukraine could have protected itself if then, in 2008, Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko did not block the decision in this Parliament to support Georgia, which suffered Russian aggression. Ukraine could have become stronger if Russian troops had killed Georgian old men, children, women, then Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko would not have sneered in Moscow with Putin and laughed at the aggression against Georgia. Ukraine could have become stronger if then Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko had not granted permission to leave the Sevastopol of Russian warships that fired on Batumi and Sukhumi in 2008. And if we had stopped Putin in Georgia, he wouldn't have come to Crimea. And when he came to Crimea, he had to protect Crimea, and Julia Timoshenko was no longer the prime minister then, but she remained the same "Moscow Zosula" because she urged against defending Crimea, urged her friend Putin not to provoke her, she urged her not to bring out arms, so that God, Putin, her friend, would not provoke her. We have to love Ukraine without words. And by the way, you haven't voted for an army budget in three years, your case shows you're "Moscow Zosuls."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u76	Colleagues. Attention! One minute, please. We found a way out of this colony that was. The "will of the people" group gives Barney a minute, and that's how it's going to be a fair approach. Please, Barna, one minute. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Everyone please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u77	Praise Jesus Christ! When we talk about the country's need for investment, I'm going to answer my self-help colleagues with the words of the Japanese Foreign Minister: "We're willing to invest money and business in your country, but we don't see what war is going on, we need business, even if it's party, social stability. That's what we call you." Yes, we need help and support from the United States, we need assistance and support from the European Union, we need to continue sanctions against Russia in order to be able to stop the aggressor. But next to asking for support, let's support Ukraine from the inside: from the inside -- from the parliament, from the inside -- from our government. Because when we start talking about the fight against corruption, ladies and gentlemen, let's go ahead and vote on the laws that apply to the specific confiscation. When we talk about the need to punish the Yanukovich regime, let's vote on the law on oblivion and when we talk about the defensiveness of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u78	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u79	I vote in favour of the laws that apply to safety and defense, not to run away from the hall. So let me start to respect the people, respect the country, respect the President and respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u80	Colleagues, as a result of the discussion, were offered an amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can give it to you. Who? Timishenko give you your word? To give Juliet the Volodymyr word? She's not in the hall. The faction was not mentioned, the name was mentioned, and I am ready to give the replica. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, only the name was mentioned, the faction was not mentioned. As a result, if we were to go to a session, there's no problem, I'd give a word for it, I always do. My colleagues, as a result of the discussion, I suggest that if the committee doesn't object, I address the committee, not the United States Administration, but the United States Congress. Are there no objections, colleagues? Then, with your permission, I will place such an amendment to the vote. Because I really think that this form of dialogue between Ukraine and the United States is right, and on time today. And I'm asking everyone to get ready for the vote, this is a warning that was in the bill, and I'm going to say out of the voice that the U.S. Administration address and the U.S. Congress. And I would like to ask you in such an editorial manner to support the decision of the Committee, which is supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America on security assurances (number 6111), with a readjustment instead of "Relation to the United States Administration", to indicate "to the Congress of the United States of America", at the suggestion of a committee. I'd like to support you on a general basis as well, colleagues. Please support, please vote, vote, colleagues, please support. Please vote. [[11:34:31]] For 225 Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I see, please, come into the hall, take up jobs, each voice matters. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 6111 vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for my return. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Please vote. [[11:35:05]] For 234 234, we're back. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America on security safeguards (No. 6111) with a bill of lading that I've read under the transcript instead of the Administration of Congress as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:35:41]] For 232 232-for. Decision taken. Colleagues, let's move on to the next block of questions that we have in order of the day. It's a block of social policy. I'm begging you now. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next block of issues on the agenda is a block of social policy. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'll be right back. Let us go to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on labour rights guarantees for those who held election positions in local self - government authorities in connection with the conduct of military service. — No. 3464. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:36:55]] For-170. Dear colleagues, I've been informed that Julia Volodymyrna is now ill and that she is not in the hall, because she is sick -- and I have to say this from the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is now sick and is in the hospital, right? Yeah, I reported it. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u81	Deputies! During the period from March 2014 to July 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made five amendments to article 119 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, which provides guarantees for employees at the time of their public or public duties, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which extended and improved the system of State guarantees for the preservation of their jobs and the provision of compensatory expenses for persons appointed for the term of military service at the time of recruitment. Yes, according to part of the second article mentioned above, by the day of their actual demobilization, the job is kept, the job is compensated from the average earnings budget at the company, the institution, the organizations in which they worked at the time of the appeal, regardless of subordination, the form of ownership. Payment of such compensations from the medium-income budget is made at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is important to note that these codes do not contain any warnings about any categories of workers and do not take into account the nature of election work in local authorities, whose duration depends on constitutionally defined terms of office. Thus, the term of office of the village, the city, district, district council, whose elected deputies in the next election, is 5 years, and the term of office of the village, the city’s head chosen in the next election, is also 5 years. In view of the foregoing, there is a practical need to clarify the content of article 119 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (as regards guaranteeing the city of employment for those who held election positions in the local authorities and whose terms of office have expired). The answers to today’s questions are acute. This is confirmed by numerous references to the address of the leading associations of local self - government agencies with a nationwide status: the National Service Agency, the Supreme Council, the Committee on State Building, and regional policy. In addition, they are mentioned above.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u82	Please, 30 seconds, right? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u83	This situation has exacerbated another problem with the protection of workers, other rights of local council members who have worked on a permanent basis in these councils. Thus, after the demobilization or termination of the contract that will take place later, the former member of the local council, who worked on it on a permanent basis, will virtually be deprived of the guarantee of his return to the job that he had undertaken before his election as a member of the local council. Such a situation seems unfair to the depot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u84	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! Dear Mr. Head! The committee considered the authors' proposals for a change of legislation a year ago. We propose a very simple change, along with the authors, to article 119 of the Laws on the Right and 33rd of the Law on the Status of Local Deputies, to the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. The suggestion is that if a local council member has been mobilized on the day of the completion of his term of office, he will be guaranteed prior work or compensation payments after his demobilization. It's a very simple norm. We propose to support this bill as a basis. I'm making an offer: to give a mandate under the transcript of the committee and the legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to introduce technical and legal remedies, with this proposal to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u86	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Please. Dubil Valery Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u87	Dubil, the Fatherland faction. I give the word to Sergio Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are discussing a very important issue of employment rights right now. I think that labour rights also apply to the issue raised today in the discussion of the previous issue. And here I can't help but point out the following. Well, first of all, you know, one fighting faction leader who was sitting in the Fatherland faction in 2008 and was silently voting for everything he needs, now, now from the rostrum, he's telling some stories about Timoshenko, that's the first time. Secondly, in 2008, when Julia Volodymyrna was Prime Minister, the Ukrainian government, using its own authority, decided literally on the first day to hand over tens of millions of dollars of assistance to Georgia to ensure that Russia's aggression was refused. So telling all kinds of nonsense and, you know, such cynical lies as the fighting leader of the fighting faction tells me, it's true, spreading a cynical lie is absolutely wrong. It's a completely public, open information that's on the Cabinet's website. Open and see the Cabinet's 2008 - 2009 Humanitarian Aid Order for Georgia. This is the first time. And a little bit, a few words, were mentioned here today often in 2014. I want to remind you that there was such a boy, Sena Yatzenuk, who was also the leader of the second faction, who, as prime ministers at the time, said that the Ukrainian army was incapable of resisting aggression. And at that point, it was absolutely fair. Yes, two weeks later, battalions were formed that were able to defend the Ukrainian state, but at the time of February 22 – February 24th in Ukraine, unfortunately, there was no. So let us speak the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u89	Solovy Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u90	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Clearly, the bill requires support, especially at this time. But in addition, I would like to point out that today, unfortunately, as a result of a year-long policy of non-supporting local self-government, we have a situation where in local self-government, the average wage today is within a minimum of 2, 2, 2 and a half, 3,000 dollars. Of course, this situation needs to be rectified, since the public service unfortunately gets gray with each passing year. And it's very difficult for us today to find motivation to engage in local self-government, in the government administrations of those experts who would be able to deal effectively with the challenges that there are today. And I think we definitely need to raise these issues in Parliament's walls and raise them, restore confidence in the public service and raise the status of civil servants. This bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u91	Thank you. Husak Volodymyr Georgiyovich is passing it on to the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we have now begun the question. Social policy. Unfortunately, today the issue of social protection of citizens is the most relevant and important. And now in the Hall, instead of considering the issue of pension promotion and indexation, in order to address the problem that exists today, the Pension Fund has to consider modernizing Ukraine's pension system, we are again addressing exclusively technical issues that are clearly not of the highest priority. So I would like to go to the entire room and ask Mr. Speaker to take the time, please, to include the issue of social protection, to consider pensions and salary raising, to consider the protection of the displaced and to protect the people affected by the opposition that is currently taking place in the East. Not to include issues that are strictly technical, which unfortunately will not affect the real situation and life of people in our country. The Opposition Unit therefore insists on issues of social importance: pension increases (the bill we registered), a moratorium on the rise of retirement age (the bill we registered), a package of immigration laws, a package of legislation for the protection of civilians affected by the war. And as long as our issues are still relevant today, we will not be considered in the Hall, we will vote in favour of technical, no decisive drafts, we will not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u93	Colleagues, I want to speak to you again now. We're going to have committee meetings today. I have introduced a bill amending the Rules, which stipulates that the conduct of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the committees will take place in the national language. We have to sort this out here in the hall. I ask the committee again to consider this question, and we immediately put it on Tuesday next week. I'm sure the Hall will support this initiative so that we can resolve this issue once and for all here in this room. So I'm talking to the committee: faster to give legal reasons, there are factions and so that we can put this question in the hall next Tuesday and solve it. It's not a state thought, it's the Supreme Council of Ukraine, colleagues! I didn't hear them speaking in Ukrainian or any other language in the State Duma. Colleagues, next word from the People's Front, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, you know, to call this bill technical, it's actually the tip of cynicism, because it refers to the very people who are primarily protecting our homeland today, and to the fact that it's technical, it's actually the top of the stupidity and level of collapse of some of our colleagues. But it's not about them, it's about the fact that this bill has been waiting for more than a year, and it was still registered in 2015, and it hasn't been two years since it landed in the Supreme Council Hall. The People's Front faction will certainly support this bill and urge all colleagues to act on the bill on their merits, not to discuss the world's problems and the problems of other relations that are in any political power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u95	Thank you. Colleagues, since Radical. And the "front" was just speaking, "front" was just speaking, Maxim. Yeah, they didn't come from the Radical Party. A radical party of 1 minute and we move on to the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall, and we'll have a decision in two minutes. Please, 2 minutes, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that yesterday the members of the Radical Party have registered a bill that is proposed as of October 1st of this year to set a minimum wage of 5,000 dollars per month. We are absolutely convinced that the only way to overcome poverty in Ukraine is to raise the social standards of Ukrainian lives, wages and pensions. 3200, the minimum wage that has been set since the new year, which millions of Ukrainians today receive, has shown that this is the right decision. And those who didn't vote for promotions for workers, for the needy themselves, for raising their minimum wage, are just enemies of the Ukrainian working people who don't know how to live on that minimum wage! As a result of the wage increase, we have overturned the income of the local budgets, the state budget, the pension fund budget. So we have to move on. The next step we demand from the government of Vladimir Groysman is to raise pensions! Half a million people in Ukraine are receiving less than a thousand dollars! Millions of people in their 30 ’ s who have been in their 40 ’ s have not counted their pension since 2012! We require the government to submit to the Supreme Council a bill to increase the pension of so-called social workers and to recalculate pensions for long-term pensioners. What a balance today and the result of social injustice in pension insurance! We're asking the government, or they're going to put in a bill to raise pensions, or the Radical Party faction is going to initiate the resignation of the Groysman government. Or retirement or retirement! We suggest to Parliament that we immediately support our bill and raise the minimum wage of 5,000 dollars a month. Millions of Ukrainians deserve a normal life.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u97	Yeah, there hasn't been a speech from Peter Dusty's Block. Peter Dustock's Block, Soloway spoke, didn't he? I did. Colleagues, I'll give it to you immediately under the next law, and I'll give you my word. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on labour rights guarantees for those who held election positions in local self - government authorities in connection with their military service (No. 3464). The committee's asking for support on the ground, colleagues. I'm asking you for a basis for supporting this bill. I ask everyone to take up their jobs because each voice has a weight in the voting. So 3464 is the base. Please vote, please support 3464 as a basis. Please be supportive. [[11:53:53]] For 212 Colleagues, I'll put you back. Please take up your jobs. Please come into the hall. Please, head of the committee, one minute, and please come into the hall for a minute. Dennis's Ludmila Leontievna, please, 1 minute. And I'd like to ask the deputies to come to the hall. I'll wait till everyone comes in. Invite the deputies to the hall, organize the deputies. Please turn on Dennis' microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u98	My fellow Members, I very much ask you to support this bill, which, yes, may have technical remedies, but for those of you who are now defending our Ukraine, who are protecting our Ukraine, it's money for her family when it's demobilized. And so I ask that I emphasize on the stage under the transcript: to give the commission of the committee and the Legal Authority to introduce technical and legal remedies and with this amendment to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u99	Thank you. We're going to have to go back now, so please come into the hall and take jobs. We'll have to go back to voting first. Please invite all the deputies to the hall, please take your seats. So, colleagues, please come into the hall, this is a bill that everyone supports. Well, don't leave the hall, take your jobs. You see, every voice is missing, my friends. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 3464. Please vote, please support the return of 3464. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:56:06]] For 230 230. We're back. Now, colleagues, I'm putting in motion a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on labour rights guarantees for persons who held election positions in local self-government authorities, in connection with the conduct of their military service (3464) with those rights that were issued by the head of the Committee of Denis's Ludmill Leontiyev from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the following technical and legal rights (No. 3464) on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues, every vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:57:00]] For 224 Well, colleagues, two votes. Colleagues, let's go through this again. Please take your seats. Colleagues, invite the deputies into the hall, take your seats. I would like to make my first suggestion to return to consideration 3464. And I'd like to vote back on that. Please vote. Please return to consideration, please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice. [[11:57:45]] For 232 232. We're back. And now I'm putting in draft Law 3464 with the rights that Ludmila Denisov from the rostrum, with technical legal rights on the ground and in general. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Careful! Please vote. Vote, colleagues, 3464. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:58:20]] For 229 The law is passed. Decision taken. And, dear colleagues, we have been approached by a request from two factions to announce the break, from the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party faction. And Irina Sisoyenko will perform. Please come to the rostrum of Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction wants to call your attention to medicine one more time. For the third month, with an increase in wages to 3,200, which everyone praises so much, the government has not increased the medical tariff levels. I'll tell you what that led to. This led to nearly the same wages for doctors, health workers, and cleaners. Think about it: an emergency medical doctor gets 2,600 bracelets per hand, and an ambulance gets 2,500 bracelets -- that's all. There are no additional funds in the medical subsidy for special working conditions, and there is no work in the medical subsidy. As a result, nurses in the children’s wards are released and employed by shopkeepers only because they pay twice as much. Qualified doctors are forced to go to private medical institutions, or to go abroad to decent wages, for they have to feed their families and cannot stand hungry and humiliated and work in state and municipal hospitals in Ukraine. The problem of the salaries of health workers is not just a medical problem. The staffing problem in hospitals in the district, the city, the district, the institutes of the Academy of Medical Sciences will lead to the problem of every Ukrainian, every government official, every national MP, including. So once again, I'm with the Self-Help faction, along with representatives of district, city, district councils on behalf of four thousand health workers whose signatures on these letters, on behalf of the medical professions, medical associations, I'm calling on the Prime Minister of Ukraine to gather together for one table the Ministry of Health, which is to actively decide on the issue of health care personnel, to gather the Ministry of Finance and finally to make changes to Ukraine's State Budget and to vote -- we as parliament -- in order to keep qualified medical personnel in our hospitals. And if the government doesn't think about people, think about yourself, because sometimes you can't get to the clinic in Switzerland or Germany, where most of you are used to being treated. So the self-help faction requires immediate action from the government, from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. I'm asking you not to allow a rally of people in white robes under government walls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u101	Thank you. I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u102	Colleagues, let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union "Protection of Economic Competition" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Leonid Kozachenko and John Miroshnichenko. We want an interfractional union of fruitful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u103	Thank you, colleagues. Under the Rules, a break of 30 minutes is now announced. And we're going to get together to continue our work -- I remind you, it's a social policy block -- in 30 minutes. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall at 12:35 to continue our work. I ask -- it's a matter of social policy -- everyone is disciplined to arrive in the hall at 12:35.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! Time spent for a break is over. And I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So, honourable colleagues, we have -- let me remind you -- the social policy cluster continues, it's a first-reading block. And we're moving on to the next draft law of the day -- this is the draft law amending article 31 of the Employment Act. (4577). And I'm going to vote on the motion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[12:40:31]] For-90 90 for. 90 for. And we're going to consider draft Law 4577 in full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambir Mikola Ivanovich. Please, Mikolo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u105	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Ladies and gentlemen, the bill I am introducing has been drafted for the purpose of implementing the EU Council Directive on supplementing measures and contributing to improving the safety and safety of workers with a fixed term of employment or temporary employment. The draft Act proposes that article 31 of the Ukrainian Employment Act should be supplemented by a rule that does not include public works defined by a list of highly dangerous jobs approved by the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of public policy in the field of labour protection. This will contribute to improving the safety and safety of workers and to addressing the issue of involvement in public works. The implementation of the draft act does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Stay in the rostrum, please. Three minutes of question-answer. Please sign up for a question. Anyone who would like to ask a question, please take part in the record. Krivenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u107	Good afternoon! I'm very sorry that I'm not on the subject of this bill. The situation that happened yesterday. A member of the People’s Movement, the head of the Malian district organization, was beaten for expressing political positions. And this morning, I was talking to the district police, the district attorney’s office, the head of the Malina City Police, the representative who coordinates the Malin Prosecutor’s Office, the district administration, the district council, the district deputies, and spoke at the session about the fact that it is not acceptable for political statements, even if they are flaming and perhaps cruel, that we should not let our hands go. And so that the investigation would go solely within the framework of legislation, so that the perpetrators would be punished, and that the situation would be free of social thought, because at night our activists from all over the country were about to go to Malin and somehow some other "water to cook." We did this work today. I'm asking you to make that call.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u108	I'm asking you to ask the profile minister about the bill. Your opinion was heard. Boo Please ask questions about this bill. We have speeches from deputies, we have talk from factions, and we can give general speeches there. Please, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u109	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have questions about public works. Please tell me, how much of the budget for today is allocated to the organization and public work? How many people are officially registered in Ukraine today? And what is the dynamic compared to 2014? That's a question for the speaker. And to the chairman, I have an offer. Andrew Volodymyrovich, I have an offer for you. Do not cut off the speeches of the national MPs selectively. Sometimes when the opposition block is out of the question, they turn off the microphone. When other fellow Members speak, you give the opportunity to agree to the end, and then you warn them that you will be expelled. I have a request: Follow the principles of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to speak on the subject of drafts, and I stress this to all of them both during the speeches and after the speeches. And I would like this to be a general understanding of the national MPs of all who are in the room. And please give the word to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u111	The answer. Give me the answer. Where is the answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u112	And the answer?Oh, my God! Yes, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u113	Yeah. Regarding public work, the funds are projected within the last year. And on the question of unemployment dynamics, today there is a decrease in unemployment rates compared to last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u114	You finished your answer, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u116	Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u117	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, one request if you answer the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies and then you cannot remember what it is, at least write it down. Because what Mr. Shurma asked you, you didn't explain in any way in your answer. I have a question for another plan. As far as you know, on March 20, 2013, Cabinet Decision No. 175 of Ministers ruled that these problems of public work related to the risk of life were already normalized. Explain in a normal, understandable language what the need for this bill is, why you don't have enough rulings today from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's the first question. And the second question. Given the government's coming out of this bill, I've come to realize that I've now taken priority over the government not creating new jobs, not jobs with economics and incentives, but public jobs, which you know, involve people with unemployment status. Please give me the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u118	First of all, the question is, why did this issue come up for public work? Today, there are cases where people who are not trained are involved in public works and work that is life - threatening. In order to eliminate this issue, we suggest that the question of where there is a danger to work and where there is a need for professional training is not included in the number of public works. And with regard to what has been settled, I would like to say that, as I have already said, the purpose of this bill is to bring it into line with European legislation, and in particular with the EU Council directives on measures to increase the risk of public work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u119	Thank you. Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich, for the report. And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denis's Ludmila Leontiyevna to report. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, our committee addressed this issue as early as July 2016 and supported it. Of course, today’s public work funding is at the expense of local budgets. They decide for themselves which, well, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has just been named, they decide on which jobs to employ them, these unemployed. And, indeed, there are cases, I confirm here that only the deputy minister, who is also a dangerous type of work, said. So the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced such a rule into the bill, suggests that public work cannot be defined by a list of highly dangerous jobs, because they need skills, and people do not have such skills. And the Basic Law of Ukraine – the Constitution – establishes that man, his life, health, security are recognized in Ukraine as the highest social value. Therefore, we propose to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u121	Please ask the co-conspirator. Please sign up. Igor Shurma, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u122	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Well, first of all, I want to look at what's going on here and say that looking at what's going on with the human resources reserve in Ukraine, that's a big problem. The Ministry of Health is headed by a person with secondary education and a diploma on higher education cannot be presented. It is very common that the coalition has sent people who are not always competent and understanding. I can't understand why you're an expert in your affairs who explained who's organizing and doing the public work, who's giving the money, isn't serving as a minister. But this question, for the government, is rhetorical. Please tell me the answer to this question, and how many people have been affected by work in dangerous conditions. Why is such a bill being adopted today? This time. And why did he lie there for a year and not go out in the hall if he was important? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u123	Please answer, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u124	You know, there's no work like this. Well, we don't have that kind of evidence that they do. But people’s appeals give us the right to say that people’s rights are violated when they are offered such public works as are dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u125	Next question, please, from Mr Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear Ludmila Leontiyevno, I have a question for a colleague. Well, look what happened. We know the reporter, he's Deputy Minister of Social Policy Mikola Ivanovich Shambir. In my opinion, this is the best Ukrainian specialist in pension insurance and pension insurance. Please tell me, is there not a deputy minister in the Ministry of Employment today, or a minister in person, so that, well, if you don't put a person on a list of issues that are not fundamental to him, which he is responsible for? And I would very much ask, and I am going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine not to lay down people to report the laws of those responsible and those who prepared them. I think it'll be fair and you'll back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u128	Your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u129	I think I have the same question: why isn't there a minister on the rostrum today? I think it's just a government meeting, he couldn't come. But today he promised to come to a committee where he would listen to the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Social Policy, and I will certainly ask him the first question that you asked here, why he is not here personally, and ask the question when the question of the Employment Act and the question of the appointment of the Head of the State Employment Service is resolved, because there is a person there today who is performing duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u130	Next, the final question from Yuri Miroshnick. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u131	I'd like to ask you a question as a lawyer. You have rightly said that man, his health, and his life are the highest social value in Ukraine. So in the context of that, I wanted to ask. Would you please tell us that our public works are required to help people get unemployment? And the second. If they are required to do so, whether they are paid for their average job in the labor market for similar jobs. Is that not a violation of human rights? When do people actually work for free? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u132	You know, when I was a minister of social policy, there was never a person who worked for free. And of course, that's what you're offering. And she chooses to be on these jobs? It is not forced labor in any way. They're public works. What? Of course, she is paid for help and public work. Remember, once there was a flood on Zacarpatha, and there were payments for both transportation and relief, and for the average wage, and for the blood. So this is going to be the public works that we need, well, they're just being offered to keep a person busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Ludmila. You can take your place. Now we're going to talk about the bill. I'm asking you to sign up for the Deputies' factions. Then we will have presentations from the national deputies of Ukraine. It's from the factions. Yegor Sobolev of Self-Help conveys the word to Mrs Sisoyenko, and, excuse me, Semensi. You can't just see from here, from behind the rostrum. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u134	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! This legislative proposal can be accepted, but in part. Indeed, they should not engage in social work that poses an increased danger to those who do not have the necessary knowledge or expertise. At the same time, employers, in our view, should be given the right to be invited to social work, which constitutes an increased risk, to those unemployed workers who have sufficient qualifications or professional training and experience in the past at a similar job with a higher risk. Employers are motivated to use public works because this allows them to reduce the burden on the wage fund, as this is partly offset by municipal budgets. The employer needs to be given legal opportunity to engage unemployed people in temporary public work with increased risks, which do not require business processes to create permanent jobs. Therefore, the second reading requires the provision of appropriate conditions and warnings that will allow businesses to engage unemployed workers in public works that pose an increased risk. Such refinements will also contribute to the childishization of wages and to the protection of the labour rights of temporary workers, as they will be extended by the legislative provisions of State social guarantees. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u136	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Of course, the Radical Party will support all the social protection bills. But let's be honest with ourselves, colleagues, that no social work will provide social protection for the population, because social protection depends primarily on the development of our domestic economy, depending on the model on which it is based. If our economy, as it is now, continues to be a commodity-credit economy, no social pay and social work will help the Ukrainians. Our task, the Radical Party's task, is to turn the Ukrainian economy into a powerful industrial economy, into an economy of a developed country, not a raw material trade, but a product to produce our businesses. Our main task is to give people a job and a decent salary, and to those who can't afford it, social pay. If we talk only about the taxes that we offer to our unemployed, not how to create new jobs, we will never get out of this closed circle. We'll never get through an economic crisis, nothing. We're going to be at some African Zimbabwe or some other country where they're going to take all the raw materials, use it, and it's going to keep shrinking the population, it's going to keep decreasing the number of Ukrainians. The Radical Party faction therefore insists that Parliament work on a new one. the new economic policy. Our faction proposes such a way, our faction proposes a number of bills that will bring about normalization in both the land and industry, and allow for the development, the work and wages of the Ukrainians. And finally. I want to address the government with a request from the Radical Party faction. We demand that by April 14 the government submit a bill to Parliament to increase pension payments. If this is not done, from April 14, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska will initiate the resignation of the government of Groysman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u137	Please, Mr. Nechayev passes the word to Michael Papiev from "The Opposition Block." Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u138	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! We have a plenary day today, and I would like everyone to pay attention to the essence of this law, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is a government law. Imagine, for today there is virtually no government law in the Supreme Council. Those laws that the government is passing to simplify their lives are passed through the national deputies of Ukraine, namely, government law. So, look, he's just today reflecting the priorities of this government. The government has set itself a priority on public work and, whatever the case, dangerous working conditions. So these are the jobs they do as unemployed candidates of science, engineers, teachers, teachers, people whose state can't provide jobs according to their profession and according to their profession. Instead of giving the government a bill on creating new jobs, stimulating the economy and many other priority issues, they are doing a formal thing today in principle. It's settled, and I've therefore asked the question, already settled by Cabinet of Ministers of March 20, 2013 No 175, they're filing this document to show some government activity. The document, yes, it is necessary to implement the EU Council Directive. It's a necessary document, but it's symptomatic that this is the priority of government activity. No, honourable national MPs, let's ask the government to submit, this government has passed the first bill establishing a fair living minimum for different socio-demographic groups, which corresponds to today's actual living minimum. Each of you can go to the Ministry of Social Policy and see, in accordance with the Housing Minimum Act, by the 20th of every month, the government officially publishes the actual size of the subsistence minimum. And to see that what the government has put in the state budget for 2017 is twice as small as what the government is actually publishing on the government's portal. All right, let the government do it. In principle, these, you know, this is how it goes: to imitate such violent activity. We vote in favour of this bill, but we urge the government to move on to resolving the issues of pensions and salaries that interest Ukrainian people, working for people, for the economy and for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! There was a chance for the factions to act as self-help representatives, the Radical Party and the Opposition Block. Are they desirable to other factions, such as the BP. Now, I've been asking since the faction. The People's Front, the BP, the Rebirth Group, the People's Will, who want to come out of factions? There aren't any. I'm announcing a record by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Is it? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. From the factions, and now you'll be writing from the deputies. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u140	Dear fellow national MPs! Let us not politicize in this room those bills that have practical meaning and impact on social protection in this case of our citizens. We have heard today that this bill is both from the deputy minister and from the committee's head, the very order of public work is normal. There's just been a claim that it's a government bill and that it's bad. And I'll tell you what's good, because there's going to be a joint task force with our government. Therefore, documents that come, including from national deputies, are a common, united position of the Ukrainian government. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction urges us today, National MPs, to vote and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Now I'm announcing an entry from the Ukrainian National Deputies to discuss Bill 4577. Please sign up. Please, Mr. Lensky, pass the word to Oleg Laszko, please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will support this bill, but I would like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to an extraordinary event. Almost two weeks ago, the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, asked to be considered an immediate bill that establishes responsibility for dual citizenship. The President proposes to deprive citizens of their citizenship and to bring them to justice by depriving them of the mandates of those Ukrainian national deputies who have dual citizenship and by freeing them from the public service of public officials who have dual citizenship. I emphasize: The president brought this bill to Parliament as an urgent one. At the same time, a few days before the President's submission, we registered with my colleagues Victor Vuk, Victor Halasyuk, our own bill, where we are also responsible for dual citizenship. We are prepared to compromise in order to adopt a harmonized bill in the room and to bring to justice the responsibility of depriving citizens, depriving them of the parliamentary mandates of those national deputies who have several passports other than Ukrainian. And what do we see? Parliament has been unable to consider the Presidential Bill for two weeks. Don't you think it's strange for the Ukrainians and the honourable fellow MPs to see this situation? I say that sabotage is going to be accepted and considered in Parliament by this bill. In particular, the bill was drafted into a committee headed by Gregory Nemira, a Ukrainian national deputy. This committee refused to consider the bill last week. Today the Nemira Committee does not have this bill in order of the day. I'm saying that this is deliberately blocking the consideration of a bill depriving MPs of their mandates, the dismissal of civil servants for dual citizenship. Why do they do this? Because Yulia Timoshenko has a friend — a gas corrupter, an oligarch, a thief, and a thief named Oneshenko, who has five passports. So Oneshchenko asked Julia Timoshenko to block the adoption of this bill in the Supreme Council. I am addressing Parliament's leadership: I demand, today, that we immediately gather, that we consider on the Human Rights Committee the bill for tomorrow, so that it will be in the Hall. If he's not in the hall tomorrow, that means that Julia Timoshenko, Alexander Oneshchenko, Gregory Nemira and all those who block the bill are helping people with multiple passports to sit in the Supreme Council and betray Ukraine. I demand an immediate review of this bill in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u143	Next, please, Mikhailo Golovko. Colleagues, let's honor each other in this room. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u144	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will support this bill – 4577 – on the employment of the population, which it considers necessary. And of course, it's the definition that they're removing the issue of heavy hazardous jobs from public works -- that's the right thing to do. And I would like to say that today the issue, in general, of unemployment and employment is very acute in our country. Official statistics say that more than 10 percent of us have reached the unemployment limit, and many Ukrainians are going abroad to find work to feed family and loved ones. The state doesn't create employment conditions, it doesn't lend small and medium-sized businesses, it doesn't create conditions for new jobs to be created here. I want to remind you that I am the author and my colleagues of Bills 5251 and 5258, which would allow without duty, without VAT, to import equipment into Ukraine to create jobs. But unfortunately, these committees. These bills don't go through the committees and they don't go into the session hall, they're blocked. Clearly, someone who is not interested in stimulating development in our country, so that Ukraine is not a raw economy, a raw source of Europe and the world, because 80 percent of our exports are just raw materials, we don't have high value added products. And that would add funds to the state budget, that would be budgeting and paying taxes, creating jobs, and that would be economic growth. We should finally understand whether we are a raw asset of Europe, or whether we occupy a decent place in the world, and we create high-quality goods, with final productivity, and with high revenues to the State budget. That's why we still call for such bills to be supported, and we think that today the state needs to review its credit policy. First of all, we need to remove the position of NBU Head of the Gontarevo, review the bill and lower this bill for our banks, and still restore confidence in the banking system so that banks today can give available loans, as in Europe today, which make up a few percent, 2-3 percent. And what the Ukrainian government is doing today is negotiating with the IMF, wanting to get a billion loans under 8 percent of the year, that's cabala, that's shame, that's destruction of the state economy, that's tying Ukraine to a divide, that's turning our state into a raw asset of Europe. That's why I'm so proud. We are calling for such steps, but we still think we need to bet on the development of the domestic economy, the creation of jobs and the development of industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, from Nechayev's Opposition Block. Passes the word Shurmi from the place. No, not Shurmi, she's handing over Dobrenkov, I'm sorry, Dobrenkov. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u146	Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear colleagues, there are a great many such puffs in support of this bill. Of course, the bill requires support in this room, regardless of the political affiliation of a member of the MP or group. A lot of the members of the former spoke about the need to support a domestic producer, about the need for economic growth in their own economy, but there's a small "but". This Supreme Council is the Supreme Council of Demagogs and populists. And unfortunately, the decisions that are made in this Supreme Council are made emotionally. There is no calculation when making decisions, no political competences are governed by MPs, and they call for support. Some kind of legislative initiative. And it's a very simple thing, by the conduct of some national MPs who demonstrate both in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and outside the plenary, we give a bright signal to investors that we don't need to go here. Our tax system takes up the last place behind the ease of doing business. The level of gross domestic product did not reach the 1991 level of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. For a moment, there were over 150 billion GDP. Now all we have is a debt of one and a half trillion dollars, and that's our policy. The policy of effective authority is to get a new tranche. We didn't get a billion-dollar tranche, it's a disaster! How will we survive? What alternative policy can we offer our voters? Can we offer an economic model for higher value-added production? And it's not just about repairing production, it's about actively looking for markets. What markets do Ukraine’s products have to offer? None. Because we can't find a council here right now because we don't have a stable and export-oriented economy. Now they're talking about we're exporting raw materials. Yeah, and we don't need the world anymore. Is our product ready for Europe? No, it's not. You see, the Association Agreement. You've talked a lot about the Association Agreement here. Do any of you know that she's unsettled because of the quota? All those commodity groups where the Ukrainian state takes strong positions are wheat, corn, agrarian production, iron ore, chemical production -- they're listed, they're selected in January, February, at best in April. No country awaits us with a high added value. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u147	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u148	That's why we need to carry out a very urgent tax reform, an economic reform that ensures structural change, in the structure of the national economy, through the production of the finished product itself, not raw materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u150	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm addressing everyone who's in this room today, and I want to show you what is the advantage of discussing the bill in full procedure. At this point, you can see the expertise of the deputies involved in the discussion. So let's think about our pre-election rhetoric as they went through. All who went to the electorate promised a social paradise. Everyone promised social protection. As soon as we enter the hall, everyone who has the first word at the microphone, this is a coalition, starts going on a different subject. So let's look at the professional level of discussion on today's issue. Does anyone even know what "civil work" is in Ukraine? They have nothing to do with the social work of times of depression in the United States during the Rockefeller period. It was something else. We have community work -- it's a system of local government work. And if today's legislative initiative is to create safe working conditions, then he understands that there are non-professionals who are unable to organize today's public works for the unemployed in safe working conditions. And right now, I have to tell you that public works are done at the expense of the State Unemployment Insurance Fund just for those people who are there. There's a second kind of public work, it's like an extra social security. It is held when local authorities spend extra money on public works. And here's the interesting part. There is an opportunity to engage those who have no income. These are villages, villages, cities, districts. This may even involve children in health camps, raising respect for their work, and thus showing the price of today’s earnings. And at this point, we hear from the government a warning: and these public works can only be safe. And you tell me, what kind of authority does it sit in employment funds, in rural, rural, urban, district councils, when it spends money on doing jobs, where there are risks to health and life? And the last thing I'd like to say is to our colleagues who are young in Parliament and who claim to be a professional. Public works have no relation to business. Don't be embarrassed, people good! Businessman, if he wants to get involved in work, it has nothing to do with public work, and he will first think about how to create these safe working conditions. And now, finally, what I want to say. Everyone swears loyalty and the social guarantees of the people. That's very interesting, the public works that are now in this room supporting how much he's going to gain in the voting room right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Oksana Prodan, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u152	Honorable Irina Volodymyrna, a respected colleague, is actually the right bill because he deprives those who are legally bound to do public work. At the same time, I am convinced that many situations where people are sent to dangerous jobs by those bodies that are obliged to do so are not available, and this is the right one, but not the most relevant one. We have in Parliament today, this is not for you, Irina Volodymyr, unfortunately there is no Andrija Volodymyrovich, but today we have a number of registered bills that create jobs in Ukraine that release from the corrupt component taxation system, a system of regulation of the economy that, for example, my Bill 5711, reduces fines for entrepreneurs, for employers, and these projects don't go into the hall. So I would like, of course, to personally support this bill and the faction supports it, but I would still like to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council those projects that are the most relevant that will ensure not only the protection of people's rights in the performance of public works, but also enable people to work and receive decent wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u153	Thank you. I want to point out that factions' leaders influence the formation of the agenda, so please pay attention to factions' leaders at the request of MPs to take their proposals into account in the formation of the agenda. We still have a minute to discuss. Please, Michael Papiev of the Opposition Block. Takes off the word. Oleg Lazko is only a minute away. It's over, it's gone. So, dear colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the session room, there will now be a vote in favour of a bill in which all the factions and all the speaking deputies have expressed their approval as one that unites the hall. Because, what's more, we're just going to vote on the basis. The Fatherland faction insists that they have not been able to sign up for the faction bill. And they also demand a replica of what was mentioned by the preceding speakers. Please, two minutes. I heard. And I'm saying the faction wasn't mentioned. Names were mentioned. The Fatherland faction insists on its performance as a faction has the right to do so. All I'm asking is factions, please sign up for the performance on time. And to all those present, please let us avoid insulting one another in our speeches. Then there will be no replication. I beg you, Mr. Ivan, two minutes. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u154	Thank you. Well, my speech, my esteemed colleagues, will refer to the lie that periodically pours from the mouth of a calf lover in this session hall. I want to show Bill 6131, who introduced this faction, which I'm ashamed to call out loud. This bill is scheduled for the committee of Mr. Knazević, the Committee on Legal Policy, not the Nemiri Committee. And once again, we have just witnessed how you can perform orders in front of those who pay money, those who serve interests, how you can just black out the faction of the Fatherland. I completely deny what was said about the Nemira committee not addressing any issue. In fact, my dear colleagues, I would like to remind you why this gentleman, a calf lover, was expelled from the Fatherland faction. It was because he voted against the faction's decision to legalize the Janukovich Constitution. The Constitution that restored the unlimited powers of Yanukovich. After which Yanukovic started a war in Ukraine and brought Russian troops here! This is what he did with his personal voice in this session hall. He was expelled for that. Then he served as one, and then he was told to vote that way. He now serves others. And it's because of this service that he's "plumbing" Julius Timoshenko, "plumbing" the faction of Fatherland. Why? Because he doesn't like the calves you all think about. He likes the golden calf. The one who's carrying the money he's making for the money. Today he applauds one oligarch, tomorrow he will serve another oligarch, and that he will pour dirt, because man is unprincipled, without morals, without any qualities. The only thing he loves is money and money and a golden calf he serves all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u155	Colleagues, the Front faction didn't speak during the discussion? Did the People's Front faction speak or not? No, it's not. Then please turn on the microphone, 2 minutes, Maxim Burbak. All factions have the right to speak during the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, we have here seen a brief discussion of the necessary legislation to increase social protection. I can emphasize that the People's Front faction will vote in favour of this bill. But there was a previous MP who looked so far into the past. So I want to remind them, too, that on February 27, 2014, as my colleague called it, Arseny Yatsenuk, the leader of the People's Front, received a fine of 108 thousand dollars when he became Prime Minister. In the 16th year, he left $90 billion in cash. It's so numbers about the past. And now I want to remind you that in the 2009 cabal gas agreements signed by their leader, our country suffered $53 billion in losses. Here's what I'd like to remind you of. And I'd like to invite her to help our country to stand down for this money in Stockholm arbitration, where I can tell you how they signed and quoted. Just being a witness, telling the world what they were forced to do, and sniggering then she's on camera with Putin. So if we look back, let's look back. And I'm sure Oleg Lazko, who also has something to say to him, can also refresh some young boys' memories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, please, we are considering a social bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a line, but I'm still asking you not to use these things. Colleagues, pay attention! I want to tell you, now this is a replica of the last name, two minutes from Self-Help, they're not speaking, and we're going to make a decision. And I now ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the Hall in three minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall, an important social law. Replica, one minute. All I'm asking is that we don't mention names or factions, we're discussing a social bill. Then there's Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u158	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, each of you can go to the Supreme Council's website and see for yourself Bill 6175 of March 13, 2017, initiator of the President of Ukraine, amending the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, scheduled for the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich. So, taking this opportunity, in the presence of the Head of Parliament, I ask once again, Andriy Volodymyrovich, you, to give an order to the Committee on Human Rights immediately today to consider a bill depriving the MPs of dual citizenship in order to conclude that there is a committee to see it in the hall tomorrow. I am addressing the Ukrainians, a two-week bill that the President's draft is not immediately being considered in this Parliament, because his consideration is blocked by the Grigory Nemiri committee and blocked because they have several passports and are afraid to be held accountable for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u159	Colleagues, I'll respond. In fact, this bill was considered at a meeting, including the heads of factions, and a compromise formulation was found that fully warrants a discussion of what it would be supported in the hall. And at the hands of the President, there was this discussion, and the President agreed to the formulation so that officials could not have any passports other than Ukrainian, and could get rid of them. My colleagues, I would like to inform you that what the Ukrainian Special Forces, the Ukrainian Army, were led by people with a passport from the Russian Federation, led to the collapse of the Ukrainian army and the aggression of the Russian Federation. We have to stop it here in this room, and I've been talking about this, and once again, I'm letting the committee take a quick look at this matter at the committee meeting so that we can look at this issue in the session room tomorrow. The bill is defined as urgent by the President. And, colleagues, I'm sure we can make a decision, and the committee will consider it at its meeting today. Please, from the Self-Help faction, 2 minutes, Ostrikak. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u160	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Frankly, I'm sad to be in the Supreme Council Plenary Hall today when I see that there's a whole zoo: calfs, zoos, cows and so forth. I have a lot of respect for all these good animals, and they really need our attention, but when we consider the Employment of Population Bill and the corresponding changes to it, we should think first of all, not about animals, but about their hosts, who need our attention. Why did people send us here? Consider that farmers are busy and that the Employment Act is in line with the Association Agreement. I would like to draw your attention to the bill that we are considering: the amendments to article 31 of the Employment Act. The bill proposes that changes be made according to which public works are not defined by a list of high - risk jobs approved by the central executive body, which ensures the formation of public health policies. The Self-Help faction urges everyone to stop the zoo and start looking at the changes to the Employment Bill that we will support and vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u161	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Didn't the opposition block come out? I only gave my word to those who did not. Let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the room, prepare for the decision-making process, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u162	Now we're voting on the basis, and when we go to the whole thing, there's going to be an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-22-m0.u163	So, colleagues, everybody on the spot, let's move on to making a decision. Please, we're taking up jobs. This is in the field of work protection, not health, we are considering changes. In the field of work protection, not health. Yes. Yes. It was just a rumor, and I'll let you know. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Employment Act. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support, on the basis. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. It's not a political bill. Please take your seats. I'll wait 30 seconds. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please back up, vote! Please be supportive. [[13:32:31]] For a hundred and 194, colleagues. If I put it. Please turn on the factions. The factions. If I make the following suggestion: to the committee for processing? Let me put it back on this vote once, if there are no votes, let's move on to the next proposal, colleague. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, and I'm voting on the proposal to return to the vote for a motion by a committee under Law 4577. Please vote, please support, every vote matters, Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, return to 4577. Please be supportive. [[13:33:33]] For-198 I'll put the next sentence on the vote: return to the committee for further work. I'm asking you to support us not to lose the bill, this compromise proposal. Colleagues, please concentrate and I'm putting to the vote the proposal to return the draft Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Employment Act to the committee for further work. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:34:16]] For 197 And last of all, I propose that I return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, please gather if you please. please, colleagues, gather and I'll put to the vote the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the drafting of the Act amending article 31 of the Employment of Population Act (4577). Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:35:06]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Bill 4577 has been rejected. Colleagues, I'd like to discuss how we can proceed. What are some suggestions? Dear colleagues, we have social bills to prevent them from being put at risk, and a few factions have come forward to work on the committees. No objections? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no objection. Then, dear colleagues, I, by insisting on the factions' heads of factions the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares closed, and I wish all fruitful, systematic committee work. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. And I ask the committees to identify all the issues that are listed as urgent for consideration. Fruitful committee work! And I'm focusing separately on the Citizenship Act.
