ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u1	Good morning. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? I'd like you to sign up. Colleagues, please register. Please. [[10:05:04]] 345 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today we celebrate the Day of Crimea in the walls of the Supreme Council. As part of this day, a photo exhibition entitled "Fight Through the Years" is scheduled for the 3rd floor of the tower. A Crimean Tatar art exhibition and a photo exhibition of contemporary Crimean political prisoners. Again and again, we remind ourselves of the occupation of Crimea and part of Donbas Russia. We should not forget the occupied Crimea and the fate of the Ukrainians who remained under occupation. No one has the right to trade in Ukraine. We will free Crimea because Crimea is Ukraine. Please all take part in the exhibitions during the plenary sessions. I will also read in the Presidency: "In accordance with the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bublik Jury Vasilovich, from the MP's party, "Block of Peter Prashenka". And, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I want to stress that there are two important blocks today: this is a cluster of finance and banking and law enforcement. But at the beginning of the first question, an important decision, the draft Decision on the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Final Report of the OSCE on the results of the election observation to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation in 2016. A decision that awaits acceptance, colleagues, and I'll just turn to it. I'm just going to ask all the national MPs to support the author's proposal so we can look at it in a simplified manner. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the decision, colleagues. Please, there will be a vote in favour of a reduced procedure, I ask you to prepare for the vote, take your seats, please. So I would like to support the proposal for a draft regulation 5687 on the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the final report of the OSCE on the results of the election observation to the State Duma of the Russian Federation under the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, colleagues, vote. [[10:08:27]] For-149 Colleagues, please take up jobs, I ask for your support, and I'm voting on the proposal to consider the 5687 draft regulation on a reduced basis. Please vote your colleagues, carefully, please support, vote. [[10:09:04]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! It seems to me a very symbolic fact that we're looking at this decision right on the anniversary of the beginning, in fact, of the annexation of Crimea. At first, the Russian Federation physically stole Crimea from Ukraine. Today, the Russian Federation is trying to legitimize its theft through international organizations. I'd like your attention, colleagues, so it's a little difficult to speak from the rostrum when there's such a mess in the hall. In fact, the recently observed mission of the OSCE published its final report on the monitoring of elections to the State of the Russian Federation. And imagine, there's no word in this report about annexed Crimea. ODIR/OSCE explains this by, as if not all OSCE participating countries have a consensus on the status of Crimea. Obviously, there's only one country that's participating in the OSCE that's the Russian Federation that doesn't recognize its own theft and theft. Therefore, we propose that this decision be made to all EU member countries requiring them to apply for the ODIR to review their monitoring procedure. What's more, when the world tells us so often today that it is the ODIR/OSCE that will observe, perhaps the elections if there is a depopulation in Donetsk. So how can this organization observe there now on such a monitoring system, when the final report does not state that the election to the State took place with the use of electoral lists that were falsified by the forced issuance of Russian Federation passports? When they were unjustifiably included in these electoral lists, four deputies, the so - called Statemen, who the world did not recognize in the major districts of the stolen Crimea, were chosen. And it's obvious that today this monitoring procedure needs to be reviewed, and we have to go to all countries with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u4	You and I need to address this regulation to all the member states of the OSCE. And I would also like to thank you very much for preparing this thorough monitoring, the OSCE report and analysis, including Olga Aivasovsky, the OPRAR organization and other public organizations that have drawn ours with you, honourable legislators, to this disqualification. Thank you. And I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u5	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The elections to the State were held in Ukraine, which does not extend to the sovereignty of the Russian Federation. As a result of such elections, the Federal Assembly State Duma of the Seventh Assembly of the Russian Federation cannot be considered legitimately chosen. And that was the decision, in particular, of the Ukrainian Parliament. That's why the Ukrainian Parliament, in particular for the promotion of our public organizations as OPORA, Oli Avasovsky prepared a project called the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Final Report of the OSCE/BDIPL on the results of the election observation to the State Duma of the Russian Federation. And our main call is that we ask the OSCE member countries to support the Appeal (as soon as we need to develop a new reporting methodology that would include an assessment of the situation surrounding the occupation of part of the territory of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. In addition, we urge the OSCE/OBDIPL to study all the circumstances of the final report of the observation mission in the elections to the State Duma in order to avoid political influence on international observers. And I would also like to call for this report to be supported with the following technical legal regulations (under the transcript), namely: to add paragraph 2 of the following content to the tex of the decree: "To send the text to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay to the Parliaments of the OSCE participating states and to the OSCE acting head of the Federal Minister of European Integration and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria, Sebastian Kurtz." The other one. Paragraph 2 shall be deemed to be paragraph 3, respectively. And the third. In the Text Reference after the name, delete the Addressees. I wanted to thank everyone for preparing this report and to emphasise that the Ukrainian Parliament will not accept such non-professional preparations by the OSCE/BDIPL and also urges the OSCE participating countries to monitor the situation more closely. And in today's symbolic week of annexation, urge the Ukrainian Parliament to put together efforts to bring back Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u7	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. Please, Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u8	I give the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u9	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! The Self-Help faction will support another call to the world community. But do you know how people in the East, who suffer from occupation for the third year, today are called the OSCE? "Blind behind the wheel." Today, you and I are justly indignant about what is happening in Crimea. Yet, we still do not officially understand. We don't recognize why the Minsk so-called "households" have no mention of either Russia or Crimea. So if we want to be consistent and honest, first of all, with regard to the Ukrainian people, let's give an honest answer, why today in this room -- look at how many people today -- there is no Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, the Law which for the first time on legal level recognizes occupied territories as both part of Donbas and Crimea, the law that finally, in the fourth year of war, requires recognition of the date of the beginning of the occupation and the date of the beginning of the war, the law that finally blocks the criminal trade in occupied territories, the law that will allow Ukrainian citizens to be protected and protect their sovereignty, because all responsibility, the legal responsibility for all these terrible crimes, is fully translated into the Russian Federation. So, colleagues, the Self-Help faction is calling for an immediate review of the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories, because that is what people, the entire Ukrainian people, are demanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u10	Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich. Chubarov, please. Please turn on Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, you have a chance who hasn't looked yet when you go into the towers, take a look at the photos. More than 60 Ukrainian citizens are Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, people of other nationalities who have been killed, kidnapped, or imprisoned in the Crimea. I say this in order to make a statement, and we will certainly vote for it, but we must move on to more decisive action to force our partners to defend Ukraine more carefully with us. I don't think we're going to be able to make one statement here with the OSCE. The situation needs to be updated in such a way that the Council of Europe counts more with Ukraine on international sites such as the OSCE. more counted. That's why I think we should invite the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the near future to hear about the new proposals. The other one. We have in Ukraine ourselves to take steps in the middle that will strengthen the hope of those living in the temporarily occupied Crimea in other areas that are not under our control today. And that's where you have to do your homework. I very much hope that it will be these days that the President of Ukraine will finally initiate the creation of a working group on the reform of the Crimea Constitution. I think that's how we also have to consider the Occupyed Act in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u12	Please. Oh, we're done, aren't we? 30 seconds, please. You don't have to, do you? Okay. My colleagues, therefore, had no performance since the Radical Party. Oleg Lazko, 2 minutes, Ionova and we go to the vote. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u13	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The main task is to restore peace in our home country. And surely our political team will do its utmost to bring this peace back to our blessed earth as soon as possible. At the same time, however, there are two ways to peace: the road to defeat and the road to victory. Those who offer us to give up Crimea in exchange for the withdrawal of Russian troops from Donbas, or, rather, to give up Donbas in exchange for Crimea, are the road to defeat. Because both Crimea and Donbas are Ukrainian lands. And our goal is to achieve peace, not by losing, but by winning. That's why the Radical Party team is turning to the countries that signed the Budapest Memorandum in 1994, in exchange for which Ukraine has given up its third nuclear potential in the world, we call on you, the leaders of the United States, Great Britain, France, China, to fulfil your commitments to Ukraine under the Budapest Memorandum, to fulfil the guarantees that you have given to our country, to our people that you have given to the world. After all, by guaranteeing Ukraine, you showed the world that your word is hard as a scream. I'm addressing the President of the United States of Trump. You can make a direct military agreement between the United States and Ukraine outside NATO. You made the same agreements with Afghanistan, with Israel, with other countries, but none of them gave up nuclear weapons. Ukraine surrendered nuclear weapons. We demand that the United States make a direct military agreement with Ukraine to implement the Budapest Memorandum to stop Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u14	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make the closing statement of Mary Ion's. And then we go to the vote. So I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the vote, colleagues. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. Now turn on Maria Ion's microphone. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, as a member of the Committee on European Integration, would like to point out that the OSCE monitoring mission in the report on the Russian elections in Crimea has made no mention that such elections in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine by the aggressor country are a gross violation of the international standards for the democratic will of the people. And the OSCE mission did not have access to Crimea areas, because there is no consensus between the EU member states on the status of Crimea and the constituencies in its territory. And they're honest about it. So what's going on? With this document, Russia will discredit international institutions with the hands of the OSCE, including democratic elections. That is why we need to support this determination so that the international community can recognize the OSCE Report in a way that does not correspond to reality and the entire civilised world on Ukraine’s side. Crime is recognized by all partners in Ukraine, and such reports by the Russian Federation try to manipulate and lie to make it happen at least on the paper of recognition of the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula. So please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, and I'm putting to the vote the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Final Report of the OSCE on Election Observations to the Federal Parliament of the Russian Federation 2016 (No. 5687) on the Committee's proposal on the basis and overall. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:24:10]] For 239. It's been decided. Dear colleagues, we have had one brief decision left yesterday that will not take much time, but that we should discuss and accept. This is a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the situation of young people in Ukraine on the topic of "Recent orientations of modern Ukrainian youth" (No. 5570). She's next in line, and I'm asking you to vote on the reduced procedure and please support, colleagues, please. Review of the simplified procedure, please. [[10:24:58]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u17	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! On November 2, 2016, there were parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on the theme "Censorships and Guidelines of Modern Ukrainian Youth". I would like to inform you that more than 600 people participated in the hearings, including the national deputies of Ukraine, government representatives, central and local executives, local self-government bodies, religious, youth and scientific and civic organizations. And unfortunately, virtually all those who speak say that there are a number of problems in dealing with such issues as providing young people with housing, overcoming youth unemployment, promoting healthy and safe lifestyles, supporting talented young people on other important youth issues. The draft recommendations have been discussed carefully and during parliamentary hearings have been carefully worked out, taking into account proposals made by participants in hearings, where specific programmes, and measures are needed to address a number of key issues – the situation of Ukrainian youth and the plan agreed with all interested public authorities. Dear colleagues, please support the draft decision, because right now our young people are special and in this difficult time need to make this decision. All factions, please support the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. My colleagues, once again, I ask that we honor each other and give the opportunity to discuss draft laws in a calmer, quieter atmosphere. Please, two in favour, two in favour, write down a ruling if you need to. Please, the people's MP of Urbansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u19	I give the word to Babaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u20	Please turn on Babak's word. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, our colleagues were distracted on their way out, the Urban People's Deputy gave his word to the national MP of Sporish. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, just before the chairman of our committee, Arthur Palatny, in the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation (5570), spoke of the value of the orientation of modern Ukrainian youth. And I think our faction, "Peter Prashenko's Block," and I urge you where the question of youth is, we should all unite and vote in favour of this issue. Why? Because we know that at a time when Ukraine suffers from Russian aggression, the upbringing of young people is even more important than in peacetime. Parliamentary hearings pay great attention to the national patriotic education of young people, the creation of youth organizations, leisure, recreation, youth employment, housing. I think all of the measures envisaged in the decision should stop the critical emigration crisis of young talent from Ukraine, including patriotic sentiments. We understand that young people are the future of our nation. So it is up to us now whether we can create conditions for the development and life of our young people on earth, whether we can create a tolerant, humane, united society for the young generation. And even if young people come to the Supreme Council and stand in front of our rostrum where they speak at parliamentary hearings, it's already taking a big step forward because it's modern, it's patriotic and it can manifest itself in the future. Therefore, I ask that we all unite and vote in favour of this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Helen Babak gives the word to her colleague Irina Podowak. Microphone, please, Irina. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are considering an archival decision. I just want to tell you one thing: the values and orientations that we offer young people are first of all the truth, first of all, responsibility and courage. What we are currently discussing, in particular, such very important draft regulations, is that we live in this Parliament in parallel reality, around war, around corruption, around trade, and we as ostriches hide our heads in the sand, refusing to admit to reality. We don't show any examples to our young people, we destroy all the values. I wonder what we'll come back with when we get out of the session room if we're lying. And we demand, our faction requires the introduction of the House and the consideration of the draft Law on Occupied Areas. Then our values will not depart from our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u24	I'm asking my colleague to do it as precisely as possible, it's a simple decision. Please, Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u25	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! A really important decision was, I think, a successful parliamentary hearing in this session hall, which relates to the valuable orientations of Ukrainian youth. But at the same time, it is very important not only to adopt this decision but to implement it. Because this decision is followed by a series of government programs that don't exist today, that don't work in Ukraine: they're national patriotic programs, they're youth employment programs, they're affordable housing programs. Please tell me, if there is no program in the country for young people regarding the availability of housing, no programs for rural youth, which will be valued for young people? And then we watch sociological surveys, and according to them, 60 percent of Ukrainian youths want to leave Ukraine and never come back. This is the truth of life today. This is what young people today think and how they are oriented and mobilized to build a Ukrainian state. It is therefore absolutely necessary to take radical measures now, and these measures should first and foremost apply to social guarantees for Ukrainian youth: first job, affordable housing, effective family building and the development of young people in the spirit of national patriotic education. At the same time, I would like to make a single amendment to this decree and ask that it be edited. I want to remind you that not so long ago, a very important bill in this room was broken, which is contained in this decree, 1248, which applies to youth centers. It's a bill that was just supposed to allow Ukrainian youth to have a place where they can develop their skills, their skills, get together, build programs at the local level and implement them. So I ask you to replace Bill 1248 with Bill 6048 on the implementation of Council of Europe standards for youth centres and the decentralization of youth work. This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u26	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u27	This Bill 6048 is included in the agenda, it is considered by the committee, and we will be able to vote in this session room as soon as possible on an editorial amendment: 1248 to replace Bill 6048. They are very close to content and spirit, and they solve the problem of youth centers for Ukrainian youth and bring them into line with the Council of Europe standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u28	Colleagues, the closing statement, then let's move on to the decision, so please invite everyone to the hall and prepare for the decision. And now the word is given to Ungurian Paul Yakimovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u29	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues! Of course, the faction will support the recommendations of parliamentary hearings and I would like to express my gratitude on the one hand for the number and dynamics of parliamentary hearings that are among the leaders. Thank you to the Committee on Youth and Family Policy. The discussion has indeed been very fruitful and the recommendations have been prepared, but life has, unfortunately, added to our problem. I would now like to emphasize and ask your attention to a problem that has become very well known and relevant for literally the last few weeks. It's a problem of so-called suicide groups that exist on social networks among Ukrainian teenagers and young people. We realize that more often, mentioning these groups can also serve to spread this information, and the interest of young people and teenagers may increase, and so we do not want to make too much of a pianist and advertising to these disgraceful, scary groups that exist. But, at the same time, almost every day, the National Police, internal affairs agencies, are setting up groups, or other administrators, that lead teenagers and young people to a terrible act, to suicide. We must take into account the commission of the authorities of the National Police to increase cybersecurity for young people and children. And I also want to add to all the principles on which a valuable platform of Ukrainian youth is being built, I ask you to include this, spiritual and moral principles, as principles that also serve as a guarantee to build a real powerful Ukrainian potential, the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian youth. So I have these two comments, Andry Volodymyrovich, and I'm asking them to take them into account, because unfortunately, we have this problem with these suicide groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u30	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u31	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. John Krulk was declared correct. Please announce one minute to the head of the committee. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u32	I'm out of town. Dear colleagues, I very much ask all factions to support this important bill, to change the body of the law, in this decree the body of the law is 1248, I ask you to substitute for 6048.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u33	Let's see, I'm going to set up an adjustment that you've just written under the stenogram. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Young People in Ukraine on the theme: "Tiny orientations of modern Ukrainian youth" (room 5570), as amended by the head of the Committee, Arthur Palace, as a whole. Please vote, please support. The sound that Krulko and Palatno made under the stenogram. Please vote, please support as a whole 5570. Vote. [[10:37:47]] For 247 247 – yes. It's been decided. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, which we have had a lot of discussions, but which is also very important for the investigation against the Janukovic regime – this is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for the improvement of criminal enforcement mechanisms) (number 5610). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[10:38:36]] For-162 162-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code Amendment Act (registration number 5610), submitted by Alexei, me and others. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code by providing that the period of examination of the pretrial investigation by the parties to criminal proceedings should not be included in the general trial investigation period; an increase of up to 18 months of the maximum allowed period of detention in cases of particularly complex criminal offences in relation to the nature of serious crimes; an increase of up to 18 months of judicial investigation in the conduct of particularly serious crimes in a special trial, which clearly identifies the proposed project as part of the fourth article 294 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine; the establishment of a special court case for the existence of a criminal offence in an exceptional case, which clearly identifies the proposed project as part of the criminal procedure for the prosecution of a criminal offence; and the establishment of a criminal offence in a special court case for the presence of other accused of a criminal offence. In such cases, a person is considered to be well - acquainted with the content of the call for publicity in the public information field. To determine that approval for detention for the purpose of detention is lost legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u35	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u36	the accused is reported by the prosecutor. Also on the basis of what has been said, given the importance of the bill, which creates conditions for the proper prompt and objective investigation of criminal conduct, I propose a bill on the basis of the first reading and on the basis of the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u37	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u38	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed a project to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to improve enforcement mechanisms for criminal conduct) (number 5610). This bill, according to Mikola Petrovich, is an improved version of Bill 5490, which was designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. The bill marked. It is aimed at improving certain provisions of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. First of all, it's the correction of the docks of pretrial investigation, the mechanism of the report of the criminal challengers who are outside of Ukraine, the periods of custody, and so on. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee noted that the amendments proposed in the bill correct those provisions of the CPC, which now create conditions to avoid criminal liability by persons who, as part of organized groups and criminal organizations, committed serious crimes, such as improving the mechanism for reporting criminal charges. In addition, an analysis of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in interpreting the "reasonable term" shows that it is unnatural to set a single line in a specific digital expression for all cases. Therefore, after considering the bill at its meeting, the committee decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a first reading basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, we have a meeting with the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. And according to the Rules of Part One of the 34th Attorney General has a guaranteed right to speak. Yuri Vitaliovich. I invite you to speak with the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich. Please have five minutes to make a statement on this bill. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, thank you for being able to speak out on this important issue. You know, in society, it's very common to ask questions when will finally be held accountable by those who robbed Ukraine in total about $40 billion in the United States in the days of Yanukovich; who will be responsible for the organization of the repression of peace protests and the shooting of more than a hundred people and the wounding of more than 500 people; who will eventually be responsible for the organization of Russian invasion of Ukraine and the treason of the state. In support of the occupation of Crimea and the outbreak of hostilities in Donbassa, when eventually those traitors in Crimea who broke the oath of the Ukrainian State would be held accountable for the occupation of the invaders. All of this is done by the Attorney General of Ukraine. Hundreds of criminal acts are carried out in these individuals, dozens of them being transferred to court. But the biggest stepfather in this is the imperfections of today’s legislation on oblivion. Regrettably, the current drafting of this law provides laziness for the defense of these high-ranking and very wealthy, by robbing the country, the customers in order to stop these cases in court or at least to delay them. Today, your opinion is proposed by a law that will cover the possibility of protecting Yanukovic, Zacharychenk, and many others to bear a fair responsibility in an open Ukrainian court. The main tasks of this law are to add to the articles that are subject to ocular condemnation, article 255 "Creating a Criminal Organization". Unfortunately, there is no such article that makes punishment for economic and military crimes impossible. Second, this law lays down an exact rule for the calculation of terms that makes it impossible for lawyers of Yanukovic and his company to work in European courts. Third, he continues to act after April 15 and does not set clear terms. Today’s act from April 15th to April 15th may be viewed by European and Ukrainian courts as selective justice. We're taking down this rule and proposing "before the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation." As I understand it will be created already this year, so the operation of this law will actually work until the State Bureau of Investigation is established and, I understand, not later than the end of this year. And that's the main thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to show you who's waiting for your decision. Please note the following: 119 criminal conduct is ready to be brought to justice if the law is improved. Who are these people? Next slide. Your decision today awaits Yanukovic, Zacharychenko and all his comrades, including those suspected of shooting Midan: this is Schuljak, Ratushniak, Yakimenko, Azarov, Psongka, Kusuk, Totsky and many others who are not on this slide, but criminal conduct that is ready to be presented to the court this year. Your decision is also awaited (at the next slide) by President of the Russian Federation Glaziery, President-in-Office of the Russian Federation in the so-called "Crime Federal District" of Bilavints, Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation of Shoehu, Deputy Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation of Bulgakov, Pankov, Head of Genstabu Gerasimov. Next slide. 12 generals and 2 senior officers of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. As early as this year, they must be judged and condemned by Ukrainian courts. Your decision is also awaited by several hundred Crimean traitors — prosecutors, judges, police, other government officials — who have betrayed Ukrainian oaths and are repressing Ukrainian citizens in Crimea. I ask you very much to reject any speculation of a political nature. As the Attorney General of Ukraine, I immediately claim that I agree with the repeal of this law on the right of the Attorney General to continue to investigate for up to 18 months. We can do without this norm, just to settle other articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u41	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u42	The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine does not need an extension of the investigation to 18 months, which is so often asked by some national deputies. We are also ready to give up the message by means of the media. The current order of things also suits us because we are already working on it for the current year. If these two questions are being removed, I would very much ask you to support the proposed bill in the first and in general, which will allow March 10 to start the trial of Janukovic on charges of treason and in the coming months to continue this activity to the figures shown on the slides. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two for, two against, please. Efimov Maxim Viktorovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u44	Please give Winniku Ivan Juleevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u45	Good morning, dear colleagues. John Wynnick, Peter Dusty Block. You know, it's probably symbolic that we're looking at such an important project in the week of the shooting of Maidan, and there's a lot of people who have questions -- when Janukovic will finally be on the bench when he's convicted and when he's finally being detained by Interpol at the intersection of any border. And you know, it's clear that his leadership, the President's Administration at Yanukovich himself was such a specialist called Portnov, left a lot of sparin in the current Criminal Procedure Code, which was still adopted in 2011, probably so that Yanukovich could avoid further punishment, including for corruption and the destruction of the Ukrainian state, which he had committed while in office, for the creation of criminal groups. In fact, these are the latrines used today by Janukovic's lawyers, and in fact these latrines can be the basis for the prosecution of any decision of the Ukrainian court in the subsequent European Court of Human Rights or of any international institution, appealing to the selectivity of justice and so on. We are obliged today to close these hatches; we are obliged, as the Attorney General has just reported, to ensure that Janukovich can be brought to justice on 15 March. You know, there's been a lot of talk in this room about the return of the looted Ukrainians, about the so-called special confiscation, but the opponents of this law have said a lot about the fact that let's go through the verdict, and after the verdict of the court, because of the special confiscation provided for in article 96 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, we're going to draw up the looted one. But we can't go out properly today, you know. I call on the people who have proposed this design to support 5610 -- a bill that will allow us to obtain sentences through a special court sentence procedure. Colleagues, let's be honest with the Ukrainian people, let's generally support, work on a reduced procedure for second reading. We can't delay this, it's Ukraine, it's our story, it's our future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u47	Please pass the word Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u48	Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u49	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, the bill, the problems that we have in attracting the responsibility of the Yanukovich gang, unfortunately, are once again transformed into emotional theatre performances that have absolutely nothing to do with reality. In fact, the bulk of the money proposed in the bill is not new. The honourable lawyers who are in this room, please open the 1960 Criminal Procedure Code and you will find most of the things that are now being proposed. The things that were now said that could be corrected between the first and the second readings, I have a question to you: how often did we see the possibility of correcting those principled unacceptable things that didn't happen in the end result between the first and the second readings? Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, I ask you to take the National Strategy for the Development and Reform of the Judicial System and the Law Enforcement, as approved by the President, and you will find in principle the fundamental difference and opposite to the things that have now been announced. I'm already talking about the manipulations that might be in our unreformed, actually, law enforcement system. For example, what is a particularly complex crime? This will be brought to justice by tax officials, prosecutors, and investigators who have stayed in their offices. Dear journalists, I have a request from you to monitor how the voting will now take place on this impeccable bill. And the last. As long as we sit here and discuss the current issues, we don't have one of the most important bills to be considered in this room -- it's a law on occupied territories. Everything else for today is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u50	Linko Dmitry Volodymyrovich conveys the word Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, the bill that is currently being considered in Parliament is a bill, which, in simple words, proposes to return the "stalin" authority to the prosecutor's office. The investigation procedure is being resumed until the State Bureau of Investigation is established. This means that the State Bureau of Investigation will never be created. I would also like to report that President Prašenko spoke to me personally on this subject and tried to convince us to vote in favour of this bill. The motivation was to investigate Yanukovich’s crimes. For three years Janukovitch is gone, four general prosecutors have changed, and everything they don't do is done by fighting Yanukovic. Finally, start fighting not only Yanukovitch but also today’s corrupters, who are in power, but not the draconian powers for the prosecutor’s office, so as to use them to raise political accounts with opponents and to usurp power. That's why this law is needed. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not vote in favour of this law. We are also convinced that when we specifically changed the law to appoint the Attorney General, the Honourable Yuri Lucenka. Do you think it's a democracy? I think it's not, I think it's the path to dictatorship. And when they're specifically changing the law today to give additional powers to Henprosecutor, is it democracy? No! No! This is the path to a dictatorship built by President Prašenko! That's why the Radical Party faction won't vote for it. Look, people are good, as many MPs have driven even those who never go to parliament. You guys, when you press the pro button, remember, "the stake is calling for you." What if the powers you vote for will be put in place tomorrow, on their basis, then don't ask why you didn't vote for them. We don't vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u52	From the People's Front to the word, Amazanov Andri Vitaliovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u53	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues! I suggest that all of you today step away from politics and move on to a constructive one. Let's remember when Yuri Vitaliovich was granted the right to become Attorney General. Indeed, there were battalions, there were promises, there were legislative changes. But when Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko came to us on a faction and I think he went to everyone's faction, and he promised us to finish the Maidan case, to put Janukovich's high crews, to put his whole gang, his entire team. We believed him. We, the People's Front faction, supported Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka's candidacy. Today there are some legal disagreements, some nuances that need to be brought into law in order to allow Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka as Attorney General, the entire Attorney General's Office to continue the investigation and empower them to sit. Yes, indeed, there are many nuances in this bill today that we, as lawyers, should be working on. That's why the People's Front faction has decided at a faction meeting that we will support this bill exclusively in the first reading and we will be in the second reading, as we now have two weeks not as plenary, we will work together to ensure that this bill does not contain the nuances that many of my colleagues are stressing today. I am grateful to Yuri Vitaliyovich for having organized, indeed, a professional discussion within a few weeks of this legislative, legislative initiative of the Attorney General's Office, and we have agreed on almost all the inaccuracies. But unfortunately, there are still nuances left today, there are nuances with the continuation of pretrial investigation, there are nuances with the output, there is a study of the case outside the scope of pretrial investigation, there is still an agreement with organized criminal groups. But all of these nuances, I think we can reconcile to the second reading. So, dear colleagues, I propose today to support this bill in the first reading and continue to work in the legal community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u54	Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion is concluded. I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs and prepare for the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the factions to invite deputies into the Chamber for a decision. So, are colleagues ready to make a decision? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct) (No. 5610) as proposed by a committee on the basis of a colleague. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We support 5610 on a base, please vote, colleagues, please support. Please vote. [[11:01:30.]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you for your professional work as Attorney General. There is no need to vote on the simplified procedure for the second reading, for we have two weeks and two weeks. I don't think it's necessary, in two weeks, it's exactly the period that's scheduled for preparation. Thank you, Yuri Vitaliyovich, for participating in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We move on to the next draft of the Act on which the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy insisted on on the Conciliation Council as urgent – this is the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for inheritance taxation) – this is the second reading, 0940. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please. Nina Petrovna, please report. Colleagues! Please, Nina Petrovna, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u55	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national MPs, will present a comparative table for your consideration of Bill 0940. I'll remind you that the main point of the bill was to tax an inheritance. What was suggested for the second reading? This is a reference to taxation for second - grade family members, relatives, brothers and sisters, grandmothers, and grandparents, both on the part of mother and father and grandchildren. Taxation of the inheritance received by the second-degree relatives is the same as the first-degree relationship at zero per person’s income tax. Cancelling the mandatory assessment of inheritance objects for the purpose of their taxation when they are inherited by members of the heir’s family in the first and second stages of the relationship, clarifying the order in which gifts are taxed. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 0940 of the legislators received 11 amendments, of which 9 were taken into account in general and taken into account in fact, two amendments - 5th and 6th - were rejected because they were essentially contrary to the amendments taken into account. In addition to the previous table, two amendments were adopted, and they were considered on the committee and adopted by the committee: Amendments 9 and 10. Amendment 9 provides for a clarification of the wording of section XX, section 10, of the Code on the characteristics of tax and tax collection for tax payers who, on 14 April, were located in the temporarily occupied territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, and amendment 10, which provides for amendments to paragraph 1 of section II, “Transitional positions”, of the Law on Ukraine 1797. which corrects those technical disagreements as to the validity of certain paragraphs of this law. In view of these two additional amendments to the bill, it is necessary to clarify the title of the bill. Dear colleagues, we have held additional consultations, and for the sake of harmonization of this bill, we propose that the text of section III, paragraph 1, of the Final Position of the Bill be clarified for the sake of agreement, namely, this law takes effect from the day following its publication and is applied to the tax periods starting on 1 January 2017. I propose a bill (registration number 0940) taking into account this clarification to be adopted in second reading as a law with regard to technical and legal amendments. Ready to respond to the revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u56	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we can follow through. I completed a full report on all the amendments proposed for the second reading. Please consider the bill further.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's been a discussion in our room, and I'm asking representatives of the factions to speak up on that. Yeah, BP is Vinick. Who? Chicken, right? Please, all factions will be placed. Please, Chicken. Come on, turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the "Peter Prashenko Block" will be required to support this bill. We understand the position of our colleagues who are now standing at the rostrum. They, many of them, who, some of their colleagues, want to avoid being responsible for oil theft and participating in the Kurchenka crime schemes, will not do so. The bill has a progressive norm, and it explicitly prohibits the transfer of alcohol and tobacco to occupied territory and vice versa, to an area controlled by Ukraine. Who will do this, and who will control it? In fact, today's transition period is the Tax Police. We have to ensure the continuity of the central authorities. We're going to create a new financial investigation service, but it takes some time. A legal vacuum cannot be created in Ukraine, a state that protects its borders. Vote for Ukraine! We're voting for order in the state, that's what people demand!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u60	Thank you. Who else would like to come forward, colleagues, from factions? No, no, from factions, I mean. Self-help, Burgundy, please. Turn on Jury's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u61	This law has the right to exist. On Maidan. There was a Berkut on Maidan that killed people. There's a tax police in the country now that's killing business. We don't have the right to return to this body, he has the power to terminate. We're demanding an amendment to the 9th, the 10th, Southern regulations regarding the restoration of the operations of the Tax Police and the failure of them. This one. For confirmation. It doesn't have that law. These rights have nothing to do with the Inheritance Law. Anyone who thinks this can be acceptable, go to the people who are now rallying in front of the Supreme Council. Mr. Chicken, Mrs. Jujanina, and explain to them what you're doing and why you're destroying the Ukrainian business. Today, the tax police are completely bankrupt! It's the only one who supports political projects and fills their budgets. Last year, 200 million dollars of cash was taxed by the police. According to official statistics, the budget has reached 780,000. The question is, where are the 200 million in whose?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u62	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u63	That's why the 9th, 10th revisions have to be submitted for confirmation, and the failed ones are not supported. Tax police are gone!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u64	Timoshenko is a minute. And Easy is a minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, once again the Block of Petra Prashenka, Jujanina makes their amendments into perfectly normal laws, which overwhelm the entire fight against corruption, which in fact overwhelms the struggle for freedom of enterprise -- and, on the contrary, impose absolutely corrupt norms that do not have the right to life. That's why our faction insists that amendment number 9 and number 10 be put on confirmation, and that Southine, who is today essentially the provider, you know, the manager of all the corrupt powder gears to finally leave the head of the tax committee, because she corrupts every law: she supports offshores, she supports corruption and destroys business. We have to stop this. Amendment 9, 10 is for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u66	Oleg Valeriovich Lyszko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our colleagues have just supported a dictatorial law that gives dragon's powers to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office, which will persecute including small businesses. And now you're telling me how you're protecting this business. The Pharisees, in fact, because you're giving the prosecutor's office the authority to make the prosecutor's office a political instrument in the hands of President Prashenko, and then you're telling me how bad Prashenko is. What do you support him for? Why are you giving Dictatorial Powers to Dust? Why are you making a stronger prosecutor's office run by Prašenko? So our faction didn't vote for the "dragon" changes in the prosecutor's office, we support the changes in tax legislation that simplify the business process in our own country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u68	Colleagues, pay attention! Now they've got names, now they've got lines. Attention, colleagues! I just, you know, want a little situation. I don't know what the tension is. The bill has a committee decision. We'll do the repairs. And they're all going to be asked to confirm the amendments that were made. I don't know what it's all about. I don't know what the tension is. We, like all other bills, will follow the Rules, and the Hall will be defined. I, by the way, don't understand why there wasn't a rostrum for the head of the committee. This, I think, is a bad practice and an misunderstood practice. Please, now the names are Chicken, Jujanina, one minute is Chicken, a line, one minute is Southern, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to focus on number nine, which has just been discussed here. Open your eyes! Do not display your double standards and duality. Amendment 9 prohibits the smuggling of tobacco, alcohol, and alcohol into Ukraine. Do you want to vote against her? You want to block for your sake. For the country to fall into ruin? Friends! You can't keep checking with the Tax Police today, as Mr. George does. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, everyone knows he was involved in the theft of Chicken Oil schemes. And that's why, using what the Attorney General of Ukraine has just been in this room, he has to say and give a clear legal assessment of Mr. George's actions. Colleagues, today the country needs order. And the fact that George is blocking the rostrum is how he protects himself. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u70	Fellows, I want to emphasize once again, I've given the opportunity to speak from factions, now I'm giving the replicas of who was mentioned, then we're going to go to the right, don't do some incredible shit in the hall, we're going to go straight to the Rules, all right. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I have just been accused of reinstatement of the tax police, and I understand perfectly that by voting Bill 5368 we did not eliminate the tax police from January 1. How do you feel about us correcting the technical error that numerologists have made? You're telling me, "Let's take advantage of this technical error and so let our tax militia be eliminated from January 1st." Listen, please, the Committee on Law Enforcement, let them explain, our colleagues, to the knowledge of this committee is the elimination of law enforcement agencies. Let them explain whether we can eliminate, without the right of succession, an organ that had investigators as a tax police, just so that we can transfer all cases and just do all the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u72	Please, colleagues, now. There was a word from "Peter Dustock's Block." Now is Finance Minister Daniluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u73	Thank you for the opportunity. I've come here as the minister you've assigned to this responsible office to make my position regarding the re-establishment of the tax police. I believe that the tax police is a repressive body that has pushed for business, without reducing the level of financial crime. And this is an inheritance that must remain in the past. Restoring the powers of the tax police will delay the process of creating a new financial investigation service, obviously, as provided for by the President's decrees, the Coalition Agreement you signed, and on this basis you created a government, as well as our international commitments and the government program. I don't understand why, I don't even know why, but now we're, you're going to break two rules. First. This is the Supreme Council regulation. And the second. This 10 amendment also contradicts the Tax Code, which can only be amended by the introduction of the Code itself. What's the rush? In whose interests do you act? I'm sure you're working for the economy. You're a Parliament for Development, you're a Parliament for Change, don't create a situational coalition for the preservation of the past. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u74	Colleagues still had a replica called Georges. One minute and that's it, and let's move on to the amendments, colleagues. Colleagues, all the factions have said, 1 minute of George's replica, is not passed on. It's not passed on. The replica is not passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u75	. Mr. Chumak will explain his position after me. And I just want to say it briefly. Colleagues, this hall voted last year to eliminate the Tax Police since January 1, 2017. The law is strict, but it is the law, and this hall must do it. There is no reason to renew the mandate. The law they're trying to consider right now. First. Norms for the Tax Police were not in it at first reading. The other one. He was prepared for his second reading in the spring of last year. And then in violation of all the Rules' procedures, they made changes about the Tax Police and the activities in the occupied territories to get support from the Opposition Block. Is that what you expect of the people you came here from Maidan in blood? I don't think so, friends. So one more time. We don't have the right to reinstate the Tax Police. And people who speak of criminal persecution and personal interests, please make decisions here to remove parliamentary immunity and then we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u76	So, colleagues, we exchanged thoughts, I think the tension is asleep. Let's move on to the amendments, colleagues. The last name was not mentioned, the last name was not mentioned. We're moving on to the amendments and so am I. The first amendment is the 5th, which was rejected. This is Sergei Mishchenko. Please, Sergey Mishchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to explain what's going on right now. If there was no manipulation, no forgery, no violation of the Rules, what is now at the rostrum, there would be no. Because they took my law, which is 100 percent in favour of this Parliament, a hundred percent in the body and body of this law put a spoon, not even a spoon, but a barrel of tart. And that's why these people who block do everything right because they have to make the amendments because they have no relation to the Heritage Law. And so don't do this circus, you can't use good laws for some of your demands. And that's why I'm not going to confirm my amendment, but I want everyone to understand that at the expense of the people who are now likely to suffer from rejection, the whole body that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u78	Please comment. Nina Petrovna is the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! This bill was prepared for second reading on the committee, it's not your property, it's your first. Secondly, those norms that have been introduced, they correct the technical error, no demands, no harm to the state, to society, to business they don't bear. Please make up your mind, these are technical adjustments. If you were really set up to create a new Financial Investigations Service, we need to work together, because this is a new body that will replace the three structures. Where is the Committee on Law Enforcement, where do they think? They tell me, colleagues, you told me you couldn't do it. Why don't you just shut up? Why don't you confirm that there can't be a technical error in the disposal of an organ? So I ask you to support me in my second reading and in general, this is the decision of the committee that made the decision and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u80	Please, 30 seconds. You're done, aren't you? Do you insist on voting? You insist on voting, Sergei. No, you don't. Okay. By the way, colleagues, there are only two amendments, and so I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall, and we're about to move on to making a decision. 6th Amendment, Kulinich. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Yes, there's been a 9th confirmation amendment, please. Please, dove, one minute. And please come into the hall, prepare for the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, under the transcript, I'm asking you to make a 9th amendment for confirmation. And I'd like us to take away some political degrees here and say two moments. I'm not going to talk about the substance of this amendment, because there's been a lot of, in fact, discussion here. Two moments ago, the bill was made in violation of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council" and the second moment, we just heard a statement by the finance minister of Ukraine. I'm now addressing my coalition colleagues, we've voted in favour of this government, so we trust this government, so we have to follow the policy principles that the government tells us about and, in particular, the minister of finance has just told us about it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u82	Please comment, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u83	What amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u84	The 9th amendment is requested for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u85	Please let me confirm. We made a decision on the committee to support her. No changes in taxation, no changes in corporate taxation on the occupied and on the collision line. We made it clear that I don't understand the Minister of Finance: paragraph 38, in the previous edition, provides for a substantial return from the budget for overpaid taxes. We are now regulating this rule, where is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance? There's no cost, they didn't put any price transfers in place to pay back. And he's saying that we don't need to support these amendments? I ask for support for the ninth amendment, since without it, local budgets will be able to reimburse the payers who win the courts, without distorting the content of these standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u86	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirming the ninth amendment, and I want to emphasize that the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll let the committee head make a statement, and now there's an amendment and an amendment vote. I'm asking people at the rostrum to calm down! Just take a few breaths and calm down, okay? Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm now proposing that the ninth amendment be confirmed, and the committee is calling on the national MPs to support the amendment of the nine bills. And I ask who supports amendment number nine, who supports the committee and its proposal. Please vote. The ninth amendment, the committee's proposal to support, vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[11:26:06]] For 203 203-yes. The decision is not made. Then you raised Winnick's hand, what's the fix? Ivan Vinnik? John Winnick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u87	You know, I'd like to go to the self-help representative who's on the stand right now, and I'd like to explain why he's so actively defending the abolition of the powers of the pre-trial investigation bodies that are currently conducting crimes related to tax evasion. The thing is, he used to work at the Fozzy Group and send money to the Kurchenka conversion center. And now that's what we're doing. That's why he's suggesting that we cancel the pretrial investigation for the tax police today. But I'd like to explain the point. You know, if we cancel the pretrial investigation for the tax police right now, that doesn't mean there's no investigation. It's just that the D.A. will set up a second investigative body, for example, the National Police. In no case will you be able to avoid punishment, you will be blocking the Heritage Act, the abolition of inheritance taxes for Ukrainians, or you will not, your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u88	Mr. John, on what direction do you propose to set?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u89	Please vote on Bill 0940 in second reading and as a whole in the committee. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u90	Colleagues, two revisions were rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is. Please, who's microphone? Berezuk, one minute. 10 lashes. Please give me a minute, Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u91	Please pass on the word to Andrey Zhurziya.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u93	Colleagues, we're putting and insisting on the 10th installment, which aims to restore the powers of the tax police, which has lost them since January 1, 2017. As for the collapse, there will be no collapse. Most of the IRS, prosecutors, and the police follow up on the tax police. These authorities can investigate these matters in a calm manner. And given the effectiveness of the tax police, nothing will happen at all, because their effectiveness is zero. I stress once again that the body that shapes politics -- the Ministry of Finance -- is opposed to restoring the powers of the tax police. Please, coalition, form a government, support your own government, and do not restore corrupt organs. With regard to the persecution of specific MPs, I would like to stress once again: make a submission if you have business, and stop prying, you thieves!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u94	Colleagues, 10 revisions for confirmation. I want to ask you right away, we're going to have some more adjustments, because I see a forest of hands. No, right? This is the last amendment, and then we'll move on to making a decision. This is the last amendment that will be put to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. After this amendment, we will move on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. No, after the 10th amendment, comment, Nina Petrovna. [[Noise Nodes]] The committee head comments on each amendment. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u95	As for the 10 amendments, I'm going to ask you the next time, if you need to -- let's give the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. We cannot eliminate a natural tax authority. This should be a special procedure that provides for the transfer of all matters and all work from one organ to another. What's more, we're going to eliminate and we're going to end up in economics. to combat economic crime and the B.P.A. and the National Police. Where Is Our Responsibility? Please support the 10th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u96	I will give the floor to the committee's head, but after voting for this amendment. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the 10th amendment. The chairman of the committee urges her to support it, the 10th amendment, because this is actually the amendment of the national deputy of South Nina Petrovna. I'm betting on confirmation of the 10th amendment that the committee calls for support. Please vote, please support the 10th amendment, please vote. [[11:31:02]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. One minute, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear families of fellow taxpayers of the Tax Police, I want to apologize to you for the underprivileged and cunning politicians who make such changes at night, do not consult with the committee when they attempt to bypass and so do we -- we are eliminated by the law enforcement agency at night, we are eliminated by the police, and we are created by the investigating authorities for themselves in the Ministry of Justice. Great. That's the first one. And secondly, I want to answer one very bright, in my paws, the leader of the faction, that we just got a clear idea on the board, and we found out who's in the real coalition, who's taking taxes, who wants to take taxes off those who trade in blood. You've all seen it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u98	Colleagues, the discussion of the bill is over. Eleven. To confirm or to confirm. 11th Amendment. Colleagues, the last one is, Sergey Mishchenko, 11th Amendment, this is his readjustment. So who's supporting the 11th edition, Mishchenka. Please, one minute Sergey Mishchenko. 11th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, are true and must be fought for. Now, now, this is a pure law on what eliminates for the second line, for grandchildren, taxation and inheritance valuation. This is what's called "legislative activity." I want to remind everyone that two years ago, at the end of the past Parliament, my basic law was passed for the first round. And now people don't pay their son, their daughter tens of thousands of dollars to build that house. And I am grateful today to the Minister of Justice of Petrenko, who is implementing the second part of my basic law, where pilot projects have been implemented in Sumskia and Kyiv in connection with the formation of an inheritance in silrada. So this minister is really the minister who's doing decentralization. And now we're all voting together to do for our grandchildren what they did for their children.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u100	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. The discussion is over. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I'm betting on it. [[B in m in s a l in]] One more minute, Nina Petrovna. Please. Eugene Nina Petrovna, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! In these responsible moments, we need to forget about all the populism. No one wants to restore a repressive body like the Tax Police. But if we don't do it now, it will be another mistake that this Parliament will make. I ask that you put to the vote in the second reading and in general the bill in the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Committee! [[B in m in s a l in]] It's the committee! I'm just insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u102	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll put it as prescribed by the Rules after the discussion. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (in respect of inheritance taxation) (0940) in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we've had our discussions. The amendments that were supported were supported, which they weren't -- they weren't. In the second reading, and in general, I ask for your support. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:35:35]] For 278 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next question, colleagues. This is the obligation of the Supreme Council that we must fulfill. This is a draft Decision on the appointment of an external control commission to conduct an independent evaluation (audit) of the effectiveness of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (5571). Colleagues, please. Colleagues, there is a separate procedure for considering the bill. Colleagues! Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:36:59]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption of Sobolev Egor Viktorovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I think this is a decision that can unite us. By law, the Anticorruption Bureau is required to conduct external audits each year. Parliament, the President and the Government should be appointed by one auditor. These audiences have experience in such activities, such as work in international organizations, courts, prosecutors, and other law enforcement agencies. Our committee has announced a contest to elect an audience for the Supreme Council. We got two very strong candidates. The European Union nominated Joan Kessler, the head of OLAF, who is currently investigating Marin Le Penn. You've heard, I think, this story. The United States government nominated Robert Storch. Robert Storch is the deputy inspector general of the United States. In fact, it is the person who conducts the FBI, the FBI, Interpol, and other institutions that are in control of the United States Ministry. Robert has experience in Ukraine, he is very well versed in our situation, and he has a tremendously unique experience in external auditing of the United States law enforcement agencies. Our committee unanimously supported his candidacy and asked the entire Parliament to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u104	Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Please. Please, Green Igor Olegovich. Green Igor Alexiyovich. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to propose, on behalf of the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko and the political party of the People's Front, Nigel Brown's candidature, to the commission of external control of the conduct of an independent evaluation (audit) of the effective activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. The proposed candidature meets all the requirements set out in the second part of article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Nigel Brown has considerable experience in law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, foreign courts, and international organizations, and he has the necessary knowledge and skills to carry out such an evaluation, as well as an excellent business reputation. Please consider the two factions' proposal and include Nigel Brown's candidacy for the rating vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u106	Thank you. Next Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u107	The Self-Help faction will support and vote in favour of this bill in favour of this candidature. I also want to say that justice has just happened and we have shown real democracy in Parliament. But I want to point out that the main issue of today is the Law on Occupied Territories. And without solving this question, everything else we do is little steps. Therefore, we demand that the Act on Occupied Territories be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u108	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich conveys the word Láško Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I request your attention for an important message. A colleague of ours, the chairman of the committee, comes out, and says: “We propose to approve Mr. Robert Storch, recommended to us by the United States Government. Mr. Kessler recommended the European Union. Honorable fellow national MPs, don't you think that's a humiliation when we look at those who are recommended. I have a question for Mr. Storch. When it was approved as Deputy Director General in the United States, when the Senate was approved by the Inspector General, did any foreign state recommend your approval in the United States or your superior? What are you turning Parliament into? You go out and you tell us, they recommend. Look at the paper they gave us. Mr. Storch recommends the United States Embassy. I have a question: is the Supreme Council of Ukraine a branch of the United States Embassy? Once there was a majority of the Party of Regions, they turned the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the branch office of the Russian Embassy. Now you want to turn into the U.S. embassy branch. You are the Ukrainian national deputies, you have been chosen by the Ukrainians. You should not do what one foreign government or another recommends you to do what the Ukrainians require of you. We need to respect our own country. Stop demeaning Ukraine, a large European country. Stop humiliating the Ukrainians when you have any embassies. Tomorrow the Embassy of Mars will advise you. I recommend you all go to Mars and plant apples there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u110	Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u111	Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! Indeed, many Ukrainians are worthy of these positions. Yes, so many of the people we have in Parliament and other state institutions are people who are apherists, people who are not worthy, but also many Ukrainians are willing to take up these positions, who are willing to work for the benefit of the Ukrainian nation. That is why we should want to see the Ukrainians take up such positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen. From the People's Front, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u113	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I'm like a deputy major representing an almost three hundredths district, and I can tell you clearly what the Ukrainians are asking us to do. The Ukrainians want the corrupt to sit in jail. Ukrainians want government officials to work on the principles of the rule of law and justice. The Ukrainians want an honest trial and the Ukrainians do everything in the same way that we're going to give them that result. So I think we should thank those distinguished representatives of other countries who are willing to put their time in order to make Ukraine free from corruption. And the Ukrainian people and I are confident that this corruption will not come to them in any way. So I think this is the right decision. And now we are the Supreme Council to give our country a chance to fight corruption definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, to explain the head of the committee. Please turn on the microphone, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u115	First. Colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, tell me how you can put another person's name into a draft decree that's prepared and put to Parliament. The other one. To Oleg Lalashka, to all the other people who are concerned that it should be Ukrainian. I understand your concerns, but I need to read the law. "The Supreme Council, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers shall each year designate one member of a commission of persons who have considerable experience working in the pre-trial investigation bodies of the Public Prosecutor's Office, courts abroad or in international organizations, possess the necessary knowledge and skills to carry out such an audit evaluation and have an irreprehensible business reputation." We just don't have people like that in Ukraine, and there was no international audit. What's more, if we're talking about a law enforcement agency. Who do you think you're willing to trust to be tested by the Ukrainian experts, just give me one last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u116	Colleagues, I remind you, when the last name is given, it's just that we don't have to go into too much discussion. One minute, a line. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko. I have no objection to the proposed candidate. But I strongly oppose the introduction of external governance in our country is the humiliation of our state. No one will talk to us, no one in the world will respect us if we do not respect ourselves. When we say we have a 45-million-dollar nation and we don't have 45 million Ukrainians that we can entrust our destiny to. We had the yares, the blubbers, and other deserving people. Where are they? Where are the results of their work? They came and went, and we lived in our own country. If you take over the right of foreign administration of Ukraine, I think it demeans every Ukrainian from Cossacks, from Princes, from Gehtmans. You have no right to humiliate the Ukrainians by introducing the external administration of our great nation and nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u118	So, colleagues, there are two candidates in the discussion. Robert Storch, who offered the committee, colleagues. And the second candidature offered by the factions. I want to emphasize to you right now. Colleagues, pay attention! In the morning, I had a conversation with two heads of factions, where it was made clear that the Supreme Council of Ukraine was proposing. And if even in other bills are "according to the recommendation of the committee," there is no chapter on "Proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." And that's why anyone can propose a candidate, and the Supreme Council will be defined for that. In the morning, when the two factions came to me, I had a consultation with the lawyers, and they made it clear to me that any candidate could be named. What is more, as reported, is now the presence of Nigel Brown in the room, and according to the discussion procedure, we have to give him a word, give him a question, and we will be able to provide more information on this. And I now give the floor to Nigel Brown for five minutes, and I ask you to turn on the microphone. Colleagues, everyone has a translation through headphones and you can hear a translation through headphones during the talk. So, please, five minutes for the show, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for being able to contact you today. I listened to a little bit of you, and I heard a lot of these very nice speeches for independence, for transparency, for not imposing anything. First of all, there's a law on bribery and corruption, I've worked in many countries in Britain, in states, in some countries in Europe, and anti-corruption laws in Ukraine are high standards, but now I'm not going to talk about it. But the initial point is that corruption becomes morally unacceptable. And now there are times when international corruption is a big concern for people all over the world, especially in this Parliament. The World Bank says that corruption robs a trillion dollars a year in the world. And speaking of the anti-corruption fight, I can refer to UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in 2004 before the adoption of the anti-corruption convention at the UN, he said that corruption is a plague that devours society, and it undermines democracy, it undermines the rule of law, it leads to human rights violations, it distorts markets, it eats up the quality of life, it promotes terrorism and it poses other threats to human society. And this evil, this phenomenon has struck all the countries of the world: big countries, small countries, rich countries, poor countries -- corruption is striking the poorest in proportion, because it takes money away from those who need it. Corruption is a key element of the underdevelopment of every economy, when investors in the economy and international ones are simply destroyed. And that's when bribery is corruption. Sorry, bribery is seen as a crime without punishment, so we have to fight corruption at the international and internal levels, because it's an all-inclusive problem. I mean very clearly right now, I'm not a politician, I'm not a civil servant, I'm not a judicial authority, I'm not a prosecutor. Nothing affects me in my professional audit, and I spent my entire career searching for the truth for others. And most of my career has gone through private sector procurement, and I can report on my work. If I don't deal with her, there's only gonna be incompetence. And I think that this goal, the comprehensive goal must be achieved, the law and the persecution for failing to comply with the law require evidence that they can be tested in court. It is very important to stress that before any prosecutor can consider public interest, evidence must be provided to enable him to make a decision. And I can add evidence and look at it. Check them to investigate any corruption. When there is. Once the necessary facts are considered, the possibility of persecution will be invented, only then will it be initiated. And it needs to be the standard of facts, the standards of their congregation, the standards of testimony, and these standards need to be high. I have no doubt that your department will follow these standards. Now you can eliminate bribery and make positive changes in society predict this, because it will help restore people's reputation. Finally, in investigating and auditing investigations, I rely on my many years of experience. Let us confirm that all witnesses are gathered by investigators, that they are gathered according to proper standards, with standards, properly, professionally. And let three with questionable accusations be dismissed than that of one person because of false evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u120	It's a question mark. Please take part in the recording, please. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Nigel, welcome to the Ukrainian Parliament. I hope you like it here. I have a simple question for you because we only met, who invited you here? Who nominated you as a candidate for parliament, specifically from the Peter Timoshenko bloc and who invited you here? [[Laughter]] Thank you for your sincere response.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u122	Please, this. Colleagues, that's five minutes -- that's the question and the answer, the short answer, the shortest possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u123	It's very simple, I don't know who nominated me, what kind of person. But recently I learned that a bill had been proposed in Britain and a new anti-corruption body had been created. I was invited, nominated as a member of this body, and was there. There was a discussion of opposition to international corruption, and my name was raised accordingly. I worked hard to do so, and I may have heard my name as an experienced person. I'm nobody. I just came to the airport and got invited here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u124	Have a culture of conduct, colleagues, in Parliament. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich is handing Krulka over. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u125	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to be very careful right now what I'm going to say to Mr. Brown, who was presenting his candidacy. In accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules, a preliminary review of all matters brought before Parliament is carried out by professional committees. In accordance with article 26 of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, the Anti-Corruption Committee itself exercises control over the activities of the NAB. This is a requirement of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act and the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Maybe we don't need committees in this Parliament at all if we're being introduced? And that's why I have a question for Mr. Brown right now. Mr. Brown, considering that your candidacy has been filed in violation of the Supreme Council Rules, in violation of the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine Act, considering that you are in a serious position: to be an auditor of the body that is supposed to fight corruption, I would like to suggest that you, perhaps right now, publicly withdraw your candidacy -- and you will not be upset in this session room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u126	Mr. Ivan! Once again, I urge my colleagues to have basic respect for each other's relationships. It's really just a homage. I'm stressing to you, and from the very beginning, I've been stressing: in the morning, when the heads of the two factions came to me, I've invited lawyers who clearly explained that there could be a candidate in the room for a decision by the Supreme Council. And you don't just ask those political debates at the level of our guest who came and here today answers the question, represents. Colleagues, I'll give it to you on record. Please, Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna, Self-Help faction, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u127	I give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u128	Mr. Speaker, the honourable parliamentary colleagues who initiate this consideration of the decision is outrageous shame and idiotism. There was a competition, an open competition. A decision was taken by the committee, which was voted for by representatives of all factions, including Peter Prashenko's Block. The papers were distributed, and the nomination was put to the vote. For two months, I asked Andria Paruba to inform me of the date of the consideration of this decision in order to invite the Deputy Inspector General of the United States, the high official now appointed by the new President Trump, to an even higher office. What are you doing here? B.P., I have a cottage neighbor. He's a very good guy. Let us now introduce his candidacy and consider it as well! [[B in m in s a l in]] I have a huge request to Mr. Nigel Brown, whom I have never seen before. You're being dragged into a huge suit. Those who invited you and accommodated you in the hotel make you the object of manipulation and disgrace for the entire parliament. Don't agree to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u129	It wasn't a question, it was a speech. Lechenko Sergey Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u130	I am also a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee, and our committee has only considered one candidate, Mr. Storch. I have a question for another candidate who came out of Pandora's box in our session room. Mr. Brown, what are the names of the specific Ukrainian politicians you've been in contact with, whom you've seen in Kiev or abroad? By their names, you know them, and please name them out loud throughout the country. Because you're going to be an auditor of a major anti-corruption body in a state that's been mingling in corruption for 25 years now that's been looted, and where the people who robbed it are sitting in this session room. And the second question. Do you not feel conflict of interest? Because your biography is a solid business practice: you were employed in business consulting, you had business clients who paid you money. Could you be an open - minded auditor of an anticorruption body if your practice had previously been business - related?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u131	So, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's no other mechanism. It's almost time for Nigel Brown's answer. Please, one minute. Is there a need? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute to answer. Nigel Brown. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u132	First of all, let's say this first. You know how I got here, there's no problem with that. I can give you the full audit material from the moment I first communicate to my arrival and the hotel accommodation included. I paid for the flight myself, I paid for the hotel, I paid for everything, no one paid me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u133	Attention, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u134	I didn't communicate with politicians, I just did. Independence. The last thing I want to offer. An anti-corruption audit doesn't need a bureaucrat, and in my life, I've investigated the biggest financial crimes in the world, and in almost every case, those companies, some of them larger than the whole country, invited professional auditors, you need an independent investigator who can conduct an impartial investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor. Attention, there will be a vote in three minutes. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. But we haven't had the "will of the people" and "the Fatherland" speech yet. If you don't mind, give me a minute. Julia Volodymyrna and Ribczynski, and Knyazevich. Three speeches and a vote, colleagues. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I just want everyone in the room to understand what's going on. These are obvious things. Corruption in Ukraine is at the highest level of government: the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the National Bank, national deputies, ministers and so on. In order to control them, we need an independent completely expert. And such an independent expert was offered -- this is Robert Storch. But now it's obvious to everyone that President Poshenko, his environment, is now trying to nominate an addict, obviously, who's going to get the same kind of business money. And now they essentially want to leave the fight against corruption out of control from outside those countries that are supporting Ukraine today, including financial resources. Only Robert Storch needs to be voted on, and by no means.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u137	Please, Ribczynski, one. 30 seconds, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u138	And I want to ask the nominee now. Mr. Brown, who visited you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u139	Ribczynski, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u140	First of all, I would like to say to the Ukrainian people that Parliament is now actually turning into a market, into a market, it's a market total mass, unfortunately. I'm ashamed, I'm ashamed of my American colleague and I apologize to Mr. Brown for what's going on here. Excuse me, Mr. Brown. For me, Mr. Brown is the same as Mr. Storch, the price of a new man. Let us listen to a new person who has never been accused of corruption in his life? Look, you've been pinging on anti-corruption your whole life, for three years, who did you catch? There's someone who can help us, let's thank her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u141	Hence, the colleagues have concluded an explanation from the head of the Committee of Knazević and are moving on to the vote. One minute, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to take a moment to calm down, because there is an extremely important problem that is systemicly legislative and that needs to be resolved in the legislative plane, obviously not now, but necessarily in time. The point is that many today referred to the 26th article of the law, according to which control over the activities of the National Anticorruption Bureau on behalf of the Supreme Council is carried out by a committee to which knowledge is related. Attention! Coping with corruption and organized crime There is no such committee in the Supreme Council. The point is that such a committee existed in the Supreme Council of the past vocation. And when this law was written, it was according to the authority of that committee that an appropriate level of authority for the control of the NAB was placed on it. Since these powers are now divided between the two committees: the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption and Questions relating to the Organ-Criminality of Law Enforcement, there is a serious legal coalition that cannot be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u143	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u144	and the solution of which is possible only in the session room with further legislative changes. Therefore, we do not violate and move clearly in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u145	Colleagues, so I'm going to put both candidates first for the rating vote. Then, which of them gets more votes, we put to the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I first put to the vote the motion proposed by Robert Storch's committee, which was recommended here from the rostrum by the chairman of the committee. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Please vote. [[12:10:47]] For-76 76. Next. I'm voting on Nigel Brown's nomination for the two factions of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front, which were speaking to us today. Whoever supports this candidature, Nigel Brown, please vote. Please vote. [[12:11:16]] For 205 205. My colleagues, as a result of the vote, I think the best thing to do is to get the committee back to work on the ruling. You're in, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] What other suggestions are there, colleagues? Put it on. colleagues, we have two positions. One: according to the procedure, the one who won the rating vote, I put it to a vote. If it doesn't work, then I'll put it back on the committee for work. That's right. Do you understand the position? To the results of the rating vote and in accordance with article 26 of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, the question of the appointment of Nigel Brown as a member of the External Control Commission for conducting an independent evaluation (audit) of the effective activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. If you'll excuse me, colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[12:12:37]] For 214 Colleagues, I'll make the next suggestion to return to the committee for further work. I ask you, colleagues, to concentrate, please support the return to the committee for further elaboration of this decree. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support the committee for further work. Please be supportive. Colleagues, I vote. [[12:13:19]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We have two minutes left. I've got a statement about a break from two factions, and they're replacing it with a performance, and I'm inviting Oleg Berezuk to the speech, because there are children in this room, and so they don't expect me to, and I'm putting the faction heads on the application for two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Self-Help faction has over the last three months prepared, along with many of you, the Act on Occupied Territories, the law that is needed today by the army, the law that the BSS needs, the law that the border guards need, and today people are demanding by their blockade of trade in the blood of this law. Unfortunately, yesterday the committee failed to vote in favour of this law in order for it to be in the hall today. This law yesterday, I want to thank the border guards, the BSS, the General Staff, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Migration, these are the great men and women of the Ukrainian nation who worked on it yesterday and made it. But the fear of the owners of Parliament and of the owners of the oligaric owners of the state did not allow us to consider it today. No blood trade! Today's Self-Help faction, today most of the Self-Help faction, today, right now, it's going east from here to the boys to stand next to them and show that the blood trade is colonizing the Ukrainian state politically, economically and socially. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u147	George Logwinsky is now invited to the stand from two factions to the rostrum. And I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u148	Dear friends, I'd like to remind everyone who's here arguing badly or well, our present American, that's three years ago. A British, an American, or another foreigner, but three years ago there were invaders in our territory, three years ago there was an occupation in Crimea, which is why I ask you not to disperse and support us all, to support the children who are here. I ask permission to enter the children's hall, the children of the Crimean Tatar people, and the defenders to give a speech because three years ago there was the craziest rally against the invaders -- against the Russian occupation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u149	Please let the children into the hall. Please allow the children to come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u150	For a statement on the events in Crimea, please give the representative of the Ukrainian Helsinki Law Protection Group, Mr. Boris Zacharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u151	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u152	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you so much for the privilege of speaking in the Ukrainian Parliament. Creating an atmosphere of fear, powerlessness and hopelessness, terror against other people, war crimes, brutal violations of human rights, contempt for human dignity, substituting unbreakable values with Russian peace, total propaganda. This is a brief feature of Russia’s politics in the occupied Crimea. It's all about Russia and the occupied territory creating a totalitarian regime at a new level. The latent deportation of Crimean Tatars is under way, the ban on the mass media of the Crimean Tatar people, the prohibition of the entry into the Crimea of the leaders Mustafa Jemiliev and Refat Chubarov, the repression, the brutal violations of cultural and religious rights, the persecution of Muslims, the closure of independent media. In Crimea there is also pressure on all religious communities except RPCs, the churches of other religions are closed, and the practice of intimidation and persecution of journalists is widely used. One of the most resonant matters is the political process called February 26. Today, at 2:30 p.m. on the third floor of the towers, you will be able to read the presentation of an international expert's report with a detailed reconstruction of the events, where it will be demonstrated that this matter is politically motivated. Our organization, the Ukrainian Helsinki Association of Human Rights, supported this matter and many other matters in the occupied Crimea. Russia is running war crimes on the occupied territory. These are crimes that move their own populations to occupied territory, to force Ukrainian citizens, particularly prisoners, to the territory of the occupying state, to force them to serve in the occupying forces, to violate property rights, and many others. The active practice of Soviet intelligence services in the form of non-convictional disputes over dissidents is murder, kidnapping, torture, beating, intimidation. At the same time, Ukraine’s policies regarding occupied territory are not always deliberate and consistent. Such policies have a negative effect on those who live in and move from occupied areas. The order for moving goods to Crimea by decree of 1035 deprived people of the possibility of evacuating property from occupied territory. We look forward very much to the support of the people's deputies in the realization of the rights of criminals in order to eliminate discriminatory situations. But the main source of the human rights catastrophe on the peninsula is the occupation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. This is an unprecedented violation of international law and a challenge to the entire civilized world. The world, unfortunately, does not provide an adequate answer. We turn to our Western partners: You need to understand and remember that the Russian peace will only stop where it will be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u153	I invite you to speak to the head of the Crimson Family Society. This is an organization that helps families of prisoners in Crimea. When our brothers and sisters are captured, when they are behind bars, they should feel that they are, who will care for their children, their families. And please, Kurtseit's Anife, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u154	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'm representing a community organization called the Crimean Family. We have been working here since 2014, bringing together families of Crimean displaced persons. We have a cultural education center where more than 50 children are taught, but now we're here to talk about other children. As you all know, there are about 70 children left without parental care in Crimea, 70 children are just underage children, and the total number is much higher. Among these children are children of the beast killed in March 2014 by Reishat Ametov, also children of Oleg Sintsov, and children who disappeared without news and arrest. Most of these families are Crimean Muslims, where there are 3, 4, 5 and even 6 children in each family. It is hard to imagine how the parents of these children feel, and it is hard to imagine how the mothers of these children feel every day when they need food, clothing, medicine, and, in fact, survival. Among these children are children with major health problems. Here in Kiev we decided to help these children, because in Crimea there's an initiative group that works that helps, but that's not enough. So here in Kiev, it's our second action, the hand of help charity. Now in the Supreme Council, the best Crimean restaurants, the best East restaurants have brought the best. Our ceramics and other craftsmen, they represent their products. All this money we're going to raise today, we're also going to send the kids to Crimea. I've already said that we've been here for two years at the cultural and educational center and the children have been involved in a lot of activities, they represent our culture, our language, they sing and they dance. But each of them begins with a single verse. The poem was written a long time ago, still in deportation, but unfortunately it is still relevant. I invite our children to the floor. Now, listen to them, please, this is the voice of Crimea. [[Applause]] _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ When we return home to all the people, You'll have to remember where we came from. You'll have to remember where you're from. Unwelcome guests here. How could it be that you can't be obedient to dogs? We're asking your mercy to stop. And your pride is a reminder for ever. Skiffes and taverns lead the roots. [[Applause]] _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ When we get back, we'll all be back! One day we'll remember where it came from. One day we will gather in the plains or the mountains And it's fun, with music, to celebrate. According to your depths, According to your stories about the friendship of the peoples, When we were deprived of our liberty! They have taken away the Fathers, the Hopes and the Wills, Bridge from the ruins of the mosque road. [[Applause]] _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ For those who feed us today, We're gonna take off the people's jealous mask. And let them look us in the face, Don't hold back for power. [[Applause]] _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ When we get back, it's gonna be different. And let him who beats us weep with grief, As our fathers cried abroad, When their mothers were buried there. [[Applause]] _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ When we return, our earth will cry out And he will destroy his spirits in the valleys, He will return his relatives to the long-awaited east And the ashes of the fathers will bring them back to their offspring. We will cry to them tomorrow. We will ask forgiveness. And let us give the word that we shall never let go. Is it by his will, or is it a stranger, as before, For it is our memory and our hope. We've brought love to her in our hearts! Not all of them have been able to do so. But even whoever fell knew we'd come back. We'll all gather together under the sky!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u155	The term shall be given to the Head of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u156	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Three years ago, on February 23, 2014, nothing in Crimea felt an open invasion of Russian forces. Three years ago, February 23, 2014, there was a bright, sunny day in Crimea. In the central square of Simferopol, many thousands gathered to honor the memory of Noman Chelebijihan — the first head of the Crimean People’s Republic, the mufti of Muslims Crimea, Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania and Belarus — one of the organizers of the first Crimean People’s Court, the Parliament of the Crimean People’s Republic, convened at its first meeting in Bahchisaraya on November 26, 1917. Three years ago, on February 23, 2014, in the central square of Simferopol, tens of thousands of people — Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, Russians — bowed their heads in memory of Noman Chelebijihan, who was killed by the Bolsheviks on February 23, 1918 in Sevastopol, were also saddened by the tens of thousands of victims of the deportation of Chechen and Ingui peoples, whose expulsion began in the morning of February 23, 1944. People in the square prayed. They also cried for the souls of the heroes of the Celestial 100, whose funerals took place on those tragic days of February 2014 in various parts of Ukraine, where these heroes were born and lived. Three years ago, on February 23, 2014, tens of thousands of people gathered in the central square of Simferopol with high-ranking national flags of Ukraine and Crimean Tatar national flags, giving tribute to the heroes of the past and to the present day of Ukraine, were full of hope, and were developing plans to share the Crimea with the Ukrainian State, but then the debilitated, debilitated Kiev was not before the Crimea. A few days later, on February 26, 2014, more than 15,000 Ukrainian citizens, mostly the Crimean Tatars, once again following the appeals of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people to the walls of the Supreme Council of Crimea, in a peaceful, nonviolent way prevented the pro-Russian forces from blurring out the alleged legal separation of Crimea from Ukraine. However, neither the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies nor the military nor the executive executives of autonomy took any measures to protect Crimea’s strategic objects on that day, preventing the separatist activities of part of Crimea’s politicians. Early on the morning of February 27, 2014, the Russian forces began the phase of their open capture of Crimea. Dear Mr. President, I hope that my speech will be delivered to him, my distinguished colleagues, perhaps not all of us are well aware of the hope and respect with which hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens living in the temporarily occupied Crimea are watching over all of our actions, are catching our every word. Let's be honest, we are all particularly indebted to Ukrainian citizens who maintain their dignity and loyalty to Ukraine in conditions of total suppression of freedom and mounting repression by Russian invaders. We should be able to defend the Crimea as quickly as possible, in real protection of Ukraine, alongside Ahtem Chigos, Ilma Umerov, Ali Asanov, Mustafa Degermenji, Mikola Simeon, Emir-Useen Cook, Oleg Sons, dozens of other political prisoners who are deprived of their liberty and who are persecuted by Russian invaders. Declarations and statements are not enough. Mr. President, your honor, we are inadvertently delayed the establishment of a working group to prepare additions and amendments to Chapter X of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I would like to express the hope that it will be these days that the President of Ukraine will initiate the creation of a working group within a constitutional commission to make the decision. Ukraine alone now has the only effective key to depopulation of Crimea and Ukraine’s restored sovereignty on the Crimea Peninsula. And this key is the absolute natural right of the Crimean Tatar people to self-determination on their own land and in the composition of the Ukrainian State. We're not delaying this, Mr. President, and Mr. People's Deputies! [[Crimean Tatar expression]] Praise the Ukrainian nation! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u157	Dear friends, I've seen several of our colleagues have tears in their eyes. These are the tears that are now pouring our heroes into the Crimea, but they very much hope that this feeling that exists, right now in this room, should reign in any room. Same Crimean Day (I'm asking you to turn on the video, if possible) we did. Already, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was inspired by the fact that when people heard Crimean Tatar music in the Council of Europe when they saw children and other people dressed in Crimean Tatar clothes, they began to cry. Because we touched, not words, but the hearts of others. They understood, and it was a very important way, very important support for Ukraine was after these measures, already at the next session of sanctions regarding the Russian Federation were extended. And what's important to us right now is that, in any case, we can't forget the existence of our citizens who are fighting for us, who are helping Ukraine, who aren't leaving their own Fatherland, just so that there's Ukrainian tension, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian mentality. We must be proud of these heroes, we must support them. That is why today will be a separate day. A single move is a charity campaign for support, now a charity campaign, children of political prisoners. Each one of you, I understand that an electronic declaration can allow them to do so, to support them a little bit. We'll all be together. We'll support the faction. Tonight, at 6 p.m., there will be the same acceptance with diplomats. Everyone, please come and accept the criminals, this is very important to us. On February 26th, you see, these images, what was happening, how people without weapons came out and protected Ukraine. I don't know why we can't hear the sound, but there were calls "Crime-Ukraine! Get out of here!".. That's what we heard. [[Applause]] They went against it. You can see what happened. And you can't explain that, people were afraid for their own sake, for us with you. So I'm asking everyone, guys, let's find something every day that we can do. Thank you for including us. But you have to. Please on February 26, at 1:30 p.m. at the Hero of the Heavenly 100's Aleia, there will be a meeting of participants of the March of Solidarity. The same was true of the Crimea. On February 23rd, people gathered and said, "We support Midan! We support people!" They prayed for people who had died. But anyway, we know that we're going to win, we know that as long as we're fighting for Crimea, it stays Ukrainian. And everyone in Crimea is looking at us right now and asking if there are people in this room who are willing to keep them going? I'll tell you. "Eh! Everyone's going to support it." [[Applause]] We're with you, we're with the criminals, these people who are behind bars, this is their photo, you can see the exposure, they need to know what the people are with them, with them parliament, with them their country! Mili Watham Crimea. Crime is Ukraine! Crime is Ukraine! Crime is Ukraine! Crime is Ukraine! Crime is Ukraine! Crime is Ukraine! Thank you all!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! We thank all the organizers of this very important action. Once again, I would like to stress that today is the day of the Crimea Parliament. We invite you to join the charity fundraiser, see the exhibition about the anniversary of the theft of Ukrainian Crimea. Children, you will surely return to Crimea. And Ukrainian politicians need more unity and understanding. I announce a break to 12:50 and invite everyone to join the charity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the continuing room, please. My colleagues, I want to remind you, we have today, we are standing here, a block of finance and banking. In detail, the apparatus studied these bills, the factions consulted and previously supported all the factions of those bills. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and continue our work. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. And I'm asking the people's deputies who are in the towers to enter the hall to continue our work. Colleagues, we go into the hall and we move on to the financial and banking cluster. There are four bills. So, colleagues, let's go for it. The first bill, this is the draft Law on simplifying the procedures for the capitalisation and reorganization of banks (No. 6010). Colleagues, I'll be the first to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support, please vote on the 6010 cut-off procedure. Please vote. [[13:01:33]] For-94 Not enough. So let's move on to the full procedure. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u160	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, the banking system of Ukraine has not yet recovered from the deepest economic crisis. Some banks need extra capital injections. Last year our committee stopped trying to destroy dozens of small and medium-sized banking institutions because of the impossibility of recapitalisation. Why is it important to protect honest small banks? Because the main task of any country's government is to save citizens' money and businesses, it's our main resources for economic growth. Small and medium-sized banks in successful countries lend the most to small and medium-sized businesses, and it ensures the stability of the economy. So it's important that we keep sound banking institutions. We are obliged to give banks the opportunity to survive. It is necessary to simplify as much as possible the process of making additional capital from owners as possible, as well as the process of reorganization or unification. The adoption of this law will allow for a smooth reconstruction of the banking sector, avoiding another bankruptcy, panic and increased pressure on the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the state budget. There's money in the project: the bank can't stop. may terminate banking activities without the liquidation of a legal person and continue to work as a financial institution, but meet all obligations to bank investors. The failure to comply with sometimes dragon regulations of the NBA should not be the reason for the closure of banks, the expropriation of property, and the transfer of liabilities to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, from which every Ukrainian will pay. This is a document that we voted last year to continue implementing the strategy for the development of the financial and banking system. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, in its February 7th meeting, recommended to the Supreme Council that the bill be voted on as a basis. But given that the recapitalization deadline is ending in June, I ask you, honourable colleagues, to vote in favour of this bill as a whole, and to allow banks in the third and fourth categories to survive in these difficult economic conditions. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u161	Sergey Viktorovich, stay in the rostrum. Three minutes question to the reporter. Please hold the recording. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u162	Please tell me this bill greatly simplifies the procedure for holding general assemblies, and in my opinion this could lead to attempts to raid banks. Due to the shortening of the deadlines of the general shareholders ’ congregations, the cancellation of the mandatory message may be a trivial seizure of the bank. For me, it is a serious danger that lies within the body of this law. And I'd rule those innovations out of him. Although it is here, well, an objective improvement in the ability to transform banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u163	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, first of all, it's the law until 2020. And secondly, raiding, I think we can talk about raiding. Many questions to the National Bank itself, which some banks send to the trash, and others, perhaps a month or six months, are kept in the water to get the money and assets out of there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Demczak Ruslan Evgenyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u165	Well, I don't even want to ask you any more questions, I want to ask you a line. And I'll explain a little bit more to my previous colleague on the basis of the question. That's the whole point of having to do with some of the rules of the Civil Economic Code. In this case, we need to adapt them so that they do not interfere with the unification of these banking institutions. And given that this law has a temporary effect, i.e. it is limited to August 1, 2020, it allows us not to change legislation that has a permanent effect. So this is a necessary step. Because in this way any small shareholder can by judicial decision block this merger. And the goal is to enable banks in general to be saved. And few such mechanisms can be used specifically to block such unifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u167	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I suggest, if there are no more questions, I reiterate that this law is very important, we do not have much time to allow banks to unite or recapitalize in a simplified manner. I think that we, as the Supreme Council, have to make countermeasures so that both investors and lenders and banking institutions themselves (I emphasize, small and medium banks, and these are banks that work on a more classical scheme) can work on the market. Thank you for asking, Ruslan Evgenyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u168	Thank you. Thank you for the report, Sergey Viktorovich. Now we're moving on to the factions. And I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups, please. Please, Gusak Vladimir Georgievich. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u169	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head. One of the biggest crimes against the Ukrainian economy in the past three years has been the destruction of the banking system in Ukraine. In three years, the number of banks in Ukraine has declined by half, from 180 to 90 banks, and further reductions are expected this year. There's a lot of accusations and a lot of claims before the banks were taken out of the market. According to these pessimistic estimates, tens of billions of dollars were lost and stolen. This is the refinancing that the National Bank of Ukraine has been giving to banks and it's often given this refund 1-2 days before these banks are declared insolvent and this money just disappeared, and the investors have lost their money. As a result, confidence in the Ukrainian banking system is almost completely destroyed. In three years, the Ukrainians took $11 billion from the banks. For comparison. Now, the government is negotiating desperately with the International Monetary Fund to get a $1 billion loan, another tranche, and for that, $1 billion, the government is willing to cancel the moratorium on land sales, on rising retirement age and on freezing social benefits, while simply because of the government's policy over the past three years, people from the Ukrainian banks have taken three times as many as 10 times as much. And without money in the banking system, and without confidence in the banking system, about which credit can be spoken about, about which small and medium-sized business is being credited. And without that lending, we're not going to have any economic growth. And Ukraine will continue to be like a beggar walking the world and swearing loans. What is involved in this bill? It would seem a good idea to simplify the process of reorganizing banks. But this bill violates the rights of creditors. For example, in the event of a decrease in the statutory fund of banks, creditors will not have the right to demand a timely commitment, as has been accepted in the civilized world. This bill too. This bill violates the rights of investors and therefore our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u170	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u171	This bill, despite a good name, violates the rights of creditors, violates the rights of investors, and our faction will not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u172	Thank you. Next up, Oleg Valeriyovich. And Ribczynski gives the word to Lášk, so six minutes for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u173	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party of Ukraine. I was one of the five Ukrainian national deputies who did not vote in favour of the appointment of Valeria Gontareva as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Because this person went out to this rostrum and was asked if she was dealing with the banking system, if she understood anything about it, she said she had never done it in her life, but she would certainly learn. And for the third year, President Prašenk Valery Gontarov's stance has been on how to destroy the banking system. There was this famous film called "Gentlemen of Good Luck," and then one of the heroes said, "Travel on cats." This is how Gontareva trains the Ukrainians, destroying the banking system. When millions of Ukrainians have lost their savings, about tens of thousands of businesses have lost their circulation costs and their assets -- these are the results of Mrs. Gontareva's training, which are too expensive for our country and for every Ukrainian. Because when the National Bank of Ukraine does not change its foundations of monetary policy without lowering interest rates on loans, I ask, how can economic growth be achieved in the country. How can our farmers, metallurgists, miners, builders, small, medium or large businesses develop when they don't have cheap and long loans? How can they be competitive and competitive compared to their foreign competitors? No way. Because the policy of the National Bank, which it manages, by the way, the International Monetary Fund, is aimed at removing the circulation costs from the Ukrainian economy, at monopolizing the banking market, what we see today in terms of Russian aggression is half the banks represented in Ukraine are banks with Russian capital. And then we wonder where the Russians are taking the money to send the so-called Humcones to Donbas with hails and shells, resulting in the deaths of the peaceful inhabitants of the occupied area and our courageous military personnel. Because Nazbank’s poor policies finance the invader, when it allows it from the inside, from Ukraine to raise funds and finance the Russian army. That's why we've repeatedly called on President Prashenko because according to the Constitution of Ukraine, it's the President's sole mandate to submit to the Supreme Council for the release of Hontarev from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Unfortunately, President Prašenko doesn't do that. Why doesn't he? I have the answer to that question. Mrs. Gontareva came from President Prashenko's business, and today they're actually continuing to do things together. But the National Bank of Ukraine is a private business, even if it's a business of a man of honor like President Poroshenko. The tasks of the National Bank of Ukraine are monetary assets, actions by all of them to promote economic growth in the country, not the destruction of the banking economy and, as a result, the theft of Ukrainian citizens. That is why the faction of the Radical Party initiated and I thank all fellow deputies of almost 180 people's deputies of Ukraine signed under a draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine to extend the powers of the National Bank of Ukraine. Today, article 99 of the Constitution stipulates that the only function of the National Bank of Ukraine is to ensure the stability of the country's monetary unit. We propose to extend the requirements and authorization of the National Bank and to provide for the function of the National Bank not only of maintaining stability of bracelets but of moderate interest rates on loans, promoting employment of Ukrainians. Because with such interest rates on credit, with such monetary policy, with such economic policy, and more precisely its absence, which we see today in Ukraine, Ukraine is forever doomed to be a banana republic. Millions of Ukrainians are now searching for ways to leave Ukraine and there, somewhere abroad, to find employment, income, and the opportunity to feed their family. The Radical Party proposes a radical change in this policy so that people do not run abroad, so that they can work here in Ukraine, make money for Ukrainians to create jobs, and that our people can feed on their own names. Can we do this without radical change in monetary policy? No, we can't. Because whatever government there is that is not a prime minister who is not a minister of finance, but without the National Bank, without working together between them, it is impossible to achieve economic success, economic growth. Today, the National Bank of Ukraine supports the stability of the currency exchange rate due to the laundering of gold reserves, which, in turn, are formed at the expense of the International Monetary Fund’s loans. And it has to be the other way around: the guarantee, the guarantee of stability of the bracelet, is an increase in our country's export potential. As a result of supporting the national manufacturer, so that we can sell more products abroad, so that more currencies will return to Ukraine, so that more Ukrainians will have jobs and a decent salary, only then will we have a guaranteed stable bracelet. And we're not waiting today for the decision of the Washington General Party, as previously awaited by the decision of the Moscow Communion Party. The country’s fate should depend only on Ukraine’s powerful, rich, economically developed and independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u174	Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, when some factions voted in favour of the adoption of today's budget, they all had to understand clearly, and this was noted in the report of the Court of Auditors' explanatory note that the generally balanced Ukrainian budget was largely at the expense of the funds spent, based on the issue of additional, devaluations of the fines. And at the time, we all had to be clear that Pottereva was a key figure, a key figure for this budget to be balanced, and that Groisman could give people a kind of budget, where expenses and income are balanced. We see that the private bank equipment, when it was nationalized, gave the National Bank an additional opportunity to introduce more than 100 billion dollars into the issue. And today, every Ukrainian feels that as prices go up, the inflation rate that's been set for a year is going to go up in one month. Well, we're looking at a guy who's the cemeteries of banks, who's made sure that the circulation costs in small and medium-sized businesses are eliminated. The proposed bill is aimed at a civilized solution to the issues of not liquid and troubled banks. Dear colleagues! The bill introduces voluntary pooling of banks with a view to stabilizing their position on the market, as well as voluntary withdrawal of the bank from the market and voluntary recapitalisation. The idea as a whole is right, because really today's legislation has made all the procedures listed very cumbersome and complicated, that even if the bank owners wanted to recapitalize the bank, they would not be able to do so with the difficulty of bureaucratic procedures. For example, the merger of banks has more than 50 legal stages, each of which requires cooperation with regulators. The bill greatly simplifies these procedures, but it has to be noted that what I said in my question is that simplifying the procedure for holding general assemblies can lead to an attempt to raid banks. In the short term, reports of general shareholders ’ gatherings, cancellations of mandatory shareholders ’ notice of time and location may result in conflict situations, especially considering that the majority in shareholders’ associations count from those present, rather than from the total number of voting shares. And the quorum, we recently dropped you to 50 percent plus one share.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u176	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u177	There is also a misunderstanding about converting privileged shares into ordinary ones. This may cause a change in the distribution of property in statutory capital despite the will of the owners. I believe that the bank should determine for itself what to do with the privileged shares after the merger. I propose to support the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u178	Thank you. Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! I'm very glad that we've gone through the procedure, let the people get together a little bit, and I want to explain the point of this bill. We have 54 percent of the banking system today, this is the government sector, these are state banks. 35 percent is foreign-capital banks and only 11 percent are left with banks with national private equity. Even if there's a privatisation of state banks, who do you think will buy it? They're buying aliens because there's no internal resource, no investor. Therefore, the purpose of this bill is to support, even though some 11 percent of the banks, to help them recapitalize. So I'm asking you, listen to the professionals, it's not the National Bank, it's the market asking, asking us, MPs. And we, members of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, have supported this initiative in almost every way and have simplified the process of recapitalizing and reorganizing banks. The law, I'm going to try to explain very simply, because every voice is very important right now, and there aren't enough people in the room right now. It consists of three blocks, the first block is a reorganization of the bank by joining, which predicts, a reduction in the periods of individual existing procedures during the merger procedure. The other one. The definition of the status of the successor to the requirements and liabilities of the bank, for imagine how many investors there are, how many loans there are, how many messages, and this is all to be done in such a way as to automatically move from one bank to another, the receiving bank. Because there are many, many legal consequences. Third. Also, the successor bank is exempt from payment of any payment and collection related to the maintenance of assets, because the taxpayer can view this transfer as a sale. That's why we took this one, too. It's like this element. The second block is the voluntary cessation of banking activity. It allows banks to decide, in the absence of a recapitalisation option, if they do not find someone to unite with, to terminate banking activities without the liquidation of a legal person. Unfortunately, today the bank is unable to do so, and they must eliminate and eliminate the legal person. The procedure is very difficult. What's the point? In 180 days, the bank has to shut down. Now, I want to go to the previous speaker here because one of the factions said that this is where the investor rights are violated. One hundred percent, not 200,000, but a hundred percent of the bank that wants to leave the market has to pay off all investors, all legal persons, all natural persons. If he does so in 180 days, then the National Bank will release him with God. And it can -- the main thing -- reclassify to another kind of financial institution, for example, to become a credit union, maybe an insurance company, or to incise, or exchange currencies. So we give shareholders a chance to get out of the market, because now they have one option: either in the grave, into the Deposit Guarantee Fund, or take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u180	Please finish for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u181	Which, like in other fields, there are no. And the third block is simplified capitalization. So again, we're shortening the deadlines for the submission and consideration of the National Bank, the Antimonopoly Committee and the National Securities Commission. The market is waiting for this bill. I'm asking you to support this bill today, we've talked to many factions, on the basis of the whole. There are voices in the room. The main thing is for people to come to the hall right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's still a performance from the People's Front faction. Please, the People's Deputies of Polyakov. People's deputy Polekov, please. It's the factions that come from the factions now, and then it'll be from the MPs. No, he can't tell you because the faction just gave Demczak a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u183	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As far as the bill is concerned, it is, in fact, long awaited and expected to be marketed. He is civilized and opens up pathways that have not yet been found. The question is that once the bank is left with a license, it will have the opportunity to do other entrepreneurial activities, and that's very important, and that's another thing -- the transfer of assets, which was also not allowed, the recapitalisation. And the main thing is the accelerated paths of all of these projects, which are necessary, they're all clearly prescribed. So the People's Front faction will support the bill and the request to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u184	Thank you, colleague. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we are going with you in full procedure to discuss the bill. And now we've got a statement to make from the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm told they haven't been able to sign up for the People's Will. Please, which one is it? Ribczynski, please, National Deputy Ribczynski. And then there's a record to discuss it from the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u185	Eugene Ribczynski, 211th constituency. The "will of the people" group as a whole will, of course, vote in favour of this law, it's a necessary law for the country. But I have to say very unpopular things that somehow don't sound in the hall. We're taking crazy loans to the IMF, crazy people that we're going to pay not just us and our kids, but maybe grandchildren. But we don't mind that billions of Ukrainian money, the richest Ukrainians, are in foreign banks in Cyprus, Panama, Switzerland and so on and so forth. In about three years, no one has been able to say two very important words, "amnesty of capital." If there was an amnesty of capital, these billions came to Ukraine, the bank rate wouldn't be 30 percent, it would be a maximum of 6-7. Because they are now paying for the deposits on which their money lies. We used to get 0.35 for billions that lie abroad. If these billions came to Ukraine, we wouldn't just have the economy, we would have the banking sector as the country's main. But they don't want to, because they're afraid, they're afraid to bring money into the country because they know that power is always the main rider. If we adopt such a law, I'm absolutely sure that money will enter the country -- and we don't need any IMF loans, and we're really going to be independent and free. I'm counting that it's not just 6010 that has to be the law on banking, and not only Gottaareva there, and so on, and so on, and so on, we have to bring Ukrainian money to Ukraine this year. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u186	Thank you. Colleagues, please sign up for a discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u187	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, first of all, I would like to point out that this is, well, another such proof of the horror of this executive power, and generally the work of the coalition that we have today, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine is forced to change legislation in order to adapt to the orders of the National Bank of Ukraine, under the decision of the National Bank of Ukraine. That's bullshit. I mean, instead of having the National Bank of Ukraine working professionally, the Supreme Council has to change the country's legislation in order to adapt to the foolish orders of Gottari. I regret, therefore, that the coalition continues to support the Hontarevo, and that it is still covering for the maximum. And you have to finally do something with it to the coalition if you don't want people to just take not only Gontareva out of Natzbank's feet forward, but also those who support her. And if you're specifically talking about this bill, of course, the bill is 90 percent good. But, as often happens, we have good ideas about all kinds of nonsense or underwork that will then lead to the failure of these good ideas. And that's one of the reasons why, in particular, we have the banking sector working as it is now, because it's not just the NBA that's weak, the management of the NBA, and the legislation that's a little bit short. Well, look, you propose, for example, in this bill to use terms like, quote, "other actions" (art. 1). What's "other actions"? Where is the legal definition in general? Article 2 part six, "package of documents." The package of documents is not defined. Part 1 of Article 3: State authorities." What government authorities? That is the mass of legal inaccuracies that will actually lead to a failure to properly implement this legislation. Then let's move on. The bill proposes restrictions on the rights of creditors and shareholders in the organization of the bank. And that would be appropriate only for transformational cases. In other cases, such restrictions seem to be a major limitation on property rights, and all other cases of the organization are due to the creation of a new legal person, i.e. merger, merger, division, separation. And they demand a settlement of the issue of debt, that is to say, such things cannot be used for anything other than transformation. Also a very interesting point is that in section 10 of section 4 of the bill 1 it is established that the successor bank is exempt from payment of any payments, taxes and assemblies. Excuse me, what is this, "freed from paying taxes"? What do you mean, any tax pay? How's that? Well, secondly, this should be prescribed in the Ukrainian Tax Code and be passed by a separate law, not in this legislation. That is why I insist, under the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, that I insist and ask the presiding officer to listen carefully now so that the bill is adopted exclusively in the first reading. Only in the first reading. For the second reading, we're going to work, we're going to take all these moments into account, and we're not going to take the pile wrong again under a good idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u188	Thank you. Next, please, National Deputy Osuhovski. Please, Mr. Osuhovsky. You're gonna come out of the rostrum? Please. He's giving the word to his colleague. Excuse me, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u189	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. My fellow Members, in fact, the situation in the banking sphere should draw the attention of the active parliament and adopt a number of changes in the laws that could save our financial sector, because in recent years they have shown thanks to the activities of the Head of the Gontareva National Bank, which virtually destroyed more than 80 banks, which have increased primarily the capitalization of Russian banks, which out of 10 percent now in the Ukrainian financial market represent more than 40 and this trend is gaining more and more threats, and is able to control the financial market in Ukraine, and is able to control the Ukrainian economy, and it affects the national rate of the bracelet because the intervention of so-called Russian banks will be able to push our course. That's why this bill is in principle positive, and in the first reading, our political power will support it, because it allows our national banks to self-prove this capitalization and meet the requirements that are now under the NBA and thus enable us to preserve them, because the threat now stands for dozens of other Ukrainian banks. So our task today by Parliament is to support this law in the first reading, and all the remarks that Jurko Levchenko has just read into the second reading take into account and make changes. Because today the financial stability of our state is very important and today we must make it easier to cut down on the account rate, give impetus to our economy, our business, give a boost to the available credits for the Ukrainian producer, for the Ukrainian economy, so that jobs can be created so that we don't have to go abroad to earn money, and that the Ukrainian economy can finally work, but without confidence in the banking system, but without confidence in the banking sector it's impossible. And this was shown by the electronic declarations of the main top officials, including the Head of the National Bank of Honduras, who does not keep savings in banks, but keeps these millions under the mattress. So there must be renewed trust, confidence in the banking system, but this can only be done when the management of the National Bank is changed, because Gonnaareva is discrediting the banking system at all, this person is causing total damage to the Ukrainian economy. And our task today, the Ukrainian Parliament, today to amend the Constitution, to give Parliament the right to resign the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. We have repeatedly addressed, but unfortunately there are not 150 signatures in Parliament that would be willing to make these changes to the Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine. And I call on the MPs to listen to the Freedom position and allow Parliament to send an unworthy leader to resign. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u190	Dear Mr. Mikhailo, thank you. The national deputy of Ukraine, Novak, gives the floor to his colleague Paul Rizanenko. Please, Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u191	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. National MP Rizanenko, 97 constituency, Kyiv region, member of the Financial Policy and Banking Committee. A little bit to understand why this law is needed. There are requirements for banks, not just in Ukraine, but everywhere very hard on statutory capital, to the size of statutory capital. Because the bank's reliability, including most depends on its own statutory capital. In Ukraine, the capital of banks must be 500 million dollars. But this norm, it's delayed and it's gradually moving from a certain date from today's 120 million to 200 million, which is going to become a valid one, it seems, July of this year. And then we know what happened, more than half the banks are out of the market. If you say by asset, half of the banks by asset, 50 percent of the assets are government banks, 35 percent is said to be foreign-capital banks, and only 10-15 percent are left with Ukrainian private banks, they're actually small banks. And it's these banks that don't have 200 million dollars in most of the capital today. But after that cleanup that happened, it's more or less healthy banks, but it's about 60 or 70. So we're talking about a lot of banks, they're small, but a lot of them. The equity -- we know what the situation is -- the owners of these banks don't have it today. So recapitalize, get the money out of your pocket, and you don't have to add it. So they're going to have to be eliminated from July 1st of this year. The law is called upon to enable them to unite at a rapid pace in a few months. Existing legislation provides for the possibility of reorganization through merger, unification. But the procedures that are in place in the current legislation for shareholders, associations, including banks that are shareholders, can take more than a year. So they can't do that. The law is called upon to simplify the procedure itself for reorganization banks by unifying them so that Ukrainian small banks can unify themselves, increase their capital, provided that two banks of 120 million dollars together are already 240 million, and they comply with the requirements. Banks that don't have enough capital today by number, not by assets, but by two thirds. So the law is important. And I want to make one more point. He went back to the committee several times, worked on it and so forth. It's very important to take it immediately, because if it's accepted in two months, they won't be able to do anything. Therefore, please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u192	Thank you, colleagues. Please, this is national deputy Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u193	Thank you very much to the authors for working on this bill, because the problem, particularly in small banks, after their decapitization, is familiar to us and we understand in principle that there are few remaining in the market and that they need to be decapitized or somehow simplified in order to avoid these bureaucratic obstacles, allowing them to unite quickly. But the only point I have is when I look at the text of the law itself, and this is actually a separate law, and I, when I look at the conclusion of the Central Scientific and Experimental Authority, which has very many observations, and in particular indicates that there are no proposals and positions for the National Bank of Ukraine, particularly under the law, I have a question whether we can vote for the law on the basis and in general, or perhaps on a reduced procedure, but quickly work on how to work it out for the second reading, because in the banking sphere, in particular in such important systemic laws, every word or any error, it can lead to collages and misunderstandings. So I have a lot of warnings, maybe there's further questions or questions and answers, in some way we can further base and explain the possibility of voting as a whole as a law. Either by normal procedure or by rapid procedure, prepare him for second reading and avoid possible mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u194	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Now there's going to be a closing statement, I'll give the floor to the representative of the National Bank he's here. I now ask the secretariat to inform the deputies that in a few minutes there will be a vote and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Chamber. Please give the floor to Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! We rarely seem to be able to have professional discussions on whether or not there is another question, and now there is and I would like to express some reflection on the problem. You can't talk about restoring economic growth and stable economic development without a healthy banking system. What we call an economy is served daily by the multibillion-billion-dollar turnover of the banking sector. And if you have problems in this sector, not only do you have problems in banks, you have problems in the economy. The problem Ukraine faced was not what happened yesterday, yesterday, or a year ago, or three years ago. This is a problem that haunts the banking sector, has grown these problems over the decades, and especially they have worsened after the 2009 crisis, 2008-2009, after the devaluation of the national currency, after the mass of loans has become problematic and banks have been unable to meet their commitments. So now a decision has started, a part of these decisions is to rip out healthy banks, those banks that essentially can't do their job. Obviously, I'm going to join the choir of those who make claims before the bank liquidation procedure, because there's a lot of questions. In fact, a transparent liquidation procedure allowed largely to use the resource from the sale of problematic assets and to make little use of the National Bank’s costs. But what was going on in the process of getting the bad banks out is the right thing to do. Because dead banks, unhealthy banks in the body of the economy can't do good, this part is right. There's a second part about banks that can be cured. And what kind of decision is made in this regard? Recapitalization or recapitalisation, or in other forms of recovery. And when we talk about how banks can be cured, these decisions need to be made very quickly and quickly, the banks don't have a long procedure, because the problems in the bank, if they don't solve them, can't be solved anymore. In this regard, I support the ideas laid down in this law, and I would urge my colleagues to uphold this law. Obviously, there may be comments and additions to it, and I am not sure that we can accept it in general today. It needs to be voted on as a basis, it needs to be clarified, and it has to be adopted by law, because it is important for Ukraine to face a sector to which there is confidence, without which there is no stable economic growth in Ukraine. So I encourage my colleagues to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u196	Thank you. As promised, I will give the floor to the representative of the National Bank, First Deputy Smolius Yakov Vasilovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u197	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the National Bank has been involved in drafting the bill in its drafting and I would like to highlight the following points. For whom is this bill? A bill for banks that need recapitalisation and have a transparent ownership structure. The bill optimizes the procedures for capitalization, restructuring banks through integration, and the cessation of banking activities on its own initiative. The bill allows to shorten the terms of corporate and regulatory agreement for the entire merger process, the terms of the review of documents, and reduce the number of documents, shorten the length of the legal process of merging banks from one and a half years to three months, as is the case today. The simplified capitalization is possible for all banks if the origin of the funds to be invested is previously confirmed. It is anticipated that a bank license may be revoked without the liquidation of a legal person. It is proposed to solve the problem of ensuring continuity of customer service to a bank that joins the entire reorganization process. Shorten the time limits for excluding separate existing procedures, review the existing procedure for banks participating in the merger. Identifying the origin of the liability of the bank. The bill improves and contributes to the stability of the banking system, strengthens the protection of investor rights and prevents additional pressure on the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons. The National Bank proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u198	So, colleagues, here's the closing statement and then we're going to the vote. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. I ask the secretariat to report that we are now moving on to a decision and asking everyone to come into the hall. And the final word I'm giving to the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking is "Sergey Viktorovich." Please, Sergey Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u199	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I'm very sorry that we have to deal with the problems of banks of the III-IV to save them, so that they can work, give jobs, pay taxes so that investors and borrowers can be protected. But why is this happening? I don't think the National Bank has an effective financial and banking sector development strategy today for the next 5 to 7 years. That's why, on the basis of our committee, we developed this strategy, we adopted this strategy, and we recommended that the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank develop a series of laws on this issue. And this bill says that you and I are on our way to rescue the banks of the third and fourth groups. If we talk about this bill in simple words, what happens? The deputies of the seventh call voted on the bill in which they commissioned the National Bank to recapitalize from 120 million to 500 million. Such a plan and such a decision of the National Bank was, and 50 million according to this decision banks III and IV groups were to recapitalize. But a year ago, the National Bank changed this decision and made it impossible to recapitalize it: from 120 million to 300 six months, another 100 million a year and another 100 million a year. Can banks, under economic conditions today, carry out this recapitalisation? Obviously not. That's why I think we should be able to survive by banks today. These are banks that are lending today to small and medium-sized businesses, these are banks that have investor accounts, business accounts. And we have to do all that with you to enable these banks to work today. I would like, given the need for this bill, to suggest that you vote for it as a whole. Come on, Andriy Volodymyrovich, let's put this bill on the ground and then vote in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u200	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The discussion is over, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we take up jobs. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you to come into the hall and make a decision. Colleagues national MPs! Please! So let's go to the vote. Colleagues, please, I am voting on the draft Law on the Simplification of Capitalization and Restructuring of Banks, which is supported by all speakers and also by the representative of the National Bank, who is all supported, number 6010, on the basis of his colleagues. Based on the base. Please vote, please support 6010 as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. On the basis of that, please support. [[13:50:25]] For 218. Colleagues, a few. I see, please come into the hall. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, please take your jobs. Colleagues, please wait 30 seconds, invite a colleague to the hall. Please take up your jobs. I'll be back in a minute. Please take up jobs. In fact, all factions support. I think we're about to make a decision. A large number of national deputies entered the hall. Ready to make a decision? Please, we're taking up jobs, colleagues. And let's move on to making a decision. And I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 6010, which is supported by all factions and also by the National Bank. Please vote for return to 6010. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:52:13]] For 235 We're back. And now I'm putting the draft Law on simplifying the procedures for the capitalization and reorganization of banks (6010) as a basis. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:52:41.]] For 235 Decision taken. Colleagues, the next bill, it's not complicated, and we're going to look at it: 4960 and 4960d. It's a bill. Sorry, draft Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities (1800). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Review of the simplified procedure. Vote. [[13:53:24]] For 168 168 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polyakov Maksim Anatoliyovich. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please, Maxim Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u201	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities is being brought to your attention. According to Ukrainian law, lombardes refer to financial institutions. The Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that relations in the banking and financial spheres are governed exclusively by Ukraine’s laws. Unfortunately, so far there is no law that regulates the relationship between pawnbrokers, customers, third parties, and the state. Thus, there is a situation where the huge financial market segment is virtually not regulated at the legislative level. Moreover, it is evident that there is a lack of protection for citizens who are forced to seek out pawnbrokers and borrowers at the level of a special law. In 2016, 467 pawnbrokers and more than 4 and a half thousand separate units operated in Ukraine. Their assets have doubled over the past two years, and they have made over 3.3 billion dollars. Lombards are the last hope of getting money for the socially vulnerable and undersecured populations themselves. People put the last one in the pawnshops for a living. Legislative imbalances are the basis for an increase in the criminogenic situation. There have been repeated calls by the IMF regarding the use of pawnbrokers and the sale of property by thieves. The most important positive point is that the project is proposed by a new, separate special law on the specified sphere, which is now regulated only by regulations. The law proposes to regulate general economic legal and organizational principles for the creation, operation of pawnbrokers; to clearly define the concept of pawnbrokers and pawnshops; to establish a transparent order for the introduction of pawnshops for the provision of financial credit and property storage activities; and to standardize the enhancement of the protection of citizens who use pawnshops. Ensure that the State manages control, surveillance functions for pawnbrokers. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u202	Please, 30 seconds. Get it over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u203	The bill is supported for adoption on the basis of proposals made by the National Commission, which regulates the state in the field of financial services markets, the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. So, colleagues, the request to support a bill to get us out of the shadows and legalize that those pawnbrokers who work honestly pay their taxes and, above all, guarantee people their contributions so that they can pay them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u204	The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of the Fishing Committee, Sergey Viktorovich. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u205	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Law on Lombard and Lombardy remained open for almost two years in Parliament. It was recommended by the committee as early as March 2015. This is one of the few sectors of our economy that is rapidly developing in the last two crises. To survive, people take the last one to the pawnshops. Last year’s market volume exceeded 16 billion dollars according to official data, but its activities are not yet regulated by legislation. Our main task with you is to protect people who use pawnbrokers and create mutually beneficial conditions for cooperation between the market and the state. For example, what protection can a pawnbroker provide in a small kiosk where there is not even room for a safe? Thus, the document defines the economic, legal, and organizational principles of the activities of the pawnbrokers and regulates the supervisory functions of the state. The National Commission, which regulates financial services markets, supported the bill on the basis of some observations. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The committee considered it in March 2015 and recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u206	Thank you. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall. In a few minutes, there will be a decision to make. Please return to the hall, then your bill will be the same. Let's have a very brief discussion of two -- in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in a very concise way. Please hold the recording. Onufric, Peter Dusty Block. Danielne, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u207	Please pass the word to Victor Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, the 1800 law is essential today for the simple reason that the market really needs regulation. For almost 15 years, there have been pawnshops and their active activities, but until the last moment there is no valid regulatory act that would have closed many gaps in this market. At present, we see that there are many fraud schemes on the market, and the invulnerability of citizens, so the adoption of this legislation is absolutely necessary and urgent. The People's Front will vote in favour of the bill. We call on all of our colleagues to support as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u209	Colleagues, this is the closing act. I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall, please inform the deputies to come into the hall, and in a minute we'll move on to the decision-making process. Now, please, the closing statement by Ivan Krulko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u210	Ivan Krulko, faction of Fatherland. The "Fatherland" faction at its meeting has examined this bill in great detail, and it is our decision that this bill cannot be supported today, it must be sent for very serious elaboration and I will explain why. The point is, of course, that a law is needed to regulate the issue of pawnbrokers and pawnshops. But, dear colleagues, it is not the way it is proposed. The law deals with everything but the protection of those who will be loaned to pawnbrokers. Why? Because the law limits the general rule on the obligation of pawnbrokers to adhere to consumer rights legislation. In addition, the law stipulates that the project does not require the granting of licences at the expense of the funds involved. Please tell me, what will this turn into? Unfortunately, this bill has corrupting factors. And that is why we will ask Parliament to send such a bill for further work to remove all the corrupting factors that it has. Or another rule is that the area of the lombarde can be at least 5 square meters. 5 square meters is contrary to all possible sanitation requirements and physically prevents citizens from having normal reception and service. So let's look at this in public terms, work out the law, and really introduce one that will primarily protect the rights of borrowers, those who are the last to be brought into the pawnshop to solve problems and pay, particularly those dragon tariffs that people today just can't pay and the last to carry in the pawnshops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities (No. 1800) as a basis, colleagues. Please, on the ground. Please vote and please support, colleagues, as a basis. Please vote, please support. [[14:02:26]] For-164 Colleagues, I'll put to the vote the next sentence to return to the committee for further work. Will she be supported? Colleagues, I'll make the next suggestion to return to the committee for further work. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please support the committee for further work. [[2:02:59]] For 184 184. The decision is not made. And the last is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, please support the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Let's vote, let's support it, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[14:03:29]] For 181 181 – yes. The decision is not made. So the draft law of 1800 is rejected. Colleagues, we've had an emergency and I give the floor to the head of the Igor Greenyve's "Peter Prashenko Block." Please turn on the microphone for the message. Turn on the microphone Igor Greeneva.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u212	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! In fact, an extraordinary event took place in Odessa in the middle of the day when a Ukrainian national deputy was kidnapped by unknown people, Alexi Honcharenko. I'd like to contact the law enforcement agencies, the prosecutor's office. This information is confirmed today, and I've just spoken to the district attorney. I would like to refer to the leadership of law enforcement authorities for the timely establishment of a special headquarters in such a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-02-23-m0.u213	Colleagues, I support the demand of the head of the Igor Greeniv faction. And I believe that law enforcement must immediately take all necessary measures to ensure that this situation is resolved. And I ask you to define this as a statement from the Head of the Supreme Council from Parliament. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work. I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work for the evening session. Thank you.
