ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. We'll start our work. Please prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. [[10:02:05]] There are 340 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Natalia Volodymyrovna Katzer-Buchovsky. Please welcome Natalia Volodymyrna. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman has received a call from two MP factions, from the MP's People's Front faction and the deputy faction of Peter Poroshenko, asking to announce a 30-minute recess in the plenary. According to article 51, part seven, I announce a 30 - minute recess in the morning session, until 10 a.m. 30 minutes. Break till 10 o'clock for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-15-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. People’s deputies, who are more loyal to the two factions who have requested a break, insist that they make their way out of the rostrum. Although this is not in line with the rules of the Rules, under the insistence of two factions, I give the floor to the national deputy Yuri Berezi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-15-m0.u3	Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! In my country, in our country, tonight, more precisely last night, there was an event that I can't and none of the normal people can get around. There are people who have not studied the history of Ukraine, and even these people are in the walls of parliament, and they do not remember that centuries ago, through chaos, fraud, and all the other events that took place in Ukraine, we lost our nationality and were captured by an eastern neighbor for 100 years. Yesterday, in Kramatorsky, a national deputy said that the head of the business police, Alexander Malish, the fighter of the Dnipro-1 regiment, was seriously injured in Ilovia, coming out of that world, came back to life, went through police training, and led the Kramatorsky police -- he was a model of the police. National MPs or national deputy, who, under his mandate, by his credentials, allowed himself to be beaten by police officers. I don't know where we're supposed to go or where we're supposed to go. I know clearly that no national MP has the right to allow himself to spread his hands to those who are not protected from them. Please tell me, Chief Malish, wounded, injured, how will he protect himself from the National Deputy? Now, I'm going to, I'm going to go to the chairman in the hall and invite the police to this room to talk about what happened yesterday. How does a national deputy allow himself to be treated by law enforcement officers? There's all the people who've been through the war, they're all hurt and wounded. And so I ask, Madam Chairman, to allow the floor and to give the floor to the National Guard and the National Police, I ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-15-m0.u4	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-15-m0.u5	This is a requirement of three factions. We stress that today is the issue of the survival of the state, the survival of the Ukrainian Ukraine, which is now being plagued by an external enemy. The inner enemy rejoices with this one who sits in this room! Rejoice with that! We didn't get them here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-15-m0.u6	The morning session is closed.
