ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration so that we can start a new productive day. Please take up jobs. Please take up jobs. I'm gonna run the registration now. So, everyone in place, can we register? I'm asking the people. Wait a little longer, huh? Okay, I'll wait. The factions have just ended, so we'll wait another 30 seconds for everyone to get into the hall. Can we? We can. So I'd like you to register with the National Deputies. Please register. [[10:06:49]] There are 357 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, I'll explain the logic of today. So we have the First Law of the Law on Changes to the Law on the Principles of External and Internal Politics. The second law is a reform of Parliament, which we together in the working group with all the representatives of all the factions have been able to discuss and come to a single decision. Then there are two laws on health reform, medical reform and two laws on judicial reform. We should be looking at these blocks by noon. And so my request is that there be intensive and active work. After lunch, it is planned to move on to a block that was predetermined and prepared by the committee, tax and customs policy. In order for us to get through all the issues, it is important for us to work together and effectively and not to let the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine fail. Colleagues, ambitious plan for today. I hope, more than that, I'm sure we can implement this ambitious plan. Let's move on to the agenda. And the first law is the bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (about Ukraine's foreign policy course) (number 6470). And I will now propose to vote on it in favour of a reduced procedure. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Can we vote? And I would like to support the proposal to review the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (6470) under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please back up! [[10:10:00]] For a hundred and We didn't make it? I'm gonna do it again. Colleagues, I'm going to put it to the vote again. I'm going to ask you to take your seats. It's a very complicated law, but it's very important and fundamental -- about the priority of Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance. I ask for your support, and I am voting once again on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (on Ukraine's foreign policy course) (number 6470) with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:11:26]] For-144 I'll do it again. Colleagues, why don't you just tell me what you're looking forward to? We then have the medical reform required by the hall, there's the medical reform that society is looking for, and if we go into all of the full-procedure laws, we just don't get to those issues. And I don't know what's so comforting about it. If the hall is united around this issue, the question of joining NATO, let us discuss quickly and make this decision. Is there any backup? Come on, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the consideration of draft Law 6470 by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, vote, colleagues, please support. [[10:12:31]] For-164 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, a word for the bill's report is given to the author of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (about Ukraine's foreign policy course) to Parliament Speaker Andria Paruba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u3	Good afternoon! Once again, please pay attention in the hall, we are considering a very important bill. I want to remind you that the 9th of July is 20 years old from the date of the Charter of Special Partnership between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance. This is one of the basic documents between Ukraine and NATO. The agreement was signed by Ukraine and NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana and the leaders of 16 NATO member states on 9 July 1997 in Madrid. And I want to say, without exaggeration, since then, the Russian Federation has done everything possible to prevent Ukraine from getting closer to NATO. Without exaggeration, it can be said that all those 20 years for the Russian Federation were essential that Ukraine do not enter the most effective security system in the world. And to a large extent, this has led to Russian aggression, her desire to have a veto at the country's foreign policy course. But today there have been important changes, and for the first time in 20 years, support for joining the North Atlantic Union in Ukraine is supported by the majority of the population in Ukraine. And so, I'm sure the time has come for us in Ukrainian legislation to be able to clearly declare Ukraine's wish to join NATO. In recent years the Ukrainian army has become one of the most effective and effective armies on the European continent. And that is why, I believe, Ukraine's entry into NATO today is as important for Ukraine as it is for North Atlantic. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u4	Please add 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u5	And for the North Atlantic Alliance. Today, NATO is the most effective system and the only organization in the world that can stop Russian aggression that can stop a Russian aggressor. So I call upon all the national MPs, all the patriots who care about Ukraine's security, to support this bill today and now in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head. And the word for the report is given to Boris Tarasyuk, deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, Your Honor, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting yesterday, June 7, considered a bill introduced by the People's Deputies to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts (on Ukraine's foreign policy course) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basic and in general, subject to the exclusion of section I, paragraph 2, from the text of the bill. The aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as the ongoing war in Donbas, has led to the urgent involvement of Ukraine in the system of collective security that NATO is. The experience of a number of countries, the neighbours of Ukraine, shows that in today's conditions NATO is the most effective tool for ensuring its security. So the major expansion of this organization in recent years is also a convincing testimony to this. The purpose of the bill is to amend Ukraine's laws on the principles of internal and external policy and on the basis of Ukraine's national security to restore Ukraine's targeted pragmatic course on NATO membership as a strategic foreign policy priority. According to the Explanatory Note to the draft, the law will not require additional expenditure from the state budget and local budgets. The main scientific and expert office believes that this bill can be adopted as a basis. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support the committee's decision and to adopt the Act amending certain legislative acts on the basis and as a whole, provided that section I, paragraph 2, of the bill is excluded from the text of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u8	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain. What we're going to do now. In fact, this bill is going to re-edit the Ukrainian National Security Principles Act of 19 June 2003. That's what we're going to do today. Should we do so? You have to. Why? Because the Supreme Council has finally gained the courage to renew its NATO membership course without any words that indicate that we need to acquire criteria for NATO membership. I would like to remind you that the appropriate formulation for the NATO membership course to resume this course, which was cancelled at the time of Januković's decision on July 1, 2010, was introduced by a bill on November 27, 2014, which we, together with Julia Timoshenko and John Krulko, introduced. And we were just proposing what is being offered today. Unfortunately, our bill at the time was rejected and, instead, a draft of the Presidential Law was adopted, a bill that envisioned a weakened formulation of the NATO membership course. That's why we're here. I propose, on behalf of the Fatherland faction, because this coincides with the position of the Fatherland faction, to support this bill, because it is returning to NATO membership, which we proposed to renew in November 2014. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u10	Thank you. Please, Kostenko Pavlov Petrovich. He's giving the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u11	Living on the verge of an age-old enemy-deposit who for hundreds of years destroys a Ukrainian man, Ukrainian values, without an army, without protection. Why has Ukraine’s desire as an institutional state been halted during the last 20 years as part of Europe’s security system against desertification and authoritarianism? Because it is the enemy’s interest to ensure that Ukraine does not have its army or participate in security systems. You want peace, get ready for war. Pacifism, or pseudopacifism, led to the fact that the Ukrainian army was virtually destroyed. But the Ukrainian people are not destroyed, who have established and protected Ukrainian territory, Ukrainian values, and Ukrainian people. Going to NATO is primarily to take care of the Ukrainian soldier, his spirit, his material condition, his weapons, care and develop the Ukrainian army. Going to NATO is to take the values of respect for a soldier who protects Ukrainian women, Ukrainian children, Ukrainian people. And that's the first problem. Today you and I know that in the Coalition Agreement -- the coalition is broken down, and the deal remains real -- we have declared with you: the path to NATO is the way to independence, independence and will of the Ukrainian people. NATO's security system is a secure system of peace. As we go to peace, we must prepare for war and protect ourselves from the age-old enemy of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people. The self-help faction supports the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u12	Thank you. From the People's Front, Yuri Berez.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u13	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to read a thesis from the Washington Treaty on the possibility of collectively defending freedom, the common heritage and the civilization of my people, based on the principles of democracy, freedom, person and the rule of law. This is the basic philosophy of the NATO bloc. I know our country has lost a lot. We lost because of a bunch of jackals working for Putin, who were using the Ukrainian army. And this flock of jackals, unfortunately, is still in this room. We have today. Today we have a civilizational choice: where we will be, who we will be with, and how we will be. The Ukrainian soldier, who is now risking his life to protect the Ukrainian independent state in the East, is waiting for us to make that decision. This is a major, most important decision, probably in the last three years, because maybe if we had joined NATO in 2006, we wouldn't have listened to the crazy stories of Kremlin jackals in the 2009s, we probably wouldn't have had a war. Probably not lost during this undeclared war in the East a better flower of the nation. That is why I call on all the national MPs who are in the Chamber, who are in the Parliamentary walls, to come and vote. People's Front will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction, our team supports Ukraine's NATO course. NATO is a collective security system. And we have no doubt that if Ukraine were a NATO member, there would be no Russian aggression today. 20 years ago, a charter signed between Ukraine and NATO. In 20 years, Ukrainian authorities, which were, could meet all the requirements that would allow Ukraine to become a NATO member. We could, but we couldn't. The security system, the defence system, they sold out including the military and military units, and they missed a unique chance that Ukraine would have at the Bucharest Summit in 98 to get a NATO Membership Action Plan. But then, the then prime minister, according to German diplomats, did everything to block Ukraine's membership, the NATO Action Plan. Today we have to correct the mistakes of President Kuchma, Prime Minister Timoshenko, Prime Minister Yanukovic, other prime ministers and presidents who were in independence. They are all collectively responsible for the fact that Ukraine is not yet a NATO member, they are all collectively responsible for the military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine today. Because when Putin attacked Crimea, it was necessary not to be a dove of peace and be a Moscow zesula but to protect the country, protecting every foot of the land. Today, we have a chance to correct this mistake, protect our home country, and protect the lives of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u16	So it was called Fatherland, right? It was called a last name. Wasn't your last name named? Timishenko, yes. Please, one minute, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear friends and everyone who listens to us now! The treachery in this room has already reached its climax, especially from the bells. I would like to remind everyone that on January 11, 2008, I signed a personal request to Ukraine for a plan of action for NATO membership. This document has been considered and it has been decided that Ukraine will be given a Plan of Action for NATO membership. But the change of power, including on the basis of falsification, when Yanukovic came to power, all of this was stopped. NATO's entry is a software principle for the "Fatherland" party. And when I was running for President, it was one of the main strategic directions of our actions, and that's how it stays. We also announced the launch of a referendum on NATO accession.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u18	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u19	Yeah. We've collected the required number of signatures. But the new post-revolutionary authorities have already prevented us from holding a referendum on Ukraine's NATO accession. They said it wasn't in time. That is why we have been and remain absolute supporters of Ukraine's accession to NATO. And all the other speculations of all people, don't take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u20	From the Opposition Block, Yuri Timoshenko. Oh, I'm sorry, Mishchenka. Yuri Miroshnichenko. Excuse me, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! You know, really, Ukraine is going through an extremely difficult historical stage. Many challenges, including national security, to defence issues. And, of course, these issues need to be discussed in this room and decisions should be made. With great respect to the Coalition Agreement, to the authors of this bill, I would like to sound our faction's position. We need to start looking at national security issues first of all on economic issues: raising and creating new jobs, ensuring budget fulfillment, and social support for our citizens. And with the power of financial, economic, building your own security system. As far as joining international security organizations is concerned. Of course, this must be preceded by a serious discussion at the level of the National Security Council and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u22	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the bill of the day will be considered. We ask him to be considered as the basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u24	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. Please invite everyone to the hall. In two minutes, the vote will take place. And I would like to invite Irina Heratchenko. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I will be speaking from the faction of BPT, who has delegated me to the high office of First Vice-Speaker. And I want to thank those consistent politicians who have stood for many years in the Euro-Atlantic direction of Ukraine, and among them, of course, is the faction of Peter Prashenko, Andri Parubai. I remember very well all the events of 2008 when, in fact, France and Germany made their biggest mistake when they did not give Ukraine a Plan of Action for NATO membership in 2008. And their reason for not giving up was that there was no consolidated position in the Ukrainian politics. A signed letter and a consolidated position are very different things. And it was because there was no consolidated position that the Russian Federation dared attack Georgia. And only President Yushchenko and "Our Ukraine" then spoke NATO -- and Russian aggression in Georgia -- no. But no one came near them. I would like to thank Boris Tarasyuk, Andrew Parbia, who, along with me, asked the then Speaker of Parliament and the Prime Minister to gather their factions then and hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council, where we would condemn aggression against Georgia. But everyone was then on the beaches of Crimea, which is now occupied. And it is we who sin that Ukraine is not yet in NATO that we must atone for it. Why is it so important to accept this document today? You know, there's 50 percent of those people in this room who talked until Ukraine in the Donbas war, they're gonna give us no money. They're giving it to us. As long as Ukraine has a war on Donbas, we will not ratify the treaty. We ratified it. Those who believe in Ukraine win. That's why we have to ratify today. accept this document. And as for the referendum, that's a very important question. But the worst part about foreign policy is falstart. God forbid, we're gonna need another forklift.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u26	Thank you. And let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (on Ukraine's foreign policy course) (No. 6470) to propose a committee on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! We will maintain Ukraine's security, support Ukraine's NATO accession. [[10:34:34]] For 276 The law is passed. In fact, this figure shows the real majority in the Ukrainian Supreme Council Hall, which is capable of building the future of Ukraine, which is capable of protecting Ukraine's national interests. Thank you, colleagues. I want to thank everyone who has joined us, especially our parliamentary delegation to NATO, Irina Fries, for preparing the document. And we're moving to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine "On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" and "On Central Executive Authorities" on optimizing the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and their relationship of knowledge with the spheres of activity of ministries (6256) and (6256-1). I would like to remind you that this is one of those bills that the working group has been working on to reform parliament, and I ask that you support its consideration by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:35:51]] For-182 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite the author of the bill to amend the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities on optimizing the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Speakers of the Parliament of Andria Paruba. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to listen carefully to the logic of this bill. First of all, implementation of one of the parliamentary reform positions agreed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the European Parliament. This position was chosen by a working group established in the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the most compromising and unifying position. More than five meetings, six meetings were held by a working group, and the bill was singled out as one that would unite the hall. What is his main logic? The logic is to make changes in the formation of the governing bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next call, I stress, the next call. And there's two positions. The first position that there should be no more than 20 committees in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that all of us, when we came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this convening, stressed that the number of committees should be reduced. Moreover, in many European states, the Constitution lists the number and list of committees so that they do not become subject to political bargaining. In this position, we are doing a great service to the next Parliament, to make it more efficient. Another position of this bill foresees that the Committees of the Supreme Council and the Ministry of the Cabinet of Ministers should normally be related in order to have more harmonious cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. These are two positions that are simple and that, I believe, will unite the hall. I ask that all the people's deputies from all the factions support Parliament reform and vote unanimously in favour of this document, he proposes to accept only as a basis. Colleagues, I hope for our common and only position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. The first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization Work, Paul Pinzenic, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u30	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! At its meeting on 24 May this year, the Committee reviewed the draft Law amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities on the optimisation of the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the relationship of the subjects of their knowledge with the spheres of activity of ministries introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine by Peruby, Greenish and others. I also considered the findings of the Committee on Prevention of Corruption, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed project is designed to implement paragraph 17, the recommendations of the European Parliament mission adopted by the Supreme Council on 17 March 2016, which states that in the structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the next call is proposed to provide for a smaller number of committees, ordinarily 20, which should be clearly related to the spheres of activity of ministries. As for the contents of the bill. The Committee generally supports it. There are some questions that need further development in the second reading. In particular, the committee noted that the bill proposed to amend part four of article 5 of the Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but that the provisions of article 8 of the Act concerning the specificity of the liquidation of committees did not provide for the order of liquidation of committees in the event of the reorganization or liquidation of any ministry. But this can be further developed into second reading. The committee is ready to do so and requests the session room to support the decision on the basis of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u31	Thank you. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in, against. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u32	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u33	Mr. Ruslan, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Indeed, reform of Parliament is a very important element in order for us to be able to change our state radically. Because in conditions where the Republic is parliamentary-presidential, the ability of Parliament depends on the quality of government work and the quality of life of every citizen. And in order for us to start these changes, we need to take the first step. Yes, this bill may not seem too practical or too important to anyone. But we must begin to form our committees as those who are able to make decisions. We need to change the philosophy of making decisions on parliamentary committees. We need to ensure that the government and the relevant ministries are the very derivative and accountable committees of the profile, so that ministers don't run on two, three, four committees, and as a result the most important function of Parliament is lost, this is a function of parliamentary control. Without parliamentary control, we will not be able to ensure quality government decision-making, nor will we be able to adopt quality laws. So this bill is important to adopt at least the first reading so that we can start this way and give a positive signal to our Western partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u35	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The work of the Ukrainian Parliament requires, not cosmetic changes, as is suggested today, but radical profound changes. Yesterday's permanent closure of Parliament's work in connection with the implicit MPs is the discrediting of parliamentaryism, which is extremely indignant to people. The Radical Party faction therefore proposes radical systemic changes that will force the power to work for the Ukrainians. We propose to amend the Constitution and reduce the number of members of the Supreme Council to 200. 200 people go to work -- that's enough for Parliament. We propose to cancel the MP's intrusiveness and implement the recall mechanism of the national MPs, and to limit not more than twice the term of being in the deputies, because unfortunately, many people come to Parliament, and then, as the foams moss grows, they can only be removed from the walls of this building by their feet. Ukraine is also a parliamentary-presidential republic, but the Ukrainian Parliament has no influence and control over the President and the executive branch of power. That's why the Radical Party team registered more than two years ago and requires the immediate adoption of the Law on the Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council to be real instruments of parliamentary control, and the adoption of the Law on the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine in order for any person, whether today President Poshenko or tomorrow President Ljashko, to be accountable and subject to the law and Ukrainian citizens, and to have real parliamentary control over the activities of the President and the executive branch of government to be the control of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u37	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" by Misik Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u38	My fellow Members, indeed, the bill is open to us to make changes to the Rules, but I would like to remind you that we have a lot of important questions about the Rules. So let's start with a group working with our European colleagues that made changes to the regulatory rules that regulate our activities. In addition, there are commitments that have not yet been implemented by Parliament. And I want to remind you that everyone has promised that changes to the Rules will be adopted on issues of opposition activity. The relevant changes to the Rules are registered in Parliament and unfortunately remain motionless. And today, MPs who don't join the majority, or major MPs, are different in rights with MPs who today make up the parliamentary majority. This is a problem for Parliament’s activities. The other one. We are working today in a parliament that has a large number of parliamentary committees without leadership. Up to now, the human resources issues have not been resolved in the middle of Parliament. We have only recently succeeded in bringing new deputies into Parliament, and they have started their work. But this did not take away the problem that in most committees, there is no leadership on many committees today. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you to note that we need to step up our work on resolving administrative issues on the parliamentary committees. With regard to this bill, it can continue to be considered and further elaborated on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u39	Thank you. Mr. Valérie, all these bills are on my personal control. It's just that we in the task force are choosing those bills that might have support in the hall. And by the way, your representative, who works very actively in the group, was actually one of the active agitators for this law and called on everyone else to support it. So I hope that your group will vote unanimously for its support. Thank you. From the People's Front, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Vojciekhovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u41	Please, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! In today's review of this first law on changes to the Rules, I hope that we will accept it as a basis and, of course, the People's Front will support the Head of the Supreme Council in changing and reforming Parliament. As a member of the working group, I want to say that the government has taken a very active part in the drafting of this bill and this law. And that's very important because it's worked together with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the Supreme Council. But as a member of the working group, I want to point out once again that when we bring up the number of committees in relation to ministries, we have committees that have no direct bearing on ministries, and their fate is not defined today. In particular, this refers to the Human Rights Committee, and in particular to the Committee on Equal Rights and Opportunities. This applies to the Committee of European Integration, which does not directly refer to the Ministry. Therefore, until the second reading, we must resolve these questions, and this was decided at the last meeting of the working group in Irpen under the chairmanship of Mr. Cox. Next question. When we reduce the number of committees, the next bill we have to introduce a bill on the quality of committee work and change its form to the majority. It was the committee, not the hall, that brought part of the discussion only directly to the voting room and increased the role of these committees. The People's Front will vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u43	Thank you. A very good observation said to Mrs. Svetlana that the next bill was to increase the role of committees, and that would be a separate discussion, and I'm sure we'll get to it. And as for the ratio, we've generally noted the ratio of committees and ministries. Thank you. From. Now. From the Opposition Block, and then from the Fatherland. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u44	Thank you, fellow citizens of Ukraine, for now the Bill 6256 is under consideration, which is simply intended to set up a branch to meet the requirements of the Cox mission so that we can reform the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should begin with the direct and direct implementation of the provisions of the current Ukrainian law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we see the opposite in practice. No one, especially the person who presides, does not comply with the Law of the Rules, violates the rights of opposition. Now they're talking about increasing the role of committees, and why, when appointed to chair the committee, didn't they assign any office to the opposition force, the opposition bloc? For some reason no one has spoken about compliance with the Rules, but now they are talking about the need to reform the Supreme Council. You have to do the law, that's the first. And then get busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u45	And the closing statement will be now. A vote will take place in a minute. I ask you to invite all the deputies to the Hall and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the heads of the factions. No, yet, yes, two more shows per minute. Please, from Fatherland, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u46	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is really going to be supported by the Fatherland faction because there is no need to produce a number of committees in Parliament. But actually, honestly, this law is the fight against the consequences, the metastases, but not the fundamental systemic issues that need to be addressed in this room. Because the question of the number of committees, it's the result that, today, the issue of coalition activity is not settled, it doesn't exist in Parliament, there's no Opposition Act, there's no Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council, there's no Law on Impeachment of the President, there's no Law on Elections of National Deputies on a Proportional Basis. This is what needs to be decided, because these are systemic issues of the activities of the Supreme Council and the country. Before we fight metastases, let's think about our system of organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Well, there's one more thing. Of course, we support, for example, that there be a committee on the basis of the Committee on Budgets, which includes tax issues and financial and banking issues. There's got to be a committee. But we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u48	But we will not be in Parliament without committees such as the Human Rights Committee, where there is no relevant ministry, the Committee on European Integration, where there is no relevant ministry in the government. We can't help but have to create an audit committee that controls the budget costs separately from the committee that's in charge of budgeting and budget allocation. This is going to be a systemic approach. So let's make a clear list of committees before the second reading and really reform the Supreme Council. But at that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, one minute. And in a minute, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u50	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. This bill is another example of how in the Supreme Council everything is often turned upside down. I remind the People's Deputies that we now have a parliamentary republic. Well, someone calls it parliamentary-presidential. But in fact, if legislation were to be implemented, if the President did not control his faction, it would be a parliamentary republic. Why should Parliament in the Parliamentary Republic be subject to executive authority? Well, what's the point? Well, Parliament forms executive power in the parliamentary republic, not under executive authority. What is this anti-constitutional nonsense, I'm sorry? Well, not to mention the things that, of course, in this way, the bill will lead to the abolition of the anti-corruption committee and other committees that do not have their ministries. Clearly, then, he cannot be supported in this way. If you want to fight that MPs don't go to the committee, take away such deputies from the mandate, accept the relevant bill. This will indeed be the struggle for discipline in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Obviously, not all colleagues simply read the bill. There are no committees, there is only a set of numbers. And I want to emphasize that the Cabinet of Ministers is forming ministries under the structure of the Supreme Council, not the other way around, colleagues. It's a proven bill and it's supported by everyone. Yes, it's not complex, because when a complex general was proposed, unfortunately, it wasn't supported. So in the working group, we came to realize that we need to take small steps on matters that can unite Parliament. And today this bill is one that has a chance to unite the entire parliament. So I ask you to prepare for the vote and take your seats. And I ask everyone to support this bill. So, colleagues. Colleagues, I ask you to stop the discussion at the time of the vote. Jaroslav. And I'm voting on a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities on optimizing the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and their relationship with the spheres of activity of ministries (No. 6256) on a basis, colleagues, just on a basis. Please vote, please support. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[10:56:08]] For 210 Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. I just didn't understand what was going on. Because a member of the working group actively supported the matter. This discussion is over, I just don't get it. I just don't understand how you can go to Paris and promise reform, and when you're in the hall, say you didn't agree. A member of the working group supported this legislative initiative. A member of the working group took an active part. If you are delegating, please give him the authority to do so. Colleagues, I'll be right back. It's just the first reading. All factions had the opportunity to speak during the discussion. I ask, colleagues, to vote in favour of the return to debate 6256. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. Please support the return. [[10:57:25]] For 216 I'll do it again. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back again. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and get ready to vote. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. And I want to stress that this is the basis of a bill that was agreed upon and unanimously supported by the entire working group. Colleagues, please prepare to enter the hall of colleagues. I want to ask all the members of the task force in their factions to do the work. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 6256. And I would like to point out that this bill was fully in line with the European mission and with President Cox. The full word for word was agreed upon. Please vote, please support the return to debate 6256. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Can everyone vote? Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:59:46]] For 219 Please turn on the factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 107, National Front – 70, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 2, Radical Party Ljashka – 16, Fatherskina – 6, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth Party – 1. Colleagues, let's mobilize. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So, colleagues, please, I'm putting the vote again, we've had political consultations, and I think we're about to make a decision. I would like to point out that we have arranged for a working group, that we deliberately and specifically do not give a list of committees now in order to unite the hall. This is a separate discussion that can take place between the first and the second readings. There is a logic to this parliamentary work. Between the first and the second readings of the law, colleagues, that is the essence of the parliamentary work. And once again, it was completely consistent with the European mission of Cox, the word for word, to one another, but he was publicizing. The discussion was concluded, and a word was given. And I would like, colleagues, to vote on the proposal to return to the consideration and vote in favour of Law 6256. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone, the voice is important, and I'm asking everyone to take the job and vote. Everyone in place, please, right? I ask you to support the return to the 6256 reform of Parliament and the result of our cooperation with the European Mission. Please vote, please support, colleagues, every vote matters. Please, a vote, a vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Hold on, Andrew. [[11:03:15]] For 216 I'm betting on going back to the committee for work. But I'll tell you, these things are reported in advance, not during the vote. Colleagues, if I were to return to the committee, rework? Please take your seats. Now I'm going to put it back on, if I don't, I'm going to put it on the committee for work. So I'm putting it back on now, if there's no votes, we're going to vote, we're going back to the committee for work. I'm asking 6256, return to 6256, please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:04:32]] For 221 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, they're all here. Should I put it on the committee or at once? To bet more, yes. Because you know, it really is when we're sitting with President Cox all the factions promise support. I stress that this bill is a word-to-word supported by President Cox and the entire European mission of cooperation. We spoke to him in six sessions, and he was supported by all the members of the working group. It's just mean when it's not supported right now. Colleagues, why don't we exchange our thoughts for a minute? Let's exchange our thoughts for a minute. Do we vote? Vote. I'm asking you to come back, and I'm asking the members of the Ruslan task force to do the job, to return to 6256. I ask you to support the return to 6256 and please vote, colleagues. I ask you to support and vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:05:53]] For 218. And I'm making an offer to send it to the committee. I'm asking you to make an offer to return to the committee. Or let's exchange our thoughts. Let's exchange thoughts, colleagues, per minute. Next thing you know, I'll be there in a minute. Peter Dustock's Block, Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u52	Yuri Solovay, a member of the working group on the draft. Dear colleagues, I am, by the way, addressing colleagues from Self-Help. We worked, if I'm not mistaken, the speaker will confirm, about three months during working groups. In fact, all the comments were taken into account. But when we bring this project into the hall, we need the whole community to know why they don't vote, because there are the personal ambitions of some committee leaders who want to be saved on committees, destroying the system of parliamentary work -- that's what's behind not voting for this bill, and society should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u53	Thank you. People's Front, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, well, this is a disgraceful situation. Like eating French brides in Paris, they are like eating Norwegian herring, they are. They discuss, they say smart things, they don't vote. They're in favor of the meeting, and they're in the session room voting against it! That's a shame, that's a substitute. So I think we should finally support the speaker, Andrey Paroby, who is personally concerned with the reform of the Supreme Council. And you don't want to do that. You go on air, you tell me what reformers you are, anti-corruption, and you don't vote for it. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u55	Opposition Block, Dludenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u56	Dear citizens, I will explain what is happening: we are now trying to reform the Supreme Council with a grave violation of the Rules -- the fifth or sixth time we return to the vote. As I said before, the main way to improve the effectiveness of the Supreme Council is not to change the Supreme Council's Rules, it's to carry out a valid edition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's to uphold parliamentary control, the basic principles of parliamentary opposition control. Now, in fact, the opposition has been removed from the parliamentary control process, it's not represented in the governing boards. And now we're just doing a formal follow-up to the recommendations of the European Commission. The Opposition Block doesn't have any ambitions, we don't drive in Paris and Stockholm, but we urge you to abide by the Rules and not violate the right of opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u57	Thank you. Pisarenko, right? No, I'm sorry, the size of the factions. Now it's "self-help." Self-help, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u58	Thank you. So am I. I have the honour of being a self-help member of the task force, the only one who, by the way, made amendments and who made specific proposals to these bills. And I'm confirming that actually right now, this is actually not responding to the agreements that were in the working group. That's the first one. The other one. We specifically suggested that those committees that are important to the opposition, which are primarily important to people because they retain parliamentary control over corruption, they retain parliamentary control over human rights, they preserve the possibility of European integration for Ukraine. There's nothing in this bill, even though it was agreed. Now, with regard to the real reform of Parliament. It's all a cover. In fact, the real reform of Parliament is the new Elections Act, it's introduced, it's in Parliament; the TSC Act, introduced in the early days by the Fatherland, is also in Parliament; the removal of immunity from MPs, self-help, it's also in Parliament. We have to vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u59	I'm just gonna let you know that there's no lie, it doesn't. There are no committee names here, colleagues. And I remember when we went to Parliament, all the factions stressed that we needed to reduce the number of committees. Was it or was it not, my friends? It was like that, wasn't it? Here is suggested to implement your position from the first days: reduce the number of committees. Obviously, we deliberately failed to make a census, deliberately failed to make a list of committees, usually written together. Please, Pisarenko from Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u60	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, the Rebirth Party has just held a consultation. We emphasize once again that we have unresolved issues with you. The unresolved issues that you promised on the first day, how opposition and coalition were formed here. There's a lot of people here saying you need to do something. The coalition has already changed several times, but it will resolve the issue of amending the Rules and the rights of opposition. The relevant bill was registered two years ago. You don't do anything about it. Please do. And not when you're out of the coalition and you're demanding something, but at any time, let's get together and do it. And with regard to the redistribution of committees, it's also important, but it's not the first question. First, let us amend the Rules on Opposition Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u61	Radical Party, Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Me and my team are being humiliated by this drive of yours for the committees. May you fight for the people, for their wages, for their pensions, for the employment of young people, for the housing of children with mothers, as you struggle for committees, for your asses to fit into soft chairs, for the service of a car, for the service, and for all the other pontoes that these committees offer. Don't fight for it! Fight for the people! First. The other one. The real reform of Parliament is the return of the Parliament to the weights of control. That's why my team, we've registered bills on the President's impeachment procedure and on the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we believe that these laws must be adopted in order for Parliament, as an expression of the interests of the people, to have the power of control over the activities of the President and the executive power.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u63	All factions have expressed their positions. Let's go to the vote. Please take up your jobs. I would like to point out that there are no rules on how many times in the Rules. This is not a violation of the Rules when I put it. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. So invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. A member of the task force, please take up a job. Solovay! Guys, guys, please. So, colleagues, I'm underlining, there's no question of how many times to go back. I'll put it back again. Remember, this is the first reading, and this was a joint position in the working group -- to give a list of committees, and to give just a number. Once again, I propose to return to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on Parliament Reform (6256). Please support the reform of Parliament, our commitments to the European Parliament by our decision and our vote in favour of the return to 6256. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:14:55]] For 214 The decision is not taken. And I'm going to make the next offer. The bill is to be sent to the committee for re-reading. So I'm voting a motion to have Law 6256 sent to the committee for a re-read. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Please vote for the re-reading. [[11:15:45.]] For 229 Decision taken. And, dear fellows, such things must be warned. It was fine during the day. The member of the working group made it clear that he supported it. We've lost a lot of time. Such things could simply have been warned and reported. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is the draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Services, 6327 and 6327-1. We had two positions: one for us to consider in full procedure, the other for short. We have limited time, so let the room be determined by voting. Whoever supports the idea that we should consider 6327 and 6327-1 on a simplified basis, please vote. [[11:16:55]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the First Deputy Minister of Health Suprun Ulyana. Please, Mrs. Ulyana. It's open here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, good afternoon! "I saw my daughter die in a hospital in the capital. No means of resuscitation. An immediate child’s resuscitation took too long. I don't have a daughter anymore." This is written by Natala from Kiev on Facebook with the sign "I demand med reform." Such stories are, unfortunately, thousands. We're used to talking about national MPs either bad or nothing. But as the acting minister of health, I know you a little bit from the other side. Every day, dozens of MPs are signing me up, many of you are calling directly to me or to my deputies with questions about helping Ukrainian citizens. Sometimes we manage to find solutions together. But we often find that there is no formal way to help. Let's be honest. In most cases we find it impossible to help. A thousand six hundred people die each day in Ukraine. The system that's supposed to save them doesn't work. Everyone understands what the prospects are. By adopting government bills, you, honourable national MPs, are voting for the independence of the Ukrainian medical system from the Soviet past. Similarly, 26 years ago, your colleagues adopted the Ukrainian Independence Act. Independence from the burden of the past system of medicine, the independence of doctors from the anxiety about money that melts the profession. The independence of patients from misdiagnosed financial catastrophes. Over the years of independence, 21 insurance bills have been drafted, more than 20 ministers have changed, and Ukrainians have been reduced by 10 million. We can continue to look for the perfect model, but we have the ruins now and people are dying.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u65	How much would you like to add, Mrs. Ulyana? How much do you add? Mrs. Ulyana, how much time would you like to add? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please add 2 minutes to the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u66	We've put in bills that the working group has been working on, and we've got representatives from 7 factions and 8 committees. Thank you to Sergio Berezenka, who led the group, the President for supporting the status of urgency of reform and the Prime Minister, and to the entire government team that gave its life to those reforms. Every year, 640,000 families are bankrupt because of medical expenses. Every year, there are 136 thousand Ukrainians who could have been saved. Our reform will be at this point. By law, we guarantee every Ukrainian three things. The first is the standard of treatment. We're moving on to international medical and diagnostics. This supports more than 50 percent of the population. The second is choice. The National Health Service, an operator that we create, will pay for the hospital’s treasury bills or a hospital that has been selected and provided with quality services. This is a principle: Money follows a patient. It is supported by more than 80 percent of the population. And the third is protection. We introduce a state-guaranteed package, clear legislative guarantees are the same for everyone regardless of the material state. This is supported by 90 percent of the population. Look at this sign on your books. Each Ukrainian needs to know that where this sign is, there will be help under the same rules. It's time to tell us the truth. There is no free medicine in Ukraine. A hundred percent of those currently watching this talk pay in hospitals. We give bribes for everything, even for childbirth when a new Ukrainian is born. It's going to be ruined. We're going to go to the legal system of relationships in medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u67	Mrs. Uljana, thank you. Attention, please. I'll take a message. Attention in the hall! I think it's too important for us to give him too little time. Therefore, with the headship, I will give, as provided for by the Rules, every faction of the time to speak and then those deputies who wish to speak and ask questions will have the opportunity to speak and ask questions. Then I'll give the final word so the minister can answer these questions. But I'll have, my friends, then one request to vote off the break of 12-12. 30, otherwise we just can't get through. Colleagues, we got a deal, right? So everyone gets the word. And now I'm going to give the co-report, but we're going to discuss it, and I'm going to give the MPs a word for the speeches. So the author of the alternative bill 6327-1 of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Musi Oleg Stepanovich is now invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u68	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, author of an alternative to the so-called medical reform of the Ulyana Suprun Bill. I want to tell you first about the so-called reform bill. You, Mrs. Suprun, misspelled the name. The name had to be written honestly and fairly: about depriving Ukrainians of any financial guarantees of getting medical care. That's what your bill is about. You want to build new corruption schemes by this bill, which is to centralize the funds to a state-owned purchasing agency, which you call a very beautiful name, a beautiful name called: National Health Service. And to him, unfortunately, the "grantoids" who sit on my left and shout "disgusting" because they are in the schemes for the destruction of the people of Ukraine. You're in these schemes and you're going to be responsible, if tomorrow, God forbid, Parliament will approve, even if even on the first reading, without further processing, an extremely serious document that provides for the centralization of all the money -- 80 billion. It's who invented this scheme, taking 80 billion people away and making it impossible for them to get medical attention. Today, Mrs. Suprun, what you said was a letter from a patient who had not received medical attention. Do you know what tomorrow will be? Tomorrow the entire population of Ukraine will write such letters to you because you take them away. You steal their health, their life, and their future through this bill. So the alternative bill that I'm introducing, but I'm asking the chairman to give me as much time as the first reporter to speak, to continue my speech for two minutes. I hope that you will treat everyone equally. I asked the Chief of the Supreme Council yesterday to give an opinion on the possibility of concluding an anti-corruption committee. You didn't provide, unfortunately, a conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u69	Please add two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u70	You didn't secure it. So I find that I was able to analyze it. Corruption cannot flourish and destroy the people of Ukraine, it cannot. I understand land schemes, I understand the price of gas, some other, and to measure the desire to build, to steal 80 billion from a beggarly health care system is the top of cynicism. That's why I didn't get 100 percent in the alternative bill, 80 percent in time to reduce all corruption risks, and that's what the alternative bill was all about. Instead, I propose to Parliament that this bill "the names of the government of Groysman-Suprun" be sent for substantial elaboration because it is impossible to change to the second reading what they are now trying to force you through your knees. That's where you have to make two control bodies instead of one agency. Who Will Control Quality? You're offering to buy services to this agency, sign contracts with this agency, and then control quality and pay not in advance how the whole world pays for medical care, but pay for post facto. The chief doctor who will be loyal to you, who will bring you bags of repo money, will receive funding. And what will all other people do? So this is especially true of the majors. You see, what is the result of the inadequacy of the decision of the government and the inadequacies of the unprofessionals and the teams of the Ministry of Health? Hospital districts, this is going to happen all over Ukraine. Half the hospital will be closed because of lack of funding, half the medical staff will be reduced due to lack of funding, and access to medical care will be reduced to zero. You want this to be for some reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u71	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Mrs. Ludmila, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, on April 10, 2017, a government bill was submitted to the Supreme Council on State financial guarantees for the provision of medical services and medical supplies, which were offered State guarantees in the health care system to ensure the implementation of state-owned health insurance. That's why this bill was appointed by the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, because there was the term "fear," which is the mandate of this committee. The bill did not find support in Parliament and was not included in the agenda. Then a working group was formed to finalize the bill, and the National Reform Board was held on June 3, this year, where the bill was supported. The revised text of the bill, instead of introducing state-owned health insurance, provides funding at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine in the scope of the law, the necessary medical services and medical supplies relating to the provision of emergency medical care, primary health care, secondary specialized medical care, third and highly specialized medical and palliative care. I'm asking you to give it to me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u73	Please, one minute. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u74	With regard to the State guarantees regarding the full payment of the state budget, they remained unchanged. The State guarantees the full payment of only the necessary medical services and medical supplies related to the provision of emergency medical care, primary medical care, and palliative care. At the same time, patients are obliged to pay at the expense of their own expenses and the cost of voluntary health insurance and other sources and sources. Payments in the case of partial payment for the costs of the State budget, other medical services and medical supplies given to such a patient. Following a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions on June 7, 2017, the Committee on Social Policy and Pensions decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a revised Government Bill 6023. 6327, provided that the warnings of the National Deputies, members of the Committees are taken into account. That is, to review the provisions of articles 7 and 12 of the project, which require patients to pay for their own costs for the cost of the cost of the cost of the cost of the public health care budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u75	Please, one minute. An important bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u76	Thank you. The deletion of article 2, article 8 and article 9 of the project, which defines the central authority of the executive branch, which implements state policy and acquires special status, is where we intervene in the authorization of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to simplify this procedure for the appointment of such an organ. Completion of the “Principal”, “Transitional Regulations”, of the project, inter alia, standards: paragraph 8 on the cessation of financing of public and municipal health institutions, in addition to the health facilities envisaged by the census after January 1, 2020. This needs to be worked out. Subparagraph 1 of paragraph 10, which amends part of article 18 of Ukraine’s health legislation, provides that the State will ensure the establishment and functioning of a system of compulsory social health insurance. Take into account the design standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u77	Dear Mrs. Ludmila, I think there will be another opportunity to perform, summarizing the performance, after the exchange of thoughts from the factions. We'll give you as a committee just to sum it up. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the speech, given the importance of the bill, we will not do "two, two, no" but all factions will be able to get two minutes, and then the head of the committee and the acting minister will do the same, summarizing a brief word. I'm asking you to sign up for factions now: two for, two for. Sorry about the little break. Please, Jaroslav Moskalenko, your word, Your Honor. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, it's a disgrace to those deputies who voted in favour of the shorter procedure. There is no more important reform for the Ukrainian people today, so I thank my head for taking advantage of his right and expanding the procedure. Now it's about the bill itself. Well, there's no more "sharp" bill before the first reading. This time. The other one. Why does the medical committee not report on medical reform from this important rostrum? Now, what about the insurance medicine we've been talking about for so long? Why can't we see what's going to happen today. Where are the newborns? What about psychiatry? As for the introduction of this bill, I have great doubts that it will be implemented as of 1 January 2018, and I will tell you why. Go to the remote villages and see what's going on. Material technology at zero. Where will they take medication to serve a person? And only after serving under this law will a medical facility be able to obtain funds. Two: material and technical security in these hospitals at zero. Today, there is no problem of getting a doctor, there is a problem with the doctor’s services because they do not have medication. And stop embarrassing the Ukrainian doctors. And I want to tell you if we are. We have no right to obstruct reform if we want Ukraine to continue to develop. And we have a proposition: let's take it from the first reading -- and we'll all take it together and start working, and we'll do a normal medical reform in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u79	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the leader of the Oleg Barresuk faction. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u80	Your Majesty, the presiding lady, the honourable ladies and gentlemen! There's no MP in the room right now who'd say we have great medicine. The previous speaker just said that there's zero material and technical security for the FAPs, hospitals far or near the cities. Why? Because of such successful medicine in Ukraine? No, because there is no medical organization. And the medical bureaucrat mafia and the pharmacology mafia today are stealing money from the public budget. It's not a medical bill, it's a bill about human money, which today is an attempt to pass on to people and doctors. And let them deal with each other, not on January 1st, the government officials and the pharmaceutical mafia. It's a very serious thing. At the age of 26. Everyone's here. Some ministers, deputies who have worked in parliament for 25 years, speak for medicine. This is the first time we've heard a bill that makes sense to reform. But this is just the beginning of a difficult road. The path of reforming medicine in the experience of the countries of the socialist camp of the former and capitalist countries shows that it is a long road of experience, torture and honesty in relations with people. And we have to start this road today and tell people honestly: the next day it's not going to be all right, but I can't be the way it is today, because today there's no material and technical security, no motivation, no doctor, no patient to treat. If you were to do an experiment right now and ask you to raise your hands, which one of you is being treated in Ukraine or your relatives, and who's being treated in Switzerland, I think this percentage would be almost parity. So we begin with people for the first time in 25 years of dialogue and the road to quality health care reform. Do you know why people run away from the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u81	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u82	Poverty causes them to flee the country because of the lack of medical care. And they're running away from Ukraine because of the prospect of retirement in the future. Let us walk straight to our own home!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u83	Thank you for your position, Mr. Oleg. Please, this is Victor Halasyuk from the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian people! Dear fellow national MPs! Medical reform is not a reduction in hospitals and doctors. Medical reform is not a withdrawal of financial guarantees for patients. Medical reform is not the centralization of the 80 billionth medical budget. Medical reform is not about the fear and uncertainty in which I want to leave the country, it's about confidence in tomorrow. Medical reform should focus on: improving the quality of the provision of medical services; increasing the availability of such services for Ukrainians; and expanding the coverage of Ukrainian health services. Do we see in that package of bills that was tabled to Parliament today? No, we don't. But we see a contradiction in article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that health care is free of charge in public and municipal health institutions. But we can see the exact matching of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund: the economy of medical expenditure, the reduction of the excess potential in the hospital segment. Dear colleagues, "money goes after a patient" sounds very good, but the devil is in the details. Look, please, everyone wants to see how much money goes to a patient from the budget and how much money they have to pay for themselves. What are the rates for medical services that the State will pay for part of the cost of medical treatment and medicine separately for specific types of disease? At which localities are at risk of closing down medical facilities, and it is. What will be the national policy on existing and new medical institutions, about Ukrainian and foreign medical institutions, about manufacturers. What will be the fate of the Ukrainian doctors, whether there is a threat of their reduction, and we see that there is such a threat. These bills, they don't make sense and they don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u85	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u86	These bills do not provide open and meaningful answers to these vital questions for every Ukrainian. In fact, it is a cat in a bag, what is being proposed to Parliament today. This medical reform, this is exactly what it will ensure, is the centralization of the health budget -- almost 80 billion dollars, the transfer of all powers to the level of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Health Service, which will determine who the funds will be allocated to. And this is actually going to create corruption mechanisms, but it's not going to improve the quality of medicine for Ukrainian citizens. The medreform in existing form, as it is suggested today, is an offer to jump with a parachute when an unverified backpack is removed from it by some strange flair. So my appeal as deputy leader of the Radical Party to the Ukrainian Parliament: Ukrainian Parliament, no harm!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u87	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. And then we couldn't register the faction, then Igor Shurma of the Opposition Block, Maxim Burbak of the People's Front, and BP Berezenko. Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u88	I think that no one in the country has any doubt that the health system is in such a tragic state that a person who no longer has copies to pay, even copies, cannot be treated. The lowest quality that could have been in all the years! And if a person goes to a hospital, a person goes to a clinic, it is obvious that there is no constitutional position on the cost of medicine. Domestic bribery, the inability of people to pay for their treatment, their children, and their parents are evident. Health Reform Is Needed! And you need a thorough one. But at the same time, what are they offering us now? I'll try to explain very briefly. But before that, I want to ask you a question. Please tell me why health reform is not being considered by the Health Committee? And why is there no Olya the Mantis, who knows every aspect of the health system and knows exactly how to reform? The answer is very simple. Because the Supreme Council’s Health Committee is firmly opposed to the horror we are now being offered! And that's why Ollie didn't even say a word. Give her your word, please. And there are three things in this reform. First. Going to 100 percent pay medicine for people and they're going to pay tens of times more than they're paying doctors or any other staff today. Secondly, this reform, giving people absolutely paid medical services, does not start a health insurance, does not start a health insurance. This means that in all the countries of the world we take.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u89	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u90	We're taking one piece of paid medicine, but we're completely crossing out insurance medicine that allows people to pay. And the third. They're taking all the money into the regions and they're creating an 80 billion dollar corruptible, where they're drinking money again, and they're not getting anything for medicine. I know that grants have been paid for this reform. Don't vote! It's against the Ukrainian people! But reform needs to be done -- another on the basis of the Health Committee, not those puppets who are willing to raise their hand for anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u92	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I want to present the opposition bloc's position on reform. It is necessary, clearly, we support the implementation of health reform. Will the Opposition Block vote today? Few things he won't, he'll vote red against. And I'm explaining why. Who in this room can answer what health - care model we are building today? The concept of national health care should talk about this. We are today a concept approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, which we agree with the President, with the Supreme Council, we do not have. To date, we have just tried to change the financing of health care facilities. The Opposition Block will support any bill on one condition, because we want to live by the standards when legislation meets the body of the Constitution. We are talking about the imperfections of article 49. Yes, it is. Is there anyone to blame in this room? No, it's the Constitution and people have constitutional rights. Who is the guarantor of the Constitution? President of Ukraine. He is obliged to ensure that it is implemented. And if he can't do that, he initiates changes and additions to the Constitution. Moreover, by enacting this law, you will not only violate the Constitution of Ukraine, you will be a mockery in a civilized world, you will not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has already assessed this entire situation. What we're talking about today is that this bill is going to change significantly, and we're talking about the social protection of health workers? There's going to be a reduction in the network, so read End Positions. Since January 1, 2020, public and public institutions will not be financed. What does that mean? This is going to be a shortcut. What are the social guarantees for health - care workers? What are the legal guarantees for the patient? Today, the patient is protected from the fact that he may not survive in the absence of medication.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u93	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u94	Who will protect the rights of patients? No one's ever written about it. We're saying today that we're introducing an English model. So tell you the truth, the English model is 9 percent of the gross domestic product, that's 130 billion pounds of sterling. And today the English talk about the imperfections of this system, you're talking about the Polish system. And now the Poles are giving up the National Fund, and they are 31 places in the health rating. And in the end, I want to talk about consistency or not wickedness. I'm talking to colleagues who are sitting on Communist chairs, and you said yesterday, "Please don't give us bills in violation of the Rules of Law, 96 articles." Two days after the meeting of the Main Committee, we will consider it. Just yesterday there was a meeting, today there are no two days, be principled, and do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u95	Thank you. Everyone was one minute. We heard the position. Ladies and gentlemen. Ten seconds, please bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u96	And finally, I want to say. The Health Committee discussed this issue yesterday. One man is in favour of voting and supporting these bills from ten members of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u97	Thank you for your position. Please, Maxim Burbak. He's giving the word "Victoria Sumar." Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u98	You know, for 20 years, the country is waiting for us to start reforming the health system. Is there anything more important to us than the life and health of Ukrainians? But yet, when the time has finally come, you and I are voting in the room for a reduced procedure. 160 deputies don't want to know what's really going on, and they don't want to tell the country that's watching today what this reform is about. Colleagues, it's at least irresponsible in terms of how we press the buttons and what we tell people, they want to know what's there. That's the first one. You asked who was being treated in Ukraine. I am personally treated in Ukraine, and I have never been abroad in a hospital. You know, I've been doing this in paid hospitals lately. Why? Well, simpler and easier, you pay for your service and you know what you're gonna get. Modern clinics, where people don't have the ability to pay even 300 dollars for counseling, it's just total horror. Should this system be changed? You definitely have to. Because when we're talking about free medicine, go find a green woman for free in our current hospital. Greens and bandages, they won't give it to you for free. God forbid, you'll have a baby sooner. Do you have any idea of the free births that are guaranteed by the Constitution? There's no such thing. How can this be changed? There was much discussion. Ulyana Suprun's only team made a decision today. We're looking at it very, very quickly and quickly. This means that these decisions will have to be worked out very seriously; they will have to be explained to people. You'll have to understand what happens to rural medicine, because it's a very unclear question. If the community has set itself up and is willing to spend money on it, that's a good thing. And if there is no union of communities to make the grandmother who is used to the rural feldcher who goes there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u99	One minute, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u100	She's used to this poltergeist giving her this shot, and she doesn't have that shot, she can just die because no one will see that she's got the pressure and she has no way of beating it. You know, medical reform isn't just about money, like we're talking about. This, of course, is primarily about medicine itself. And most importantly, it's about the lives of Ukrainians, it's about how we can become a healthier nation today. I think that if Parliament is able to do this today, this first step, we have to work very seriously, so that in the second step, when we vote in general for these bills, we have had answers about how this will change for better quality medical services and how this will enable a person to be protected, as it will eventually save the lives and health of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Sergey Berezenko of Peter Dustenka's Block, please. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, first of all, we would like to say that the Peter Prashenko Block will support adoption on the basis of Bill 6327. Because it's a law, a bill that will lay the foundation of medical reform. Let us be objective, free medicine does not exist today, and all of us have seen it since the first day or the moment we go to the hospital and buy the money from the bajila, there is no free medical service. And 3.5 bracelets for one patient, 3.5 bracelets for treatment is nothing, so we can't fool ourselves. I support that we cannot violate the Constitution of Ukraine 49 articles on free medicine. And so the question of co-payment, which is part of the bill, will be removed from our faction's initiative. But we can do this in preparation for the second reading. We will certainly provide a decent salary for doctors, both in the family and in the third and the family. But one thing we have to say is that if we don't start today, if we don't take the first step towards reforming the medical sector, we don't have any chance of changing this system. We will not feel protected, we will not be able to continue to treat our children under such conditions, regardless of who goes to the hospital. Most importantly, we have to start the competition and motivation market. We have to give the doctor the right to earn a decent salary, not to get a government fee, but to make real money. These principles were laid down in this bill, and it was worked by a working group of the Supreme Council, and it passed through the National Reforms. She is certainly not ready for acceptance as a whole. I'm addressing you, colleagues, let's support it in the first reading and work for the second one, do everything we can to make this law quality and showcase. Medical reform has long been on the clock for 25 years. I'm like a father, I'm like a son of doctors, and I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u103	One minute, please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u104	I hope that our children will want to go to medical schools to work as a doctor and get a decent salary, not just for a twig. Dear colleagues, let's put it to a vote. Let's show our solidarity together and say that there will be medical reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u105	Thank you. From Rebirth Group, Andrew Shipko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear people of Ukraine! The question of whether or not to reform medically stands. 25 years just one conversation, and we have to take the first step. But what is reform? What we are now offered in the Hall of Laws on State Financial Guarantees is not reform. Reform is a concept that is approved, which is supported by this Hall, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Reform is a road map where change will take place, and we will be no matter what leadership in the state today, knowing that the people of Ukraine are getting in three years, five years from now. This is called reform. What, then, are government, financial guarantees offering us? Focus, financial guarantees, I'm just going to tell people what these guarantees are. The State guarantees extra medical care. I mean, an ambulance came to the man and stabilized his condition, so what? And then the payoff. Let's do the pay-as-you-go. Second, what does the State guarantee? The State guarantees the provision of primary health care. You came to the family doctor, he looked at you and said you should consult a surgeon, an eye specialist, a lore. What's that? That's the payoff. And the third thing we're guaranteed by the state is plentiful aid. I mean, man can't, he just needs to support life's functions, that's what the state guarantees us. It's not financial guarantees. Financial guarantees are when the Ukrainian people are protected. First, our group demands, and I personally joined the working group, offered my proposals to both the Reform Council and the Ministry of Health, and to a group that worked in the Supreme Council. The Rebirth Group requires a transcript of the State Guarantees saying, "At 5 the article should be submitted."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u107	Please add 30 seconds. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u108	"The State guarantees the payment of secondary and third-year medical care to children under 14 years of age, child and childbirth assistance." This was heard in the working group, the group supported, the president supported -- which is not in the bill, I ask. What, we are erasing the future of Ukraine, we are not worried about children, we are not worried about pregnancy? What do we get next? Besides that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u109	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u110	Besides, please tell me, dear colleagues, that a person, a pensioner who has 1,600 dollars of pension when the state guarantees her this package and the rest, what will she get? She doesn't have money to pay. That's why we, the Rebirth Group, propose to introduce the term "medical subsidy," by analogy, as a grant for gas that protects the defenseless layers of our population. Bring it in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Andrew. Colleagues, pay attention! Now I'm going to put a motion on the vote so we can work without interruptions of 12 to 12.30. If this proposal is not supported, I will have to go before the end, that is, give the word of Olga Bogolitz, Ulya Suprun, and go to the vote. If we vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dam-dam! And the head of the Dennis Committee. If we vote without a break, we can discuss and MP, too, colleagues. We are limited in time – very simple! So I ask everyone to concentrate and vote so that we can work without interruption. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, please, will depend on the logic of our consideration. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please. Now I'm going to put a motion on the vote so we can work without interruptions between 12:00 and 12:30. And we're going to be able to make a broader discussion of this bill. I ask all those who consider it appropriate to discuss the legislative initiative, the health reform, the broader vote in favour of cancelling the break. Will you support me, colleagues? We're supporting, aren't we? So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And I'm putting the vote to an end today, just today, I'm going to take a break from 12:00 to 12:30 to discuss health reform in more detail. Please vote. Please support work without interruptions from 12:00 to 12:30. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:59:58]] For 243 Decision taken. It's just a victory, colleagues. If only we had adopted a reform of Parliament today. So, colleagues, they've just finished speaking to the factions' heads. With your permission, I will now give five national deputies a minute, five per minute. It's a deal, isn't it? So, Solovay, Krivenko, Herasimov. No, not like that, we'll sign up, colleagues. Let's sign up. So now I'm asking you to record a statement from. Then I'll give the Mantis himself, I'll finish the Mantis, I'll give Dennis and I'll give him the minister. It's not a question. I now request that you record five members of the national parliament. Please hold the record, please log in. Please record from the National MPs. Vadaturski, Peter Dustenka's Block. He passes the word to Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! Any of us who live in this country, whose families and children live in this country, are they being treated in this country, or do we think that we are doing well in the health system? No, that's not true. That's why we need to take this first step. In addition, I would like to inform you once again that after we received their version of these laws from the Cabinet of Ministers, a working group was formed in which all factions participated. All factions, including Fatherland. In addition, this working group was involved. Doctors participated, representatives of various organizations participated, and experts participated. So, honourable colleagues, I remind you, this is the first reading, so please ask everyone to gather and support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u113	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, it's a very important reform, but unfortunately, the attitude in this room is a mediocre one. We're looking here in two minutes at how will 40 million people continue to live and go to the hospital? What kind of reform is this, if we don't even have an expert environment, we don't have any slides, and we heard in two minutes what's going to happen to our medicine. I didn't hear any important information at all. Please tell the average age of the Ukrainian who lives today is 68 years. If there are 80 people living in Europe. Please tell us what he will do to make us truly give more life to our people. So that children do not die of lack of medicine. So that people can afford a cure. We didn't get an answer today. And we can't reform if we're sitting here like blind kittens, and they give us papers and they say, "Yeah, that's very good, vote. It's not medical reform. Now they're just changing the same names.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u115	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u116	These laws simply change the names of institutions that now have multibillion - dollar equipment. It doesn't matter, it's about corruption or something else, what's called an institution, if there's no normal management. We need to look for experts and talk to experts who are now opposed to this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u117	Thank you. Colleagues, I just want to let you know that there's no offense, I'm still not giving you 30 seconds of extra. So enter in a minute so that other deputies do not take up time. Mr. Igor, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u118	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we are talking about the need to reduce such changes. I have a question, What kind of health reform do we talk about when a state spends billions of money on state education in medical universities? What do these future doctors teach us? To this day we should talk about what, if we want to be respected in the world, should we understand that the economy allows us to carry out reforms today? Think about it: 210 dollars a year for one patient. And this patient can sign up for therapy. And who in the online regime will sign up in the country? Do you know which country house your grandmother or grandparents are going to be on-line? What are we talking about today? There must be a power of will in the ministry to say, "Our initiatives, we propose to conduct."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u119	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u120	If that's what it's like, let's let them take the initiative in a particular region to do this experiment. I'm just wondering who's going to self-destruct the population in this experiment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u121	From Self-Help, Markevich Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u122	Please pass on the word to Andrey Zhurziya.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u123	Colleagues, let's face it, and let's say to people, medicine is ruined today. We've been telling people for 25 years that we're going to make things better. The former ministers, speaking from this rostrum, say that they worked out better concepts. I have a question about what you did when you were a minister, head of the committee, other colleagues? Nothing! You stole billions. As a member of the working group that worked on this bill in Parliament, as an ignorant medical practitioner, I want to say that this law is not about the injections, not about medicine, but about the money that the state has put into the medical field that is being stolen today! The only purpose of this bill is to ensure that money comes from the state budget to the doctor, to the patient, to a particular hospital! Don't let the doctor be a thief in this country! And if he had a turn, he would have been able to earn an honest living in that country and provide a service. That's why we're not discussing it. We're voting on the bill. Finally, we are taking steps to ensure that this nation has quality medicine and that people are protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u124	Thank you. So, colleagues, two more speeches. This is Ritchkova and Abdullin. And then the head of Denisov's committee, the head of the Bohemite Committee and the minister. That's the logic. I know, I know, yeah. So now Ritchkova is passing the word to Krivenkov. Please, Krivenka, Krivenka. Your time is coming, time is coming, please be careful! Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u125	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. We had a big discussion on our side. And we have decided to support in the first reading this bill under commitments that are about to be cleared of the positions that conflict with our Constitution before the second reading. Where it refers to cleaning up free medical treatment. Everyone has talked about health problems today. I won't repeat myself. I call on the first reading to support and prepare qualitatively for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u126	Thank you. And the last speech by the national MPs. Abdullin's handing out Dubyl. Please, from the rostrum, right? Please, Double from the rostrum. And then the committee heads, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction does not object or criticize, but proposes medical reform. Because today, most Ukrainians are waiting for the major medical reform that every Ukrainian needs, which will radically change the health system. But people ask me, when police reform was done in the country, people were given cars, equipment, wages, why didn't medical reform take place like that? Today we're seeing with you, creating a COVA -- a monster that's going to be focused on over 70 billion dollars. And this COVV will handle itself and control itself. And all the district hospitals and family doctors will be standing with their hands stretched out to this TCOW. Why is no one today talking about emergency medicine? When dispatches were launched and only 6 or 7 were created, and more than 20 were to be created. And in the Chernigow region, there's not enough for nine million years when there's equipment, there's a building. I'll tell you what today is about payoff. "Medical service providers have the right to require patients.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u128	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u129	I'll read to you today what the law says about payoff. "Medical service providers have the right to require patients to pay or ensure payment of the co-payment rate for medical services and medical services provided to such patients." I'm going to read it again. "Require." And if a person does not have the funds, they must die. Today, people lack oncology, tuberculosis, and rural deaths due to lack of medicine. That's why we're proposing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u130	Thank you. So now we're moving on to the committee heads. Guys, I said I wouldn't even give for 30 seconds, I gave you 30 seconds, so just hold back, colleagues. So now. Who first? Ola the Mantis, please two minutes and then Ludmila, that's right. Please, Mrs. Ola, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that with the violation of the Rules, laws called health - care reform did not come to the Health Committee. They would have gone to the Committee on Budgets if they were guarantees to state finance. But since there are no numbers in these laws, what does the State guarantee? I want to give you an answer as to why these laws did not come to the Health Committee and I stress that if we are to preserve parliamentaryism, these laws must come to the Health Committee to bring together these two bills and create one human. Why didn't these bills come through? Because the Ministry of Health and Kabin have not been able to answer the question in the last year: What will be the basic guaranteed medical care package, how much this aid costs, how much will be paid to the people on hand. In fact, now we're throwing people under the tanks and giving them extra tariffs, raising our gas, raising our electricity, raising our utility bills, and now pay just to get to the hospital. Do you have to ask yourself questions and ask yourself if it can get worse after these laws? The Health Committee supports reform. And I invite everyone who wants to go to a round table tomorrow after presenting a package of documents prepared by the Health Committee for the adaptation of our system and the transition to health insurance. But the Health Committee decided at its meeting that both laws and laws of Moses and the laws of the Ministry of Health should be further developed. Who's gonna get worse? They'll be deprived of their right to just go to a mental hospital, and people won't be able to get help on the gap, because the pathological anatomic service doesn't apply to anything that the state guarantees. Births, children, orphans, children with developmental disabilities, which are becoming more and more precisely because of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u132	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u133	So children with developmental disabilities will not be able to get into a planned operation, orphans, disabled children, pensioners, all of them will be obliged to pay. The question is, how many? Let's see what you want, what do you want to vote for, which cat in the bag to buy, what do you suggest to Ukrainian citizens? Can Reform Make It Worse? Yes, if it is not prepared, people will suffer. As head of the Health Committee, I am ready to make a commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u134	Mrs. Olu, thank you very much. And now the closing word. Ten seconds, please, Olya, finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u135	The chairman of the Health Committee commits himself during the month to working out both laws and making them a law with which you will not be ashamed to come to the districts and look your people in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u136	Thank you. It's a turn. First, the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, after hearing all of you speak for the support of this bill, I would like to stress once again. Our committee was considering this because the first bill introduced by the government was about state health insurance. Now it's been redesigned, and it's already been State funding some levels of health care. Our committee agrees if we adopt this bill as a basis only for these warnings, and I ask you to put it to the vote. That's the next warning. This is a review of the provisions of articles 7 and 12, where the question of payment is concerned. This is a review of part two of article 8 and article 9, where we simply interfere with the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the finalization of the Final Provisions, a review of paragraph 8, where the financing of municipal institutions has been halted since 1 January 2020, that is to say, what will be the outcome between these years. And to ensure financing of a system of compulsory social and health insurance. And I would also like to point out that in this bill there was equal treatment for equal people with disabilities in war, participants in combat, so that we could remove some of the premium categories so that we wouldn't create different conditions for the same people. I ask the chairman to put to the vote the proposal of a committee with regard to the warnings I have made. And if you please, you'll accept the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u138	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u139	I very much ask you to refer to the second reading of the draft of this bill to the committee of profile for Ms. Olga the Mantis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u140	Thank you. And now the reporters, the authors of the laws. First Musai, one minute. Mrs. Ulyana, I'll give you two minutes to answer your questions at the same time. Please, Oleg Musei, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, you have just witnessed the performance of the two committees. The two committees of the Supreme Council are asking you to elaborate, allow you to write an adequate bill. How can we support something in the first reading when they need substantial refinement rather than mere refinement? As the author of the alternative, I realize that I am in the eyes of one faction, in the eyes of the second faction, maybe a person. I'm willing to give up my authorship, take away my alternate bill, become its authors, no problem. For me, the life and health of the Ukrainians were far more precious than my authorship, and I was just saving the situation from the vacchanal they were trying to drive us into. So I'm asking you to listen to your mind and send you to work, to the expert expertise of the expert committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u142	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to inform you that there will be a closing statement in two minutes and a vote will take place. So I ask both the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies into the Hall and prepare for the vote. I now invite you to address Mrs. Ulyana Suprun. And, Mrs. Ulyano, it's very important that you say in your speech what your attitude is to those lines that have been echoed by the head of the committee of Ludmila Denisov and those that have been sounded by Andrew Shipko. When I vote, should I include or should I not include these amendments? If I may, in my speech, do these moments mean that I know how to put it to a vote? Mrs. Uljano, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u143	Thank you. I want to thank the national deputies for this discussion because we see that health care is a priority of the country. Today, I want to thank you for discussing this at last. A lot of good points to guarantee for children under the age of 14 to guarantee childbirth in a guaranteed package, very rightly, we accept these comments. And most of the comments that Mrs. Denisov made, we also support them. But we insist that we leave the discussion with the Social Policy Committee. We've been working with Mrs. Dennis since April, and I think there's already an understanding of how we work together, because these are financial guarantees for the provision of services, and I think this should stay on this committee. Once again, I want to thank you for your comments and we are about to proceed to a very important vote. We will now finally be able to start a change in the health system. We can always remember that moment when we changed after 26 years of independence this system that no longer works. What Sergey Berezenko said, what we said here from the rostrum, it's time to start our changes. Let's not wait. Let's do it now, let's do it today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Uljana. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their seats. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. Colleagues, we. We will have to carry out reforms in virtually all spheres of social life. But perhaps the most difficult was the direction of health and medical reform. Today we have a chance to start this reform historically, colleagues. A working group of all the factions was working, and all the deputies were working on a document that was planned only in the first reading, but that would be an important vote, an important step towards the beginning of health reform. Without a doubt, it is to be expected by society, no doubt, by all scientific and expert backgrounds. And so I ask everyone to take a responsible approach to this vote, and we come to a decision. I'm going to put on the first reading of the amendments that Andrew Shipko has made and the amendments that Ludmila Denisov made to make all things reconciled, and we even adopted those amendments on the first reading. Is there such agreement, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then let's go into the hall, take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Devices (No. 6327), as amended, which was written by the head of the committee of Ludmila Denisov and the National Deputy Shipko on the basis of a colleague. On the ground! We will support medical reform, we will support health reform! Let's vote yes! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[12:21:48]] For 224 Two votes. I'll be back. Fellows, pay attention! Two votes! Careful! Please take up jobs. Please take up jobs! Colleagues, pay attention! Take up jobs! Invite the deputies to the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Services (6,327), my colleague. I'm asking you very carefully. Everyone, please take your seats and vote for your return. Please be supportive. Please vote for the return of 6327. Let's vote, colleagues. Please back up! Vote! [[12:22:56]] For 218. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Attention, colleagues! I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll make an alternative. I'm going to make an alternative, I'm going to set up colleagues, just like every bill, regardless of whose authority it is. I'll put it back. If it doesn't work, we'll go to the alternative. This is a general principle that I apply to all laws. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to show me the factions. The factions, please. All right. Colleagues, there have been reports of non-personal voting. I ask you to vote in person only. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to use only a personal vote. I also want to point out that all the amendments that Andrew Shipk has proposed, they count in, they count in, and so I ask for your support, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. We've come up with a compromise, and I'm asking everyone to support the proposal to go back to voting for Bill 6327. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote please, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:25:03]] For 221 Colleagues, I'm going to put an alternative vote on this, and then I'm going to propose to the committee to work on this. Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, I'm underlining again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! I call again for a personal vote. Now I'm going to put in an alternative bill, and then I'm going to propose to the committee for further work. Now I'm putting an alternative bill of 6327-1 to the vote. Who supports Project 6327-1, please vote. Vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:26:17]] For-32 No decision taken, no point in going back. And now, colleagues, I'm offering to return to the committee for further work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Colleagues, stop, attention. Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! I'm suggesting that we exchange our thoughts on how to act. One minute from the factions. That's right, isn't it? Please, just a minute from the factions before we go to the final vote. Every faction takes a minute. You can put your hands down and not worry. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Berezenko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! I think if we don't put this bill in the agenda right now, we're running out of time to start working essentially. Anyone who doesn't vote for it right now is going to kill the beginning of medical reform and take political responsibility for it. But we have a chance to fix this right now. It's about first reading. Along with the comments of his colleague Shiph, and Dennis ’ colleague, who pointed out the important changes that should be taken into account before the first reading. That's exactly what we're going to be voting with these amendments right now. That's why we're asking from Peter Dustock's Block, go back to the turn-on. before the vote in the first reading. It's incredibly important, the whole country is looking at us. Please, this is important to us and important to the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u146	Thank you. Maxim Burbak, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! Maxim Burbak, 204 constituency. I can tell you that now the whole country is looking at us, and it requires us to start the first step to do in updating medicine. Because the worse situation, as it is now, will be no more. So I'm sure we should put it to the vote again now. If not, let's go back to work. And I'm asking the profile minister and the entire team to work hard to finally have a consensus in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u148	Thank you. He's the Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u149	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm talking to the coalition. You're the European Ukraine, you're the one who knocks on a gallery? I address the citizens of Ukraine, those who promised to fight the buttons. I'm talking to the chairman, and there's a button. I'm talking to Suprun. Do you need a bill like that? This is going to be a disgrace! You say reform once every fifty years. You make everyone vote on their knees. And worse than that, you're depriving citizens of the constitutional right to free medical care, which is what you're trying to implement today. So I'll tell you again, look, go over there and see how they fake the vote. These are the European standards you're implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u150	Thank you. From. I'll give it to everyone, colleagues, don't worry. Please, the size of the faction, so I don't confuse the sequence. Although it's not important after all, is it? Come on, Oleg Lazko, then Sergey Sobolev, then Oleg Berezuk, then Sergey Melniczuk. Okay? It's okay. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u151	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, everyone who is currently voting for this document is depriving millions of Ukrainian pensioners, children, pregnant women, all categories of Ukrainians of access to medical care. You have money to treat abroad, and most Ukrainians don't have money. Before you offer paid medicine to Ukrainians, give them a job and a salary to pay for this paid medicine. Therefore, the Radical Party faction does not support a bill that makes it possible for Ukrainians to be treated. In the 15th year, 400,000 people died -- first place in the world -- because there was nothing to pay for the pill, for the medicine. You want millions to die as a result of your reforms. Let your hand dry when you vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u152	Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u153	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, let's calm down. I think there's two concepts fighting in this room right now. One needs to imitate reforms when it comes to paying for services that will not be paid, and everyone understands that. When it is now created instead of domestic corruption that thrives in hospitals today, and when it is carried to doctors, nurses of bribes, public corruption will flourish. I don't think that's the way you're trying to choose right now. That is why our faction, like the committee of profile, is proposing to consider an immediate bill on the introduction of compulsory state health insurance. This is the only solution that all European countries and countries have taken to developing their own medicine. So our proposal is for reprocessing. And back here, in the hall, insurance state medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u154	From Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk, please. And, colleagues, in two minutes we'll be voting. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u155	The oligarchic institutional state has deprived the Ukrainian of medical care for the past 15 years. There is no medical service worthy. Moreover, the Ukrainian himself pays for this imperfect service. And that's human truth. She not only ruined this service and took it from a person. Today, this oligarchic state, by those who do not vote in favour of this law, takes away even the hope of a medical service at a public expense or at its own expense. It's not reform. This is the first step toward establishing the same state insurance system. Without this law and the introduction of these rules, it is not possible for government insurance in Ukraine. Either you're ignorant or you're a servant of a despotic oligaric state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u156	Sergey Melniczuk, right, from the rostrum? From the rostrum, please. Colleagues, then I'll give Victor Pinzenik a vote. Oh, and Irina Heratschenko. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u157	Good afternoon, Ukrainian people. Our primary acquisition is the health of the Ukrainian nation. We have to keep an eye on him. I'm not going to hide in populist slogans like political forces do, I want a little bit of dry statistics. It's a state agency, which. Out of 94 percent of the medicines listed, only 17 percent dropped on the last day. Where does it cost?? And these bills, which are now trying to stretch, all the protected articles are being annulled, and they're going to be passed on to the same agency that they're also going to steal. There's obviously some kind of garbage in there that supports this. A committee to consider on the Health Committee should be made available with a profile. And that's where you take the total.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u158	Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I've had a conversation with my colleagues in the classroom and I have a feeling that not everyone fully understands the philosophy of the decision we want to make. It's absolutely not about refusing to finance medicine, it's about completely different -- it's about changing the philosophy of financing medicine. I took the bottle. You go to the store, you're not asked to pay first for the box, then for the bottle, and then you come, we'll pour you some water. You buy the finished product. The logic of this law is this: we stop funding the process, the box, the bottle, the water and so on, we move on, we try to pay for the final product. That's what creates incentives for self-development. The system dies, it doesn't have any incentive if the doctor doesn't work, if he doesn't, we're giving you a chance to take the first step to choose the hospitals for treatment. I don't want to say that everything in this bill is okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u160	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u161	And I wouldn't want to rush into second reading. But the fact that the philosophy of this law is correct, colleagues, we have to support in the first reading, not rush with the second reading and, in fact, it's not a medical project, we're talking about treatment protocols, we're talking about standards, we're talking about funding. And this problem has to be addressed by either a budget, or a similar financial committee. I ask my colleagues to support the draft law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u162	Thank you. Colleagues, and in the discussion, Irina Heratchenko's closing statement, and we move on to the vote. Please invite everyone to the hall, please take your seats. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, there are not so many axacalics and corphies in our session room to listen to, and this is Victor Pinzenic. Let's hear it, please. And I'd like to think that those who say they're fighting two concepts right now are really right. First. Leave everything as it is when we have a depressed doctor with his small salary, and every Ukrainian who has no right to serve. And the second. Start changes. And it's terrible when there's two concepts fighting in the room, but even worse when there's a struggle between personalities. I want to go to the doctors of Maidan myself. There can be no such thing as putting your personal life above the state’s. It can't be. We promised on Maidan the right to change, and there can't be such a thing that you're only voting against it now, because your last name doesn't stand first. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start medical reform now, and we're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u164	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u165	We will work together on this bill for the second reading, taking into account all the positive positions and the profile committee, and the minister, the first minister of Maidan. But, you know, leaving everything as it is is is a betrayal of Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u166	Colleagues, so I'm going to ask you once again to go back to 6327. We lacked two votes, and at the suggestion of the factions' heads, which occurred during the discussion, I will put it to the vote again. And, colleagues, I want to tell you, the worst part is not making decisions. When we talk about reforms, the worst thing is to anchor the old system and not change anything. I am deeply convinced that our Ukrainian Parliament, which has implemented reforms in many spheres of social life, has a decision to make on this issue. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting for the motion to return to the vote, where the proposals will be both Ship and Dennis's, that is, the Rebirth Group, in order to return to this vote 6327: the draft Law on the Provision of Medical Services and Medical Resources. Colleagues, let's support this, this is just the basis. Please vote for the return, please support everyone, colleagues, vote, please support, vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. [[12:39:21]] For 230 Decision taken. And I'm putting in draft Law 6327 as amended. Attention! Attention! I'll bet! I'm asking you to remove the Vick card, please remove the Vick card. And I'm voting on the draft Law on State Financial Guarantees (6327), as amended by Dennisov, as amended by Andrew Shipko, based on colleagues, just as a basis. Please vote, please support, colleagues, vote. Please support, we vote, colleagues. Eugene, we're voting! Please be supportive. [[12:40:22]] For 227 Decision taken. The law is passed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I've been tasked with removing Vitek's card, as promised. We turn to the next question of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (2329 and 2329-1). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please support, support the reduced procedure. [[12:41:23]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Health Minister Suprun Ulyana Nadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u167	Good afternoon! Now we go to the second bill, this is 6329, these are changes to the Budget Code. We need these changes so that we can get paid for services instead of paying for the city bed, so that we can give our citizens the opportunity to get quality medical services, and we can pay for those services at the state treasury level through the National Health Service. Just as we talked to the first bill, it will allow us our citizens, our patients, to receive quality medical services through the financial guarantees of the state. We change the Budget Code just to ensure payment of those medical services. I would like to thank the national deputies for their first vote. This bill is necessary to complete the work on the first bill. We're going to start processing 6327 between first and second reading, we're going to work with the committees, and we're going to work with the Supreme Council so that we can get medical reform started. Because as the other deputies said, it's just a start, it's the beginning of those changes, and always the first step on the new road, on the new path is the hardest. I want to thank you for taking this first step today. There's first reading, we're working on it, and with those remarks, we're moving forward. You know, I want to tell you right now that I am proud that you, the Ukrainian Parliament, have decided to consider this problem in order to consider medical reform and take this first step. This is why we have a parliamentary state so that you can give us that advice, and we as executive authorities will implement the law when it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u168	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Musei Oleg Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! I wanted to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the Deputy First Council, who had just mentioned Midan. You betrayed Majdan today, voting for the destruction of the people of Ukraine. And I've always stood up for this position in principle. You've sat in the power seats to have a preference for a piece of money. That's what Majdan brought you to. It's a shame. You have no moral right to me as a man who saved thousands of lives in Maidan, you have no right to charge me with medical reform. Because you're traitors. And now we've been betrayed by manipulation, by clicking. You're stretching the destruction of 20 million people in Ukraine. Now, on the very essence of the bill. Dear National Deputies! The changes to the Budget Code proposed by the government provide for the opposite of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is practicing decentralization. He even had the notion of "medical subsidies in place." What do the changes to the Codex Budgets suggest? Full centralization. Dear People’s Deputies of Majority! You have your district, your hospitals take the money they gave you two years ago. And now you won't be able to manage it, and because of these pseudodecentralizations, if you vote in favour of this law, your hospitals will be deprived of funding. It's going to be sitting in the center of an official one under the Kabmin, and it's going to be up to me, so I'm not going to give it up. Therefore, the alternative bill foresees leaving medical subsidies, leaving decentralization, which would be absolutely right, allowing local communities to be involved in health financing. I urge you not to vote in favour of the government bill, but to support it, of course, as an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, now please give the floor to the head of the budget subcommittee, Constantine Ischeikin. Please. He's giving the word. People's MP to Melnik. I'm so sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u171	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Issues at its session considered bills amending the Budget Code, the Government Code, 6329, and the alternative 6329-1, which provide for a new system of financial security for institutions, measures and programmes in the field of health care and change the responsibility for the implementation of such expenditure between the State and local budgets. Both bills change, as has already been stressed in the consideration of the basic bill, the order of financing of medical services. What is the essence of the government bill and, as a result, changes to the budget code? A state-guaranteed package is introduced. Since January 1, 2020, we have been completely transitioning from a medical subsidy to cover-up financing, with the State fully guaranteeing the payment of emergency aid, primary aid and palliative aid. What is the point of the alternative bill? The alternative bill proposes to fully transfer the financing of the primary, secondary, third and palliative to the state budget, i.e. return to the past. What were the main questions during the committee’s consideration? The first is the projected amount of expenditure on law enforcement. This is what was said to be the coverage rate – it should not be derived from the definition and financing of health services, but on the basis of the coverage rate as a standard of health care, the amount of resources to be allocated to the health sector should be determined because the success of the reform depends on the resource to be channelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u172	Just give me one minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u173	The next question is the methodology for defining both the coverage tariff and the co-financing tariff. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in this transitional period, by 2020, we need to anticipate the possibility of co-financing tariffs, co-financing for local social protection programmes, including pensioners. Because we know that the most valuable aid is children under 5 and older people, mostly pensioners. The next is the creation of a special authority and its functions, i.e. the merger here both of treasury and the functions of the Ministry of Health. As a result, members of the committee agreed that the government bill needed further work on the second reading, depending on the decisions taken by the Supreme Council on the basic bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u174	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. The fish is referred to as Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u175	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want this speech to be recorded for history, for Ukrainian citizens. With good intentions, the way to hell has been cut off. Today in Parliament, we are told how medical reform is needed. But in an anti-constitutional way, they vote in favour of this document. If this document is so necessary, I have a question to the Head of Parliament and to the deputies: why are you breaking the law? Why are you banging on the Constitution by voting for this document? 227 national deputies, or more specifically, voted in favour of this fateful law for Ukrainian citizens. Voting was a card from the national deputy of Hirschfeld, who was not in the hall. A vote was taken by the MP Mikitas, who was not in the hall. And there was a vote in the ballot of the national deputy Vitka, who wasn't in the hall, and he was immediately brought in. But technically, it's very easy to say that when Vitka was voting, she was in the recovery sector, and she was voting there, not where Vitko is sitting. As a result, 227 minus three cards of missing national MPs are 224. We called it the names of the MPs that didn't exist, the cards that were voted on. We have called on the Head of Parliament to put the vote to a vote, as provided for by the Rules. Dear Andrew Parubius refused to do so. I'm asking you, first of all, to re-vote this law, because people really didn't vote for it. The other one. Once again, I am addressing both the deputies and the Head of Parliament. Those laws that you are voting on are taking away Ukrainian people, especially the people in the village, from getting medical attention. Your laws as well as medical reform, as well as pension reform, as well as the land reform so-called condemn Ukraine to slavery, to eternal poverty, to the raw materials of this world. Our policy is different: work and wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u176	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, I want to answer. The moment I got a call, I told you to delete the Vick card. I'll give you a line. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then he came up and said, "Why has my card been removed?" I want to emphasize when there are facts, make statements, and we'll react to them. Please, Yvchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u177	Please pass the word to colleague Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, some absolute cheese happens to these laws. At first, we are told about the reform of Parliament for forty minutes and how to follow the Rules and then vote on unknown people's cards. Then we have one here, one person speaking out of BPP, who won in a totally corrupt way 205 counties, so this level of corruption was not in any election. And he tells us that this law is not corrupt. It looks pretty surreal, you know. The biggest corrupter of this House is talking about the incorruption of this law. Then the faction that I truly respect and which always requires compliance with the Rules begins to demand that this issue be put to the vote ten times. People, you can tell if you're with the wise or you're with the pretty. Are you in favor of keeping the Rules, or will we vote ten times each time? And then, and then, when Andrew Parubius asks ten times more questions about voting, then there is no need to be so angry. So the standards have to be the same. This is the first time. As far as the matter is concerned. The fact is, insurance is now completely discredited by these two laws. Whatever we're going to tell you about the concept, this law was passed to Parliament in a fraudulent way. Instead of a profile committee, a non-professional committee was handed over, which is also a disease of this Parliament. He was dragged into the hall, knowing that there was no support on the profile committee, because there was a real discussion. Because we need to talk because we need to talk, because we need to talk about Ukrainian citizens first, not about our own corruption interests. And I have another simple question that doesn't directly apply to the law. Madam Minister, when will you issue an American passport, when will you become a Ukrainian citizen?Oh, my God! People here are being deprived of their mandate for having two citizens, and that's the right thing to do. When you give up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u179	Please, Yuri Solovay, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u180	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! I regret that very few colleagues in this room read the laws and really understand them. No one disagrees with the need for medical reform. But any reforms we make should not make things worse, but improve the quality of life of our citizens. We need to understand clearly that we have three lines of medicine. It's the primary, it's the field obstetrics, the infirmary, the clinics. There's a secondary, it's a district hospital. And thirdly, these are district facilities. So, dear fellows, we have a large share of disease and mortality just because the primary link of medicine through chronic and systemic underfunding has been placed on the verge of survival. What is suggested by these laws? These laws propose to essentially "get" the primary chain of medicine. For example, in the Belarusian OTH, today she receives a medical subsidy. And this was one of the motivations behind the creation of united territorial communities. By adopting these laws, we propose to take this medical subsidy to the central executive authority. By essentially "killing" not only the process of decentralization, but also essentially "killing" the motivation in united territorial communities to develop health care and provide more quality. And so if we want to develop medicine, our priority should be in the primary chain of medicine. And we need to not just cut down, we need to increase the funding of the united territorial communities through the subsidy mechanism. So that the united territorial communities can decide for themselves how to improve the quality of health care on the ground. Well, in that case, it's going to be a medical reform. And what is being suggested today is the destruction of rural medicine, which will ultimately lead to the destruction of the rural population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u181	Opposition Block, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u182	Please pass the word to Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u183	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. First of all, I would like to say about the gross violations of the rules. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you can have the right to a replica. I have to tell you, you don't just have a mistrust of MPs, you have a bad arithmetic. 227 votes minus Witka's card, what's it going to be? There are no two. The simple task is 225. Still no votes. What else do you need to put to the vote? And you call us to European standards, European parliamentaryism. How many times have you used a single signal that is not voting and voting? You are called specific names, where people are talking to each other about abuse, and you continue to insist on the results of the vote that are faked. And now to Mrs. Suprun. Mrs. Suprun, I want to ask you, are you there in your report that at the World Health Organization at the Assembly, which was said here: we will end the communist past. So I'll tell you, if there was a vote in the Communists that you're interested in, you're stuck with, and you're clapping a lot, you'd be hanging out on a branch a long time ago. You know, think about what you need to eliminate, the standards that you set here in a hall of violent reform that you can't even see, which means that you're not acting in the interests of the Ukrainian people, and you're doing everything you can to destroy. Because you know very well that the absence of doctors on the primary line in the rural area from your funding won nothing, and for the 210 bracelets that appear to be for one person, you don’t cure anything. And there will be no extra funding for today. So as you begin, you deserve to be immediately submitted, your candidacy for the approval of the minister. We're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u184	Mr. Igor, since there was a call for me, I'll just let you know. During the discussion, I was approached and emphasized that the MP was not in the hall. I gave him an order to remove the card. He came up to me and said, "Why did you have my card removed?" So, Mr. Igor, the Vitko you mentioned is in the hall and will have a replica. And it's going to have a replica. From now on, from the People's Front. I'll give it to everyone, I'll give it to everyone. Now from Self-Help, Egor Sobolev. Then from "the will of the people" let me know the head of the group to whom to give. Then Pisarenko, then Unguran. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u185	First. "self-help" condemns voting with foreign cards and calls on every MP to vote. Each such fact must be investigated. We never voted for each other and strongly against good things being done wrong. The other one. Today’s health system is very sick. It is designed to ensure that doctors themselves are interested in patients who will never recover. Patients ’ health is not financed, and beds are financed. Any doctor in charge thinks that this number of beds should not be reduced or reduced. Rather than being healthy, he is concerned that he will never recover. That's how the state funding system for medicine is built. That's a very good idea that's being suggested today. A doctor has to finance, he has to finance services, he has to finance the patient’s health. The doctor they're going to be treated for.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u186	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u187	The faction clearly supports this bill, will vote in person every national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u188	Colleagues, we've got two minutes, two shows. And that's why I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the heads of factions to invite deputies into the Hall, in a few minutes we will be making a decision under the second law, which is actually adjacent to that. Pisarenko, please, from Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. I wanted to say that yesterday I read very carefully sociology on many issues, and unfortunately, trust in Parliament today is at two or three percentage points. So out of a hundred Ukrainians, only two or three trust this Parliament. I want to say that the last vote is an example of why they don't trust us, what we talked about. Let's see what medical reform is. Today, there are many questions about reform. People cannot afford to be treated, and they need to be explained what reform will give them. We say there are problems, let's work. Let them present what's going to happen after that. No, you're knee-breaking Parliament, breaking the Rules. And I have one question for Mr. Sobolev, who has just spoken. Do you support voting if journalists show you that there were nonpersonal voting or not? So let each one of us watch what is happening in the hall, and we will not violate the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u190	Thank you. This is the closing act, Paul Unguran of the People's Front. And from WFP, I'm sorry. And there'll be Vitka's line. Also, yes, there will be Vitka's line. Please, Paul Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now considering amending the Budget Code, we have discussed several times on the Budget Committee, and this morning we have considered the faction regime. Clearly, any reform is an extremely painful process. We'd like to draw attention to the following with regard to the state-guaranteed package. It is very important for the second reading to maximize the state-guaranteed package so that it is presented not only in the thesis mode, but in the maximum detailed information package it has been brought to the citizens of Ukraine. The next very important question is to explain how to preserve the principles of decentralization, as this reform has already worked, including in the financial decentralization regime. Therefore, it is very important to prepare for the second reading for citizens of Ukraine, both in terms of the guaranteed government package and decentralization.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u192	Colleagues, now Vitka's lineup, were named after him. Vitek, one minute. Yeah, colleagues, wasn't there a performance from BP? Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u193	Friends, medical reform is what we should have done a long time ago, and by the way, now that we are looking at the activities of certain executives, we are increasingly convinced that we need to cut off the medical resources, the funds that are used to treat people, the administrative resources of local officials, whether it's rural or village heads. And these are the costs that should govern the relationship, the health of the doctor, and the patient. So I turn, there's no mistake about the one who never does anything. But the biggest crime that is now and may be in Ukraine is to do nothing. There are comments, there are shortcomings, there are suggestions that we will necessarily make in the second reading. We need to work, but the reform needs to start. Support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u194	Colleagues, we're going to vote, but it's just, I see, we've broken up. I ask to invite deputies to the Hall and Heads of factions, and to the Secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Excuse me, I'm also Mr. Mellnik Sergey Ivanovich from the committee. Please turn on the microphone Melnik Sergey Ivanovich. And please come into the hall, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u195	As a result of the discussion, honourable colleagues propose the following decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council, as a result of consideration, in the first reading of Bills 6329 and 6329-1, to adopt Bill 6329 on the basis of a bill, entrusting the Committee on Budget Issues to prepare the draft Bill for second reading and to submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council after the adoption of the whole basic Bill 6327.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u196	Colleagues, we're moving to a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And I would like to stress that there is only a personal vote in the room. I want to go to all the national MPs to stop any manifestations of non-personal voting that you see. Now we're going to the draft law, and I'm going to put the basic, then the alternative. I put the base first and then the alternative. So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (No. 6329) on the basis of a committee proposal, taking into account the Committee's position. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote and I'd like to vote in person. Please vote. [[13:08:26]] For-163 The decision is not taken. I next put to the vote an alternative bill 6329-1: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. Whoever supports the alternative, please vote for the basis, too. Vote. [[13:08:57]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, let's vote at least back to the committee for further work. Let us unite around this proposal. Let me wait a minute, let's call people, I'll wait a minute. I'm asking the Minister for two minutes now. Please, Uljana Suprun. Under this law, how do we act, explain that there are no votes for either and for the other, which will be a recommendation from the Ministry. Please, Uljana Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u197	Thank you. Thank you, National MPs for supporting Bill 6327, for launching and changing the health system. We're going to work with the profile committee on all the comments that are now being made so that we can work on them. And for 6329, it's a technical bill, it's a change to the budget code, which is necessary for us to be able to pay for medical services in a different way. Hopefully we can work it out then. And we're going to vote, we're going to re-vote to vote on this technical bill that will allow us to implement the first 6327, which is the basic bill. You know, I think we should be today. Be proud that we could take this first step toward reforming the health system. I think that the Ukrainian people, those who expect us to reform, those who look forward to improving their lives, will see changes in the coming months and in the coming years to improve their lives, their health. We'll work with the people's deputies, along with the committees. We have already been invited to present in detail on factions, on political councils, to finalize the bill and also to transmit this information to all our citizens so that they can understand how it will change. As for 6329, the amendments to the Budget Code, this is a technical bill, and we're going to work with the Budget Committee so that we can pass this bill, and we're voting for it mostly when the time is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u198	Thank you, colleagues. I gave it a minute to get together. We don't have votes for both base and alternative. Let's, colleagues, exchange our thoughts so that we can understand how to act. Heads of factions, please give us a recommendation as to how we're going to act, because he's just going to be rejected in this kind of discipline of MPs in this room. Please, Sergey Berezenko, WFP, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, this bill, 6329, is a bill of satellite before which we have already voted. In fact, it doesn't change anything; it just corrects the question of the Budget Code. If we put it down, it won't make any sense, because the 6327 job has already started. So if there are no votes in the room, let's at least vote together, or send it to the committee, or vote on it. We'll send the subject to transfer. This bill contains itself. Only on three pages. Therefore, there is no principled remark to unify the hall and vote, such as "send the subject to submission", no. It's just stupid to crash a bill. That's why BPP is for any intelligent design that could be proposed to the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u200	Thank you. Tell me, can there be any support to be sent to the committee? Is there any support for the committee? Let us now vote on the proposal: the committee for further work. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to everyone, I'll ask them in the hall. Now I'm going to give everyone, colleagues, ladies, I'm only going in sequence. People's Front. All right, so long, Maxim. Are you speaking or not talking about it? Okay. Then Igor Shurma, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u201	Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues, I have one thing to say to you. This vote in favour of this accompanying bill has shown that no one needs medical reform, at least 227 people who faked the vote together. It's not necessary. They left the hall. This means that they care about people’s health. And I'll tell you more: which means that the Minister's temporary duties did not explain the essence of the medical reform at all. They didn't explain that they were related bills. And she, knowing that there's a fake in the hall, fixed, she thanks the deputies. You're thanking me for faking it. You're not the standard in the Ukrainian Parliament, Mrs. Suprun. I'll tell you what, you've made yourself very bright today. The opposition block is waiting for you to run for the minister's approval. We'll be very happy to talk to you. And let's see what factions support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u202	Thank you. People's Front. Then. Colleagues, I'll tell you the sequence so you can get your bearings. The People's Front, then the Radical Party, then the Fatherland, then Self-Help. It's a deal, isn't it? Please, People's Front, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, we all know that these are circumstantial laws that need to be voted on. I'm sure the 227 votes that gave rise to the health reform in the country are 227 for our medicine to finally change for the better. And those who brought her into the pen with their experiments in 11-12 years are now telling us that we didn't do something were faked. But since you robbed this country, you still have to have a conscience. Would you tell us about the fake? No fakes! There was work, and there is responsibility. We need to take responsibility for reforming the country that you brought to the pen. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if sufficient votes are to be obtained now, are confident that there will be a need to vote in favour of the return of the subject to the legislative initiative to work on it, and give further impetus to health reform at the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u204	Thank you. Yvchenka, right? I'm sorry. It's okay. Ichenko from Fatherland. Next up, Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u205	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you can see today that there is consensus in the room. Everyone understands that medical reform is necessary. Everyone offers suggestions. The Medical Committee wants to work together and make a comprehensive project. You're squeezing votes for anything because of buttons today. You're destabilizing the voting day today. We as the Fatherland will not now vote until you put the vote to the vote. If there is a consensus of factions for the reform, let's see the votes. If not, let's work it out. We're ready, we've taken part, directly, in the task force, you know, and we're supporting a medical committee today that wants to take all the suggestions into account. Why are you so eager today? Is it possible that everyone is insisting on the distribution of 80 billion dollars? Colleagues, let's carry out the reform that we did to the police or other law enforcement agencies there, not as we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u206	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u207	It's not like we're reforming the courts. Let's take a comprehensive approach. Today, believe me, there is a desire to reform the health system. But to ensure that those who are unable to pay have access to medical services. We will not participate until you bring justice to the Supreme Council Hall. Prove that there are 226 votes for the adoption of the relevant previous bill, otherwise we do not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u208	From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u209	Oleg Lazko. How to avoid loving the Ukrainians in order to deceive them. The medical reform that relates to life, the health of every person living in Ukraine, you are considering a reduced procedure. Medical reform, on which life depends on young children to older ones, you vote contrary to the Constitution and click. You do this in the worst traditions of Yanukovic, which you've all fought against, and today you always mention him. Medical reform, pension reform, land reform, should be the subject of social compromise. These reforms must unite people. You can't break through the knee one part of society because you need to get a memorandum from the IMF and get another loan from the International Monetary Fund. Reforms should not be done for the IMF, not for loans, but for the citizens themselves. Government, government, the Comprador majority, you've forgotten who you're working for, you've forgotten who posted you here, who you're reforming for. Certainly not for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u210	Colleagues, now we're going to make a closing statement from Self-Help, and then we're going to vote. I've given enough time to invite MPs into the hall, colleagues. There'll be a vote in a minute. I'm asking everyone to come to work. From Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk, right? Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u211	Medical reform in Ukraine has not yet begun. And this bill is a draft bill before the changes in medical reform begin. This bill, or now the law, in the first reading adopted, it takes money from an oligarically dependent official who, on January 1st of every year, takes this money and doesn't give it to people, but decides what to do with it, depending on who the best man is and who isn't the best man, and gives it to the patient. And now the patient will choose a professional free doctor. And all those who oppose these bills are the people who are responsible for the oligaric rule of this state. Let us not take away people’s hope. Let's vote for this bill. If it does not pass, the committee will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u212	Colleagues, I've put twice the supply of both base and alternative. I am now making the following proposals, which are provided for by legislation and regulations. So now I'm asking everyone to unify around the proposal so that we can return 6329 to the committee for work, for the first time again. This could be a compromise offer. Please. There's a committee that's looking, friends. So the first one. I'm making a motion for a vote. To be sent to the Committee for rereading 6329 and 6329-1. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:21:16]] For 197 Colleagues, the final offer is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Let us at least put proposals together around this. So, colleagues, I'm making the final offer. This will restore the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. It gives us a chance not to lose the bill. Otherwise, it will be rejected. I ask you to unite and to vote on the proposal that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (6329 and 6329-1) should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote, please support. Please vote only in person. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:22:23]] For 206 Sorry, it's not even 2-3 votes. I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (6329 and 6329-1) rejected. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Constitutional Conduct Act (Nos. 6427, 6427-1 and 6427-d (worked). And I would like to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be right with you in the apparatus, just a second. Ruslan, there are over 100 articles? [[B in m in s a l in]] Look. Please turn on Ruslan Knyazevitch's microphone, it's a legal committee, he'll explain to us how to act. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u213	Honorary colleagues, the fact is that the bill on constitutional conduct, which stands the first, recalled by the author, is the subject of the legislative initiative, since he joined the authorship of another bill, a parliamentary one. That's why there's no subject right now. And I would ask the first draft not to consider it at all, but to consider only a corresponding bill. And if someone wants another author, let them do it. So there are no obstacles to doing this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u214	Mr. Ruslan, the question was different. I actually got Alexey's application to withdraw his bill. I have a question: Do the other two have more than 100 articles or less than 100 articles? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u215	Bill 67 of the articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u216	I'll make a fair decision, colleagues, don't worry. Colleagues, I have decided that this bill should be considered in full procedure. And we're going to look at it. The only thing I want to tell you. Mr. Ruslan, pay attention! We're going to the other one. I'm going to call it a break, and we're not going to make it until after the fourth. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, now the Head of the Supreme Council is holding a brief consultation with the Head of the Professional Committee, because one of the drafters of the bill, and we now have three alternative bills, particularly Mr. Alekseyev, has asked in connection with the fact that he has joined as co-author in the other bill of his which is going to be the first to be removed from consideration. And now you can make a statement that he's asking him to take it off the table. And now there's a little consultation, and in a minute, we're going to go over the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u218	Thank you. Colleagues, so I announced my decision, we're going to review the draft Law on Constitutional Conduct in full procedure. And I invite you to 6227, 6427-1, 6427-d. Please don't yell at the first deputy, Sergey Vlasenko. Do not arouse interfractional hostility. And I would like to invite you to the address of Ukrainian national deputy Odarchenka Yuri Vitaliyovich. Will you be from the rostrum or from the seat, Yuri Vitaliovich? Ah, the rostrum's blocked. There's no way. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u219	Dear Head, well, I would like to point out that you are in violation of the Rules on another occasion. Mr. Andrey, if the author of the bill has withdrawn his bill from consideration, you have no right to do it alone. Look in the Rules, you have to put it to a vote, and if Parliament supports the motion to withdraw the bill, it will be removed. You are now taking over functions that you are also making decisions that Parliament must make, not personally as Head. It's very sad that we're the Constitutional Conduct Act we're essentially starting with serious regulatory violations, and you, without even looking at this story by voting on the medical law, you're continuing the same practice. It's very sad, Mr. Andrey. Now for the law. Dear friends, many years in Ukraine have been trying to make a fair trial, to make a fair trial, but unfortunately all the time in Ukraine, it turns out that every authority builds the winning courts. The courts, which can only carry out the decisions that are required today by the President, who is ruled by the majority, serve them. And there were some very serious and bad examples where a few years ago, the Yanukovich government condemned Julia Timoshenko when she came up against the gas mafia and did everything as Prime Minister to throw out the gas supply broker in Ukraine, RossUkre Energo. At that time, the mob gathered together and ordered the courts to take decisions that condemned Julia Timoshenko. And the active authorities were delighted that they had a hand - handed court to decide with the help of Kiriev what questions they were asked. Similar trials are now being repeated when today’s authorities are trying to build victory courts, which will be judged not by law, not by law, but by the law of the winners. The vanquished will be condemned. And that's why I'd like all the deputies to pay attention to that. And by voting in favour of the Constitutional Conduct Act, we did everything we could to ensure that this court was uninvolved and that it was not subordinated to the authorities. Dear friends, what is being done in that bill that the authorities are proposing? They try to bribe the judges of the Supreme Court by setting them a basic salary of 180,000 dollars. Attention! Dear TV sets and radio audiences! The base salary for the Constitutional Court is equal to 180,000 dollars. The other supplements are going to be about 50,000 or 60,000 dollars. Pensions, which they call shyly "decent maintenance," will be 90 percent of the salary. Today's predominant majority, the President of Ukraine is doing everything in his power to bribe the judges of the Constitutional Court, to make them dependent and to make the decisions they need. That's the first argument. Second argument. The competition commission, which is proposed by the ruling majority, today does not make the selection of judges transparent and fair. The judges will be chosen in a biased way, which means they will be dependent on power, and this is also a bad story for Ukraine, we have to take this into account. Dear colleagues, it has been more than six months since the Constitutional Court of Ukraine had to open its doors to all our citizens and allow every Ukrainian to challenge unconstitutional law. It has happened that in Ukraine the Constitutional Court has never been a truly independent body, in an absolute majority of cases the court has been subject to valid authority, only making decisions that the President's Administration agrees on, even now the Constitutional Court continues this practice by refusing to deal with uncomfortable cases. The bill that I have drafted foresees bringing the Constitutional Court closer to people, making it possible for anyone who has suffered from unconstitutional laws to achieve justice, and creating preconditions for creating a truly independent court that would not be subject to any branch of power. The main bill only declares that there are competitions for judges. In fact, a competitive commission, it is subject to the authority and will only make a recommendation list from which the Supreme Council, the President, or the assembly of judges will elect candidates. In doing so, the criteria for conducting the contests are not clear, allowing for almost unlimited manipulation with their results. I'm proposing really independent competition commissions that will select candidates according to the criteria of expertise. These competitions will be conducted directly under public scrutiny, and as a result, the appointing authority will be limited in its choice, since it will only be able to appoint winners. I'm proposing an essential requirement for the independence of judges, and they won't have the right to have private meetings with any high-level employer. That is, never again will the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister, be able to summon the judges of the Constitutional Court to, so-called, carpet and give instructions. We are also offered the full openness of the court. All cases will be dealt with exclusively in open court proceedings. I don't understand the opponents who cover themselves with phrases about some sort of quasi-judgment system in the Constitutional Court and therefore suggest that the courts be tried in offices without parties. World experience shows that the openness of processes is the greatest guarantee of just decisions. What about stress? So I remind you that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is the least-loaded court in Ukraine, it has always been due to a rather narrow scope of their powers. Moreover, 90 percent of the time is determined and spent making decisions. So it is possible to spend 30 minutes listening. As an example, the U.S. Supreme Court, which, apart from testing non-constitutional laws, also examines cassation complaints, has 9,000 appeals a year, only 120 of which meet the criteria of acceptance, but each is subject to hearings. With a view to optimizing the work of the Constitutional Court, we are proposing the creation of two senators, as it is written, not the creation of two Senatees, as stated in the majority bill, but the decision of the Chamber will be considered. A key element of our project is the constitutional conduct process, clearly regulated by the court's rules, namely this law, which we propose to vote for. Like a civil or administrative process: its participants have rights and responsibilities, there is a procedure for dissuading biased judges, a regulated procedure for providing explanations and providing evidence. Dear colleagues, by creating a system of biased court selection, a system of judicial dependence, we are now. We are convinced that the authorities are setting absolutely specific goals for themselves from the work of these courts. The Constitutional Court now has a number of deputies who are filing a moratorium on the sale of land. To our conviction, if a bill on constitutional conduct is voted by a valid authority, it will open a completely wide gateway to the possible sale of land for agricultural purposes. It will be very convenient for the authorities to say that it is not the Supreme Council, it is not the President who is initiating the sale of land for agricultural purposes, but rather the body, such as the Constitutional Court, that has taken the appropriate decision. And that's why I'm asking my colleagues to look at the adoption of this bill because of the possible consequences, namely by opening gateways to sell land for agricultural purposes, for sale of Ukrainian motherland, Ukrainian land. Please vote in favour of my bill and leave the committee's bill uncontested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u220	Thank you, Your Honor. Including that you have recalled the rules of the Rules regarding the consideration or non-examination of the bill if the author has made a claim that he is asking to be withdrawn. As you know, it is impossible to consider a bill if the author refuses to report it from the rostrum. And there's only one author in this bill, Alexeiev, and he says he won't report it because he wants to participate in the report of another bill, which is the third alternative. And so I'm asking you not to talk about breaking the Rules where they don't exist. We're working on the Rules now. I now give the floor to the author of the alternative bill 6427-d, this is national deputy Ruslan Knazević. And by the way, Sergey Alekseyev joined the bill. Please pass, Mr. Ruslan, to your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u221	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor. Well, frankly, I'd rather not have today reminding me so much about the rain on April 11th when I, as chairman of the committee on the bench of the session hall, spent eight hours trying to convince the deputies of the purpose of enacting the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I? I'm reporting. the appropriateness of the adoption of the Constitutional Court Act as a whole during the second reading procedure. You remember this whole story that ended, unfortunately, with nothing. And what happened after that was that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexeyev, registered the Constitutional Conduct Act, was a reaction, an attempt to save the situation, because you know that it was absolutely absurd for the Supreme Council, which a year ago in a single wave, in fact, more than a constitutional number of votes -- 330 votes -- decided to amend the Constitution in part of the judiciary, where it provided for a new chapter on activity, the principle of the legal status of the procedure for dealing with matters in the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, over the course of this year and has not been able to implement the relevant decisions on changes to the Constitution to adopt a special constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, where all these issues are to be settled. So now we have this strange situation where we have to react very quickly. What happened is that you know that the Constitutional Court recently ended its term as a number of judges, and now the Constitutional Court is virtually ineffective. In order to relaunch its activities in order to enable it to operate under new constitutional conditions, it is necessary to adopt the Constitutional Court Act, since the Constitution clearly states that the formation of the new Constitutional Court, the election of new judges of the Constitutional Court must be carried out solely in accordance with the special Act "On the Constitutional Court of Ukraine". What do we have for this minute? After our colleague Alexiev's constitutional conduct bill was registered, according to our colleague Odarchenko exercised his constitutional right as a subject of the law of the legislative initiative, he registered another bill, an alternative, with the same title: "Constitutional judiciary". But in addressing these issues at the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, which is a profile for the consideration of issues relating to the constitutional and legal status of the Constitutional Court, the Committee concluded that it would be appropriate to use the 110th part of the Second Law of Ukraine "On the Rules of the Supreme Council" and to propose to Parliament a new, third, parliamentary draft law that would reflect, in the opinion of the Committee, the basics of that bill, which we, unfortunately, did not adopt last time, without taking into account the things that had taken place during the parliamentary session. In this regard, we made such a decision. Most members of the committee not only supported the idea but also agreed to coauthorize the bill. And so when the chairman called me an alternate author today, I'd like to make a few things clear: I'm one of the co-authors, and the other co-authors are actually all the members of the committee who supported this kind of idea, and even those who didn't, but let's say, expressed themselves in favour of further developments in that direction. And so very briefly, let me, on behalf of a group of these lawmakers, co-authors of the bill, identify the basic positions of the parliamentary bill, which is an alternative to the two bills mentioned above. You recall the number of complaints during the consideration of the Constitutional Court bill in the session hall that concerned the so-called salary or the judicial remuneration, as the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian legislation rightly states. And so we decided on the committee to continue to propose to the Parliament the judges' remuneration of the Constitutional Court simply to compare, as provided for by the Transitional Amendments to the Constitution, the Court of Justice Act to the remuneration that judges of the Supreme Court receive without any coefficients and allowances. So I want to correct just a reporter who calls some amount that's based on that bill that was taken off the table today rather than calculating the proposals that we have in our bill. Similarly, I think it's totally unconscionable to say that we want to save all the corresponding supplements and secretly write them in a bill. I am absolutely responsible on behalf of the authors, on behalf of the Committee, I declare that we have removed from the text of the bill a reference to any supplement: for years of service, for being in office, for every year of exercising judicial authority in the Constitutional Court. Instead, they left only one allowance for administrative positions. Since this supplement is not only provided for by legislation according to the Constitutional Court but also by special legislation on pay. Any manager in any institution has a slightly higher wage ratio than, respectively, the regular members of this institution. And the Constitutional Court here can be no exception. It's important. The other one. I want to correct just what nonsense the night before this report that we want to help bribe the judges of the Constitutional Court so that they can do the will of power for the future. In this bill, we have removed all, without exception, possible benefits for the judges of the Constitutional Court, especially the possibility of getting them a service home. We've eliminated the possibility of getting compensation for renting housing. We've eliminated the possibility of getting vacations, so it's even provided for by other legislation. We've eliminated the possibility of getting compensation for recovery. We removed the possibility of getting compensation for moving to Kiev. And they removed all the benefits that could theoretically be saved for the judges of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the bill now has only a net salary and no other payment for the judges of the Constitutional Court. Similarly, by consensus we have removed standards that allowed for 90 percent of the monthly life-long cash receipt for retired judges. We've cut almost twice that amount. And please look at the percentages we left behind, you'll be pleasantly surprised. The following is true of retired judges, since this rule was also very controversial in the Constitutional Hall. We have removed the rule on the possibility of their inviolability and after the termination of the powers of the acting judges of the Constitutional Court. These judges will continue to be ordinary citizens who, according to legislation, will bear the same responsibility in the same order as any ordinary Ukrainian citizen if there are grounds. We have further removed from the bill all the norms that could, in terms of discussion, in one way or another affect the notion of openness and access to justice. We left only what was in principle supported, and there were no warnings during the consideration of the bill. And finally, we removed from the bill, from the Transitional Regulations, its standards, which were not directly related to the Constitutional Court Act, but were designed to provide for adjacent, say, judicial and non-convictional institutions, on which certain changes had been made. In particular, the Laws on Courtship and the Status of Judges, Notariat and other laws that did not directly apply to the subject matter of constitutional regulation. We left only one change in the Transitional Positions, which comes directly from the Constitutional Court Act itself, namely the amendment to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, where we are restoring the institution of the Authorized Representative of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Constitutional Court, as it was before. And it was only during the so-called "small reform" of 2010 that this institution was removed in Janukovich's time. And it is now necessary to restore justice so that the Constitutional Court can be properly represented in this high-level State constitutional body. And properly as an appropriate body, the subject of submission to the Constitutional Court could represent his position. So, dear fellows, there is no warning that we will now adopt this bill as a basis for you and that we can move further in peace, because all the things that unfortunately made it impossible to adopt the previous bill as a whole, which is not the subject of this bill at all, and that is why there is no discussion. Let's move. And let us restart the Constitutional Court, without which, unfortunately, too many Ukrainian citizens who have exercised their right to a constitutional complaint cannot wait for justice. People are asking you, people are asking you not to delay this process, but today you are actively joining it. Thank you very much. I look forward to the support of our law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u222	Thank you, Your Honor. It is absolutely right that there should now be questions to the rapporteurs under the Rules. We didn't have a question for Mr. Odarchenk, we had no questions for Mr. Knazevitch. So now I'm asking you to sign up for Mr. Odarchenk's question, and then there will be questions for Mr. Knazevitch. Please register with Mr. Odarchenk for a question under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u223	Please, Babak Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u224	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u225	Thank you. I have a question from a procedural point of view. Please tell your bill whether it meets the requirements laid down in article 107 of the Rules that similar bills cannot be submitted in substance if they have been rejected during the next session? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u226	We've changed the essence of the law and therefore we think we have reason to consider it right now. We've been passing this bill, realizing that the authorities will be passing a bill that will be able to form the courts by hand. So we had an alternative bill. And I want to ask you a few more questions about the salary. Mr. Ruslan reported that the low salary is comparable to that of the Supreme Court judges, so I want to tell the radio and television audience that the salary of the Supreme Court judge is 120,000. And the pension he was bragging about being substantially reduced, 60,000 is going to be, 50 percent. I think it is also a disgrace that the people of Ukraine, in general poverty, do not have to endure. In our bill, the salary paid by the Constitutional Court judge is likened to the salary paid by a member of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u227	Thank you. Please, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u228	Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for your work. Because the question is important. You've made a bill, you'll present it here today. And really, we realize that there are both weaknesses and strengths. But what matters today in the daytime is very good. I'd probably ask you a question if, I think, in the future, I have an opportunity to say my opinion on this subject at all. But two such questions. How do you see how we can get in the Constitutional Court those judges who can't carry out any further pressure on power or opposition or money or anything else? Because you're saying that you don't need big wages, you don't need benefits, you don't need anything. But as your bill says we'll get honest, independent, first of all, judges who won't worry that they need to pass laws on the distinction, the elimination of illustrations, other social benefits and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u229	Well, first of all, our bill clearly sets out the procedure for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. It's a three-step, three-step competition. And at the end of the third stage and the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine will be able to choose from the judges the right candidates from only two winners. All of this is happening in an open way to demonstrate this procedure on the Internet. And we see that in this particular procedure, including we will have a certain guarantee of the selection of the appropriate judges of a certain quality. Then our bill clearly provides for the openness of the procedure for discussing issues that will apply to the process, is not closed, as in the committee's draft, when the judges will meet and deal with matters in a closed manner, in an open manner, so that everyone can see who is making the decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u230	Feldman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u231	Then please, Vlasenko Sergei. Please, Vlasenko Sergei. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u232	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Yuri Vitaliovich Odarchenko, I have a question for you. Bill 6427-d, which is one of the alternatives to your bill, in fact, with all due respect to colleague Knazević, is not a bill by Knjazević, it's a bill by Prašenka, and that's why he's sitting here in a room staring from Dustenk in the name of the Philates. Alexei Filatov is a famous man who gives instructions to judges who need to be prosecuted, and he sits here and watches the Supreme Council vote in favour of the powdery bill. I have a question: Why is the authorities so squandering the powder bill? Without the conclusion of the GNEU, only yesterday, by handing it out just today, and now it is being asked to be pushed out, and your bill, well, is being wiped out a little bit. Why do you think, Yuri Vitaliovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u233	Mr. Sergei, thank you for asking. Look, the Knyazevitch project came up with this exact express regime. He is under consideration today and, unfortunately, I did not even get to know him well. I am convinced that today President Poroshenko, along with his Administration, wants to form an independent body, the Constitutional Court is dependent on which to legitimize the decisions it needs. As for me, right now in the daytime, and this is announced by the authorities openly, it's a question of possible sale of land for the salt industry, removing the moratorium from the sale of land for the salt industry. I'm convinced that today, by creating this dependent organ, the first question he's going to consider is removing the moratorium on the sale of land for agriculture. That is why this question is being considered so quickly. The goal of this is to sell land for agricultural purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u234	Thank you. We are now moving to a question-and-question report to the head of the Ruslan Knazevitch Committee. Please record a question to Knazevitch. Please sign up. Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u235	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u236	Thank you for being able to ask questions. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I would like to ask the honourable chairman of the committee about how much of the bill you presented to us differs from the table that was considered in this room less than a month ago in a similar draft for second reading, except for those issues that you mentioned regarding social security in other matters, such as competition, conduct, organisation of the work of the Constitutional Court and so on? And how much do you think that this bill meets the requirements of the Rules that a bill that has already been rejected in this session cannot be considered during a continuing session? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u237	I thank you very much for asking, by the way, a professional question, unlike, let's say, the author of one of the bills that gives fairly unprofessional answers, but that's not the point. Ms. Olena, by the way, you know, this is a discussion about nothing, because the Knyazevich is not the author, but he is the co-author of the bill, where all the members of the committee that supported this idea have volunteered to be co-author, given that the committee has had to respond adequately to the situation that has arisen, because a number of bills have already been registered, and we have not agreed, including the concept that was presented to them, offered their views, certainly based on that previous concept, but the question of the bill is not a matter of the committee. The committee's question is to respond properly to the situation, and propose a model that fits both the Constitution and so that it can work in practice. As to how much it's going to be changed. Well, he's changed a lot. I don't know if you've had the chance to look at it, including part of the competition, in part. I'm about a hundred.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u238	Please, 30 seconds. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u239	As far as the contest is concerned. We rewrote, in general, the competition vision, especially in the Supreme Council, taking into account the proposals that were made last time, and taking into account the position contained in the series of alternative bills. The thing is, you know, you can write any good intentions for any super-competition in any position, but we know that in the Ukrainian realities, the Supreme Council has, well, that kind of, you know, a completely political body. And we would very much like to have a competitive commission working hard to achieve the result in the hall. So we tried to offer a mix that would reach its goal from the perspective of making the right decisions rather than just doing a good - quality job. That's the first one. And the second. About Filatov. His last name was mentioned here, and he can't get the right to a replica. I want to say that Alexy Filatov was invited to report on another bill that we have not yet reached. But this bill was in the order of the day an hour ago. So I would ask you not to manipulate, but to read the order of the day that we are with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u240	Thank you. Please, Olenna's Scream.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u241	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. First of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council very much for the full procedure. I think it's the right thing to do, and such a bill has to be considered in full procedure. But I want to pay attention to both the heads of Mr. Knazevitch's committee and the national deputies, and in fact, the Ukrainians, that we do not yet have the shared conclusion of the Supreme Council's scientific and expert administration on either the first bill or the second alternative to Mr. Knazevitch and the committee members. In fact, there is article 112 of the Ukrainian Rules, which states that such conclusions must be given at least seven days before the matter is considered. So far, we can't read critical remarks and important warnings from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Therefore, I ask not to violate the Rules, but to postpone the consideration of this bill once such conclusions have been reached. Including, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Knazević what happened to the Mediation Bill (3665), which, unlike this bill, was adopted in the first reading on 3 November 2016 and, therefore, has not yet been prepared by the Committee for second reading. So let's go ahead and do the bills that are waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u242	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u243	Thank you. Those bills that have long been adopted in the first reading are to be processed by the committee, the working group, and I ask Mr. Knazevitch to ensure that. And those bills that don't even have the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority have to be suspended, and we're going to have them professionally, professionally, quickly, I'm sure we'll have a good look at them in the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u244	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u245	I'll try to answer in turn. As for the conclusions, they are and I don't know why you don't have them. This is the first one. But it is unfortunate that national MPs are not able to evaluate the bills themselves, but they are waiting only for expert conclusions to be drawn to their thoughts during the session room. It's very sad. As for the Mediation Act, you recently addressed me, frankly, I was a little surprised by the situation. And in support of your appeal, he gave the task to the head of the subcommittee, because we had a separate decision of the committee to assign a subcommittee on the basis of a subcommittee to create a working group and to immediately make appropriate proposals to the committee. Since this work was not carried out for some reason, we discussed the matter yesterday, including on the committee, and agreed that in the near future the subcommittee would properly assemble such a working group and that a committee would be invited to take action on one of the following meetings. I agree with you that it is unacceptable for us to break the first and second reading of such important bills within almost six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u246	Thank you. And the last question, the Headman is passing it on to Andrew Illenck. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u247	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, we all understand that the issue of the Constitutional Court is very important. We realize that, unfortunately, in the history of Ukrainian statehood, the Constitutional Court has played a very often sad role. We remember his completely absurd decisions regarding the third term of the presidential term, his actual participation and the key role in the coup d’état that took place in 2010, when Yanukovic, through the Constitutional Court, usurped power in the country, and some judges are still valid judges of the Constitutional Court that made the coup d’état. And that's why we need to be as careful as we can at this point as possible so that we don't step on these rakes again. And for us, for example, the question of the selection of candidates for the seat of the Constitutional Court judge should be as narrow as possible so that it doesn't work out now as with the Supreme Court, when we talk about competitions, about everything, these new principles. But in fact, those who condemned, for example, banned shares during Maidan, the mare corrupters, the people who travel to Russia 20 times a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u248	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u249	I don't want to go back retrospectively into the third term story, because it was a decision made by another composition of the Constitutional Court. Here, by the way, a lot of people are saying that we had the perfect first composition of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, they're blaming him for making that decision, so here we have to figure out first. Second, with regard to those judges who made decisions in 2010? Such judges are now in the composition of the Constitutional Court. And this bill is exactly the mechanism for these judges, such a plan of judges, not to exist, but for new judges to come. Mr. Andrew, it is you and I in the session room that we will determine which one of them will support. It is no longer the WCC, not the GWP, no one, it is the parliamentary right to fill its quota by voting. And without our votes, no one will make that decision. So let's not translate responsibility into someone, let's move forward, start this process. Because if we don't back him up now, these judges will continue their work again and we'll complain about it again. But we do nothing to change the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u250	Thank you. My colleagues, let me tell you what the logic of work will be. I'll ask one more question, then there'll be a four-hour break and then there'll be statements from political factions, and statements from deputies. All those desiring to speak will be able to speak, for so many approach me, it will follow the full procedure. Please continue for five minutes. That's the last question, Andrew Lozov. And then there'll be a break. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u251	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u252	The fish pass it on to Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u253	What kind of legal state can justice be spoken of if our beautiful European civilised state is transformed into some North Korea? We don't have an ombudsman right now, we don't have an authorized Human Rights Council. Because Mrs. Lutkovska is an ombudsman parody, not a human rights defender. It does, by being selected in an illegal way, Lutkovska served the regional regime, covering total human rights violations, serving this authority, carrying out all the demands of Attorney General Lucenk, simply spitting on human rights, looting grants that are intended to protect human rights rather than coming. So it's a disgrace that the various ways of power undermines the election of the Ombudsman. The Radical Party faction put Andrija Mamaligu, the lawyer, there are other candidates, the authorities are all way to break the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-08-m0.u254	Mr. Ruslan, I understand it was a performance, not a question, right? And so, colleagues, once again, at 16 o'clock, we're going to start recording from the factions, and then there's going to be a recording from the national MPs. And then the decision will be taken, and now, according to the Rules, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares closed. At 4:00 p.m., I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. But before we go, I would like to read out an announcement that, in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Parliamentaries for Peace" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine: Heratschenko Anton, Bogobolec Olga, Bilocerkovec Dmitry, Popov Igor, Merchant Yuri, Dubyl Valerius, Barbinenko Vitalia, Bezbach Jacob. Welcome to the creation of the group. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
