ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Thank you, Your Honor. Please come into the hall. As the MPs enter the hall, I would like to welcome the children who have come for a tour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Grošovetske Rural Council. Welcome! [[Applause]] Your strength, your inspiration. And I hope everyone was nice and Santa brought everybody presents. Nice Santa and good luck to you. Thank you. And, colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, we'll wait one more minute. And I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall because we're going to start voting for a reduced procedure. Please. So, are your colleagues ready? I ask the National Deputies to sign up for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:06:45.]] 356 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The Presidium was approached by two factions: Self-help factions and factions. What's the second faction? What's the second faction? "Paternity." From two factions, Fatherland and Self-Help, with a request for a recess. Are they ready to replace it with a performance or a real break? So we agreed that both factions -- Self-help and Fatherhood -- would not take a real break, they would just make a statement. And, colleagues, I want to consult with you. They're about to make a statement and, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, I've got it. So, are you ready for the show? Ready. Please, three minutes and we'll continue our work. Oleg Beresuk, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have returned from the agrarian forum. Such anger and hatred and mistrust, which the MPs of Self-Help, the Fatherland and the People's Front have experienced in this forum, have long been gone. People who have three hundred, five hundred, a thousand, two, three thousand acres [three thousand ha] of land hate those who take their money without asking them how to do so. People who don't mind being in Ukraine, and would like to see the agricultural processing industry grow in Ukraine, but not in the way of taking money out of the farmer's pocket. So the members of the agrarian committee gathered today, registered Law 7403, which corrects this shameful situation when an oligarhat simply stupidly takes money to the peasants and asks the Chief of the Supreme Council today to bring this issue into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u4	Only in order for the committee to consider it, the tax committee, the agrarian committee, and on Thursday this shameful mistake of mistreatment of a peasant in Ukraine was corrected by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u5	Guys, I heard a speech. Time doesn't pass. Colleagues, all the bills that are registered are automatically proposed to be included in the agenda of the day session. So, I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to give me the bill that was in question, and I don't think there's any difficulty in proposing that the hall be placed in the order of the day session, and the hall will be determined by voting. Of course I do, yes. So, colleagues, we move on to the next question of the fuel-energy complex block. The committee suggests that the next issue from the bloc should be considered in the draft Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act (as regards the ban on the establishment of public-inhabitant counters to natural gas consumers). This is 6277 and 5722. And, colleagues, I have an offer to support his consideration of the reduced procedure and I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and I'm asking you to support this proposal, we're continuing the block of the fuel-energy complex. Please vote and please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[16:13:09]] For 112 There's no room permission for a reduced procedure. That's why we're going to look at it. Once again, the drafter proposes the bill. I'll do it again. You're working with your faction. I'll make another offer. Therefore, who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:13:48]] For-123 Too much voice loss. We're moving on to draft Law 6277 and 5722. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kaplan Sergio Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u6	Sergey Kaplin, 144th constituency, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to address all my colleagues here right now. Now we're going to be looking at a bill that has something to do with, practically, each of your constituents. I emphasize that millions of Ukrainians are now waiting for us to regulate the installation order, the first, the public building counters, and the second, the individual counters. We must reject all of you without exception political moments. All, without exception, Ukrainian citizens can now get rid of, in fact, the genocide of gas companies that violently come into the courts of your electorate, dear colleagues, and set up absolutely illegal, without asking our citizens, the public-aware counters. The result is an incredible injustice: A person who consumes less gas under such conditions pays for a person who takes over the right limit is actually a poor person who pays for a rich person. Over the past few years, our team has fought in all areas of the country, in large, small cities, along with the people’s deputies, who have been chosen in a major way in these areas, against this saviour. And I want to thank now all the nardepahs of all of them, without exception the factions that have joined in this fight, we have often been able to stop the gas mafia, which, contrary to the healthy logic which, contrary to the Constitution, the current legislation and the main thing, has tried, at people's will, in a violent, illegal way to establish such a counter. I want to thank the public movement, the public organizations, the Asians who won with us and stopped this gas mafia. The other one. Two bills are proposed for consideration in Parliament today. We are prepared to make any compromise that the rule that, without the consent of 10 percent of the residents of the house was implemented here and voted by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're prepared for any compromises until our version of the bill is removed, so that the rule of continuation of the possibility of force deployment and the cost of the gas companies of individual counters is extended to 2021. I want to emphasize once again, now the pensioners, the workers, the ordinary Ukrainians are watching this broadcast of "The Council" and they hope that there will be a successful vote here today. During the last year, nearly half a million signatures were collected in support of the bill. I would like to thank separately the inhabitants of Odessa, Nicholas, Poltava, Vincenzo, Lviv, the inhabitants of the entire country who have joined in this fight. This was preceded by an incredibly difficult, tiny job. The people clearly and emphatically expressed their support for the bill. I realize that there aren't enough people in this room right now to make that decision. I can see how the leaders of the individual political forces are letting the team not vote because this bill was introduced by the People's Deputy Kaplan. We're willing to make any compromises, in particular to vote on a bill tabled by a group of national MPs just to get justice today, we've actually been able to take away the gas mafia's legacy, which has been running for a long time in our backyards. I'm addressing factions leaders on behalf of your constituents. You have today at the time that you've left to consider the bill, to mobilize the entire presence here in Ukraine of your deputy corps to give people the bill they're looking for today. I am deeply convinced that today there is still the potential to make the right decision, the decision that our countrymen are waiting for with you, your constituents. This is one of a number of drafts developed by the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, which is meant to provide an absolute order in the gas market, water supply, heat, and which is actually meant to protect the interests of ordinary Ukrainians. This bill will contribute to demonopolization, in fact deligarization. This is a bill one that will allow justice to be achieved, which unfortunately is being pursued today. Today, you and I have the strength to show the right political will and to make the right decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u7	Thank you. Stay where you are. Please sign up to ask the reporter a question. Please hold the recording. I would like to invite you to the floor of the people's deputy Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u8	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. The topic that you have raised is a really complicated, painful topic, but I do not think it is a complete solution to the issues facing consumers today. And how do you feel about the second direction of this topic? Today, we consume gas, the calorieity of that gas, unfortunately, no one is able to determine. Those single labs that once existed, they are either not working at this time or broken, or they need enormous funding to make money. To determine the calorieity of the gas today, we need to contact the same supplier that will tell you. Now, here's a practical question. You're going to talk to any grandmother who uses gas today. She'll tell you that if she had a teapot in 15 minutes yesterday, he'll be boiling in 25 to 30 minutes. And this grandmother is better than any engineer, better any lab will tell you the calorie state of this gas. And how do you feel about this subject, shouldn't the issue be resolved in the complex at all? And in order to define clearly, so to speak, the consumption measure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u9	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u10	I completely agree with the thesis that there is a problem. What is more, today we have other important questions that you have raised directly. Particularly important is the emphasis on the costs that were allocated directly to companies that supplied gas and were supposed to be directed to ensure that our citizens count. We know with you that, I think, even later, colleague Kugel will confirm this information, will provide a more detailed explanation that a huge amount of money today was actually aimed, not at installing counters, but at offshore, at financing especially political parties, separate political parties. And that's not just a gas problem. This is a problem that has to do with "The Crutch" and the behavior of the individual oligarchs who owned companies yesterday. What actually happened? In fact, our grandmothers took the station phone and took the wire radio and then handed it back to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u11	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask you to speak to the national deputy Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u12	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. I have a question for my colleague. We know very well with you that today the market for gas consumption is monopolized. And the monopoly is Mr. Firtash. We know very well that the so-called independent regulator actually supports inaction the criminal policy of the Firtas in relation to the consumer because they demand the establishment of the very trigger counters. How do you feel about the bill making it clear that only on condition that all the coowners of the house agree to set up a public building counter? Under no other circumstances will deception have the right to impose gas stations on humans. This is totally unacceptable and is unfair to the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u13	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u14	First of all, you, Mrs. Vojtsiecki, know very well that I am in Parliament representing one of the left or left centrifuge forces in our country. And I want to officially state that for the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist Party, the parties that joined our bloc, there are no bigger oligarchs or smaller oligarchs. We stand for the complete deligarchisation of Ukrainian politics, we stand for the total demonization and deligarchization of the Ukrainian economy. And I assure you that we stand firm in the position that the oligarchy as such needs to be cleaned up at the standard of the Constitution and forbid one-size-sized owners from actually holding entire sectors of the economy in their hands! We stand on this and stand. And I have absolutely no doubt that there will be a powerful left faction in the next Parliament. In fact, the next Parliament will have a real lawyer for ordinary people who will defend the positions and interests of ordinary people in each, without exception, bill. Norm, what.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u15	Thank you. You can sit down. We're moving on to the report. I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security of the People's Deputy Alexander Dombrovski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, have come to our committee for a long time with numerous complaints from Ukrainian citizens regarding the installation of counters in multistory buildings that have a direct bearing on collective consumption. This situation was due to the fact that the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act does not define which counters should be set for individual or public buildings. Using such legal uncertainty, natural gas operators in the respective areas began to place gas counters in large - scale apartment buildings. Four drafts were prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies. I want to emphasize four bills, namely: 5722 (authors: Babak, Podlisecki), 6277 (author – Kaplin who just reported), 6277-1 (authors: Batenko and other national deputies), 6306 (author – Melnik). Our committee at its meeting on June 21, 2017, discussed all four of these bills. As a result of the discussion, members of the committee entrusted the gas subcommittee with the preparation of a generalized bill, which takes into account all the comments made by the national deputies to the bills under consideration under headings 5722, 6277, 6277-1, 6306, based on the basic provisions of Bill 5722. The subcommittee prepared a revised bill, which makes it more clear that a public - building gas counter can only be installed with the consent of co-owners of a multi-story building. It is envisaged that individual gas counters can be installed on their own by consumers with further compensation for such costs at the expense of the natural gas operator of gas distribution networks. There is a ban on gas distributors for shutting down gas supplies to a multi-floor building if the owners of such a building do not agree to install a public gas counter. The deadline for setting individual gas counters is changing from 1 January 2018 to 1 January 2021. It is noted that natural gas operators in the area concerned are obliged to ensure that individual gas counters are installed, not public buildings. There is a mechanism for setting up individual gas counters for low-income citizens who receive subsidies and other social benefits regardless of their presence as a public building counter. Our committee, at its meeting on 6 December 2017, reviewed the revised draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas and decided that the majority of the laws (registrations 5722, 6277, 6277-1 and 6306) had been taken into account. The amended bill is registered under number 5722d. That's why. But on the basis of articles 93 and 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and articles 12, 15 and 16 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided to bring it up to date and to recommend the results of the first reading of the adoption of Bill 5722. I would like to ask the committee to support this decision, not to support the bill that just came out, because its key standards are included in Bill 5722-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Stay where you are. Please sign up for the interview. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u18	Please give my word to my colleague at the People's Front, Yuri Berezi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u19	Please, Yuri Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u20	Well, first of all, I'd like to say about the first law, it has nothing to do with the slogans of revolutionary Caplin, and that's why I don't want to talk about this law at all. And now I would like to ask you to replace and add paragraph 3.2: "Consumers of the population can self-sustain natural gas accounting devices (individual counters) in brackets, with further compensation for such costs at the expense of the natural gas of the natural gas operator in the respective territory." I ask you to take this into account, and then we are ready to vote in favour of your law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u21	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u22	I, my fellow Members, would like to point out that we are now considering Bill 6277 of the People's Deputies of Kaplin. I would like to point out once again that at the committee meeting we have considered twice four bills, including the one we are currently considering. The committee decided to adopt Bill 5722 after the 5722-d revision, which we propose to adopt as a basis in which the norm that you just mentioned is taken into account, because I read it literally. If you want to make any adjustments, if we vote 5722-d on the first reading as a basis, between the first and the second readings we will introduce your correction, and then on the second reading we will vote on it. Now, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u23	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Constanceevich Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u24	Please give my word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u25	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u26	Dear fellow MPs, Your Honor Alexander Grigorovich, thank you for your position. I want to point out that we have the vast majority of the halls that have united their efforts in this bill, and the factions have called off this bill, except for one colleague of Mr. Kaplin's. And unfortunately, today there is a pianist of a political power when people freeze in houses when this bill is to be adopted. So I propose to go to the 5722 vote and stop populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u27	Please give an answer. Are you going to answer? I'm asking the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u28	I don't think there was a question here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u29	Thank you. Sit down and ask for one minute for a lineup. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u30	First. I would be in the position of individual national MPs who represent the whole faction, not two national MPs, like me and Alexander Sugonako, who would now be better off defending the interests of those people who have suffered from the fact that this question has not been raised. We've collected half a million signatures, I've traveled over 70 cities in the country to mobilize people and make sure that this is a matter for an alternative bill that we're going to adopt. About whether I'm a revolutionary? Yes, I'm a revolutionary, and I'm going to make sure that, in particular, there's a real revolution in Parliament, so that democratic forces can come here to represent the common people, not the oligarchy. Yes, I'm a revolutionary, and I'm going to make sure that Parliament has rules. Yes, I'm a revolutionary, and I'm going to make sure that the naps go out again in the square and not walk through rat crossings and run away from ordinary people, yes, I'm a revolutionary, and I'm going to make sure that there was order and concern for a simple person in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u31	Thank you. People's deputies would like to prepare for the recording, and please record the factions' discussions. From the faction of Self-Help, National Deputy Victoria Vojcitsicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u32	How long?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u33	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. Now we're really looking at a very important bill that applies to every Ukrainian who uses gas in his life, including for burning the population, including cooking. Today we have a situation where 70 percent of the market is controlled by one oligarus Firtash. And it's this oligarch that's twisting people's hands, and it's using the rules of the existing legislation that requires the establishment of an accounting system by 1 January 2018. What's going on? It is absolutely systematic for people to be monitored by the appropriate and agreed energy regulator of the NCRECR, who is fully controlled by President Dustenk, who is setting up building counters, to be absolutely unacceptable. What's going on? We know that today about 3.5 million households are unfortunately without a accounting system and people are faced with a problem, but where to find the truth, and where to find justice. On the task force in my committee on gas distribution networks, which up until recently, by the way, the state property of Firtas used absolutely free of charge, and the agents of fraud, and the representatives of the energy regulator, they were absolutely insolent about the fact that let the quantifiers be set up or co-financed with the local authorities, but not on our own. But I want to remind you that since 2012, there have been approved standards, investment programs that have foreseen the establishment of an appropriate accounting system. That's why we're calling for support for the bill. At the same time, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is unacceptable to maintain a norm that says that there should be co-financing. No singing of finance! The setting of counters should be done only by means of fraud. If the oats have spent hundreds of dollars, if not billions of dollars that have been pulled out of the Ukrainians' pockets for their own wealth, let them return the money. The energy regulator refuses to conduct an inventory of the relevant investment programs. This should be our joint regulatory requirement with you in Parliament: to conduct a mandatory inventory of all the investment programs and to find out where the money of the Ukrainians, who have paid them in full for the services they have not received all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u35	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Oleg Laska of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Why are monopolies, utility providers, so hard to translate Ukrainian consumers, millions of people who don't have the ability to put counters into their own account, nevertheless, they're trying to do it, or they're putting public-aware counters instead of putting individual ones in each apartment? One reason is because it's easier to steal gas from people they haven't eaten, to cheat on consumers of services they haven't received, and to charge their pockets for unsupplied services. That's why we strongly supported and voted in favour of an appropriate bill to make gas, water, heat counters, any other counters treat each apartment individually, not the house stand, and then, regardless of how much a person consumes, the average of the buildings counts and exhibits the same payments to everyone. It's called "the robbery in broad daylight." We definitely do not support this, and we insist that counters be placed either at the expense of fraud or at the expense of the state budget. This will give you the ability to save gas, and the main thing is that it will allow you to pay less for tariffs, because you will pay only for the utility that you have consumed. Second, the key to lowering tariffs is the country's energy dependency, the reduction in energy efficiency of utilities. Today, we have a completely worn-out community farm. For. With the Soviet authorities, the boiler was placed in the middle of the city, while the battery warmed up in an apartment five kilometers [5 km] of pipes, no one counted the gas, because everything was in the district nothing, everything around was national. Today, when it comes time to count, there must be energy - efficient technologies. Unfortunately, what do we see? In the budget for the following year, more than 70 billion dollars in subsidies are actually preserving poverty and feeding the oil companies that own the heat utility and less than a billion dollars in energy consumption and energy savings. We insist on spending on energy efficiency, energy efficiency, energy efficiency. This calls for a state-wide programme of cataract reconstruction, a thermal route, a government budget exchange, and interest-free loans to replace windows, doors to reduce energy consumption. The state wins, the consumers win. Well, the key is to increase the production of its own gas, its own coal, not Russian coal to buy, not the so-called import gas, but, in fact, Russian gas to buy, but to extract more of its own gas, its own coal. These are jobs for our Ukrainians, these are budget taxes, and the main thing is Ukraine's energy dependency, which means we're going to pay less for the utility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u37	Thank you. From the People's Front, Berez Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u38	Here a leftist from Poltavščina was yelling at me about the social justice that his leftist party is fighting about or something. Is that what it's called a "communist scrape" or what? But I'll tell you about the other one. The important thing in this law is that we do not forget those who have already counted. In fact, half the population today has already set their own counters. Individually. It is important that the law provides for a time when these people will not be left alone in the future — to invest in an energy company, to invest in another company. It may be necessary to foresee mechanisms that will allow for compensation in the future and provide for this compensation at the expense of energy companies. And that's probably going to be social justice. But there are key points. You know, when we're in this room talking about commie slogans, we're listening to this commie Sabbath, it probably doesn't adorn the Supreme Council. Screaming and doing are different things. And so I call, well unfortunately, I don't see the votes for this law right now, it's essential to the Ukrainian State, it's essential to Ukrainian people, it's very necessary to ordinary people. Sadly, there are probably no votes on it today. But I appeal to all the national MPs who are in the towers that are right next to the Supreme Council: please come back! Come back because of what. Well, first of all, it's a holiday today, and we have to do good to the Ukrainian people, but to a mere Ukrainian, who has just voted in favour of this law honestly, openly and with the right view of the future. Not a left-wing view, it's the past, we've already been there. The Communists will not rule Ukraine, and their bastards will rule more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u39	From the "Fatherland" faction, Eutuszek gives the word for Ryabchin's speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u40	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Fellow national MPs, and again with you, the authorities are forcing us to dig up the ruins for their irresponsibility and corruption. Last week we passed a bill and gave the President the right to appoint NCRECRP commissioners. And by creating such a dangerous precedent, by almost destroying the reform of the so-called "independent regulator" quotes, we are now digging for the fakes that have been paid for counters since 2012, because people have paid, and all the consumer categories have paid the same price for natural gas. And the tariff structure for gas services provided this investment component, but no counters were installed. And the question is, why didn't all the consumers get a personal account, and now they're being driven into these gas joints? And it's definitely not the consumer's fault. And the other question is why does the President, instead of destroying the monopolies that he should have promised to do, he's getting them, he's leading them, because it's all at the highest level? Question: I hope the Supreme Council will vote on this bill because it threatens people on New Year's Eve to just get a New Year's without gas. And then yesterday, yesterday, we were in Suma, where my colleagues and I had a production meeting, and we came back today. And we have a decision from the city council in Sumu that was just going to take turns for the session. And the bags say that the representatives of Pat "Sumigaz" publicly stated that since January 1, 18, "Sumigaz" in the event of residents' refusal to set up a public building counter will stop the supply of natural gas to 134 apartment buildings in Suma. It's a thank God the mayor and the deputies gathered, accepted, banned Sumigaz from doing this. But I think that we should do this at the legislative level and continue to set up individual counters, because the philosophy supported by "Paternity," I hope you support, a person has to pay for what he has consumed. Not that she's in there, I don't know if the neighbors there are cooking or cooking alone, like we do very often. And for the fact that they've consumed and the people who are saving them when they're forced to pay such large payments, I think it's indignant to everyone, all of Ukraine's citizens. And where there's power, there's power. The irresponsibility of the authority that you and I are covering up again. We already said when there was a commercial accounting project on heat meters, water. This situation is also not settled there. They also have a public - building counter, two houses, two houses, and a human count. And we agree with those colleagues who say there should be no co-financing mechanism. People have already paid for it, give them their individual counters. And more than that, I don't think we should just cover up this corruption and not let it happen. We have to do an audit of these investment programs to see where these costs were spent? And if the costs were ineffective, the licenses for these gas-supply companies should be cut off.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u41	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u42	And there must come a truly worthy owner who. An effective investor who must fulfill all his obligations to humans. And what will we do next? And then we're going to vote for the same problems that are in the electricity market, in the heat market, we're going to add billions of subsidies. We're not going to invest in energy saving to get people's payments down and to get them a comfortable service. The Fatherland faction supports this law without co-financing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u43	Thank you. And a closing statement from the factions. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" Sugonako. Melnik, Melnik, please, Peter Dust Block. Melnik, the faction decides on its own. The miller.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u44	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Well, first of all, it's a really big request to support Bill 5722. The committee carried out a great deal of work. In fact, this bill takes into account all the basic proposals made by the people’s deputies. For the sake of justice, I would like to point out that the "big hand" attached to this problem is the Ministry of Profiles, not just the monopolies, who defined the date of establishment of commercial accounting. Thus, the preference of the NCRECR began to be given to the program to set up incentive counters. What's the problem? Two programs have been approved today. Most of the scams are done in this way: if about 70 percent of the apartment counters are installed in the house, they install apartments at the expense of the first program. If the opposite is true, they put up a building counter. And the big problem is that there are people left who can't set the counters or those who don't want to. Another problem is that many people actually live in apartments, and they're not prescribed. And then the difference between the building counter and the flat sum lies on the actual people, and people, especially pensioners, bear the brunt of these payments. If people refuse to use an inducer, a double standard is applied. And I can tell you that there are already two such houses in Hmelnicki. So a tremendous amount of tension was created. I'm very much asking you to support an amended bill that practically decides to give the algorithm a solution to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u45	Colleagues, I mean, it's coming from the Rebirth Group, then from the National Deputies, and then from Mr. Dombrowski's closing word. And the author will also have a minute of closing. From the Rebirth faction, Valérie Pisarenko. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u46	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, the problem is urgent, and we see it at the reception of citizens in the city of Kharkiv. Many Harkayians have faced these problems when a counter on the house makes a completely different payment for people who have previously paid normal lower amounts. So I would like to say that we need to support this initiative and finally stop robbing people. But at the same time, we also need to consider with you the question of funding programs related to the installation of apartment counters. We need to support Ukrainian citizens to pay fair tariff prices. Regrettably, people today do not know what they are paying for without setting up apartment counters. So let us also go back to the issue of financing such programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u47	Thank you. So from factions and groups, the performances are over. It's nine minutes away from the National Deputies. I'm asking you to take part in the recording of "representatives from the People's Deputies." Please record, please. Kupray Vitaly Mikolaiovich gives the floor to Batenka Taras. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u48	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! I think that on the eve of New Year's Eve, the Catholic Christmas and our Orthodox Christmas, which is consolidated by all of us, we should adopt this law for the benefit of the people, not for the sake of the populists, because, once again, I want to remind myself that I am also a representative of the political party, the Ukrainian Union of Patriots of UKROP. But we, as a systematic, opposition party, and non-popular, have called off our bill and these bills have been revoked by representatives of other political parties that are in Parliament and we have signed under the only bill that I ask today to put to the vote as a decision, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Fuel and Energy, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, on the basis of and in general, because today there are cases of cutting off consumers who are asking only for water to heat up the gas are getting massive in Ukraine. Question in sums, we were just going to the press center, the bags were coming. Gas cuts have taken on mass order, and people go out, pick up, and cover the streets. We're going to the courts, we're going to win these trials. And the courts give excellent practice, they set up. We'll win the appeal. The courts have determined that the accounting of gas according to the indicators of public building counters is illegal. So, dear fellows, we should clearly prescribe this procedure that the public building gas counter can only be installed with the consent of the co-owners of the apartment buildings. There is a ban on gas distribution operators in this bill on the cessation of gas supply if the owners of such a building do not agree to install it. And the deadline for establishing individual counters is changing, which is the most fundamental in this gas bill from 1 January 2018 to 1 January 2021. So, honourable colleagues, I want you all to be consolidated in this room by party and faction representatives, MPs and just major MPs, who will then go back to their districts and look people in the eye, give people a chance to hope for warmth, to have individual counters. Take away this right of trump and impudence in our gas monopolies and support Bill 5722d as a committee on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u49	Now six minutes is given to the national deputy of Halasyuk, who is given the word of his fellow fisherman and Kirichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u50	Dear Mrs. Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Reducing municipal tariffs and not allowing them to rise is one of the main tasks of public policy today. Because what's the point of raising social standards when prices go up faster than citizens' incomes. This is definitely unacceptable. Today, it is the root of the problem of high tariffs that needs to be addressed, not just the slapping of tails. To do this, it is not what is budgeted today: 70 billion dollars in subsidies and less than a billion dollars in energy-generating money. It's totally unacceptable. This preserves the existing situation. Dear colleagues, see what 70 billion subsidies are? On the one hand, it's the dependency of citizens on the state. But people work, they earn, they have to get a decent salary and income, not sit on some government subsidy like it's a tax. That's not right. This is morally and psychologically wrong, let alone economic. The economic dimension is the translation of pockets from the state budget of Ukraine, these are our taxes with you, in the pocket of the oligarchs. Why? Because these subsidies, they don't reduce their energy consumption, they don't introduce new technologies, they just redistribute our funds to you for raw olive oil, it's completely wrong and it's impossible to lower tariffs. In order to lower tariffs, it is necessary to anticipate large-scale costs, including in the state energy supply budget. Oleg Lášk and I, together with a team of thinkers, have introduced a bill that foresees that at least 10 percent of the amount that goes on the grant should be directed towards energy-generating the country. And so in three, five years, we will be able to overcome the yoke in which all Ukrainian citizens today have come to be, and this will actually allow the municipal tariffs to be substantially reduced. Moreover, mention the legislation on energy service contracts that we have proposed since 2014, which Parliament adopted in 2015. We are very grateful to all the factions and groups that have supported the legislation on energy engineering, which is proposed by the Radical Party team, it allows 85,000 budgetary institutions, schools, hospitals, kindergartens, universities to drown walls there, change windows, change doors, change boilers, reduce energy consumption by 30, and sometimes 40 percent per year. This allows on a scale of the country to save a billion cubic meters of gas a year, not to buy it abroad for dollars, for a euro, not to overpay for it, it allows our children to be warm with you, to be safe, and there will be a direct economy, and local budgets, and a government budget. Moreover, no amount of budget investment is needed to implement this program, since it is entirely about private investment. And recently, Dergenerge efficiencies reported on the parliamentary round table that we organized, this program has already started to work, the first hundred contracts signed all over Ukraine, next year will be a major development. It's creating a new market, a new demand for machinery, it's creating tens of thousands of new jobs. So we have energy dependency, new jobs for Ukrainians, and incentives for industrial development. This is what needs to be done, in parallel with this, to increase the production of our energy resources of Ukrainian gas and coal, not to import it abroad. Last year, Ukraine, with its coal and gas, imported almost $4 billion from abroad. Think about it, for almost four billion U.S. dollars, we've supported the manufacturing industry of other countries, it's all completely wrong. That's why we've proposed, and we're very grateful for the support of Parliament, that we have 12 percent and 6 percent of the incentives for gas production, starting on January 1st next year, that policy needs to be pursued. What's more, my dear colleagues, I want to show you a very important slide in order to explain why this policy is in principle correct. Please show me a slide of why it is extremely important to adopt the law as quickly as possible in the whole "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians". Please look at the screen when we pay from the Ukrainian budget, and as Margaret Thatcher said, "There are no budget costs, there are taxpayers' costs." When you and I pay the bracelet for imported products, the budget goes back to zero in direct taxes from a foreign producer when we pay to a Ukrainian producer, then on the first round, the tax returns seven copies of direct taxes: income tax, personal income, land, and so on. What's more, the Ukrainian machinery company pays eight copies of the dollar's salary to Ukrainians, that means creating jobs, that means paying demand, that demand from households forms 70 percent of the country's economy. So look, only at the first step is 15 copies of the bracelet going back to the Ukrainian economy, working for its development. When we buy foreign products, zero taxes will get our budget. Moreover, the International Monetary Fund should go and go to other creditors and pay an average of 4 percent of the annual average interest on Ukraine’s monetary loans. That is, after paying the bracelet for the imported product four more copies a year to pay for it. Therefore, "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians" is not just the law, it is the ideology of Ukraine's economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I have to make a note of you now speaking as chairman of the session. The absolutely fair have come to the attention of fellow MPs that the second time we've discussed completely other bills, there are slides that don't apply to the bills that we're discussing. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you not to interrupt me! The Buy Ukrainian Act is going to be discussed with slides and stuff. And now we're talking about a completely different bill. And so I ask and warn your distinguished colleague Halasyuk that once again you show a slide on "buy Ukrainian" during the discussion of other laws, we will interrupt, unfortunately, the discussion. Thank you. And I thank you for your observation, it's fair. Colleagues, we have such a conflict here that the bill that we are currently discussing has been drafted in the same way, and taking into account position 57. 6722 is the bill of the national deputy Babak Olena, and she demands a word now that she has not been given the opportunity to present her bill, which is equally appropriate. Two minutes, then Sugonjako, mentioned, two minutes, and we're already summed it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u52	Thank you so much for the opportunity. The point is that the members of the Self-Help Unit, Leo Podlisecki and I, were the authors of the law on which the law was elaborated today in the Hall – 5722 was the law of which I am the author. The situation is that today we absolutely ask the hall to support Law 5722-d, but not vote it in general. Why? Because today there is a reference to the mechanisms for co-financing in this law. It is not noted that this order is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, it is not stated that these may be separate tariffs for consumers who already have counters and who should not pay, for example, for the provision or distribution of gas, given that the gas company will also co-finance the installation of counters, and there are people who have set up such gas counters. So, honourable colleagues, completely supporting the idea, as I said, we thank you that the committee today put this bill into the hall, which is its time. Who was waiting for his release. Please. all mobilize and support the base. But for the second reading, it is absolutely necessary to make a politically balanced decision and economically, and to make changes to this law, taking into account what are the consumers who have already set the counters into account, and there are those who still need to set these counters. So, honourable colleagues, thank you to the committee for your work, but please support the law only in the first reading and for the second to prepare it more thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u53	Please, Mr. Sugonako, we invite you to your word. And then Dombrovsky and Kaplin are closing words. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's a co-author.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u54	Sugonako Alexander, 158th District of the Sustina, Social Democratic Party. Dear friends, recently two weeks ago, this is my answer right because they mentioned political power, I was at a social-democracy gathering in Lisbon, Portugal. And, by the way, you are. I want to remind you that in the European Parliament where we're going, the Social-Democratic faction is the second largest. And those countries are the most developed, where they are in the power of social-democratic parties -- Norway, Sweden, Finland. There are no radical parties, that is. But that's not what I'm saying, I really think we should leave political emotion, we should really say essentially. And as always, last week I traveled all over my district, villages, dozens of villages, cities, and not only my own, the sumstina. And really the question of gas meters, the question of gas accounting -- that's what's most concerned about thousands of people, that's what's driving them, that's what's causing them to protest. And setting up individual counters is a matter of the present, it's the most important question that really needs to be solved, putting off really emotions and different political views. So there is a request to support the bill, as proposed by Sergey Nikolaevich Kaplin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u55	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. Now, the final two speeches, then we go to the vote. That's why I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. First the author is Sergey Kaplin, two minutes. Three minutes, Kaplin and then Dombrowski, the closing statement, and we move on to a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u56	I'd like to turn to the Ukrainian National Deputies right now. I'd like to look at tens of millions of our fellow citizens who, in anticipation of justice in this room, may for the first time in recent years expect everyone here to vote for what the people require for e, which requires a simple, ordinary, average citizen. And he demands justice. He doesn't want to pay twice, he doesn't want to pay three times, he doesn't want to pay for a rich person who lives next door. He doesn't want to pay the oligarchs again. He does not want to finance prooligarchy factions in this way in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He finally wants to become a master again in his country. Now, based on the motives of my dear colleagues. It's about a commie. In the European Parliament, Europeans, Social Democrats and Greens come together. You're wrong, Mr. Sugonako, not the second-largest faction, first by the number of factions. Europe in the hands of the left, the left centerists. That's why countries like Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Britain gives. Labourers who protect the rights of workers. Best of luck in the first place. That's why there are socialists, European Socialists and Social Democrats the highest pension, the highest wages, the highest social standards. That's why there's order, peace and incredible professionalism in the Supreme Council, in government and in the administrations of the President. And we will do our best. How Can I Reach Out? Only with people. If there was a bill on this very important matter, it would be a very important question if it weren't for the destruction of people, if it wasn't for the millions who came out to protest to defend their right not to pay for oligarchs. No, it wasn't. And people did it, we collected hundreds of thousands of signatures, we held meetings in hundreds of houses, in hundreds of courtyards all over the country. And we have achieved that today we are discussing this important national issue. Finally, my dear colleague Dombrowski here said that we were once leaders in gas exports even to Europe, Russia. That was in the '70s. And the question is, why? But because the owners of the gas fields were the people, the state. And we have to make it back to that status quo tomorrow. You'll go to the county, people will ask you if you voted in favour of this law? I'll do my best to thank each and every one of you for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u57	The closing statement of Dombrovsky's committee chairman, Alexander Georgievic. How much? Please, one minute. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. In a minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process. I ask the heads of factions to maximize the number of special forces. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u58	Dear national MPs, dear friends, I would like without political emotion and, therefore, without political decorations, but to say the least. I think that this discussion speaks of one very important thing, that a Ukrainian citizen in various situations, including tariff issues, including energy security issues, is very poorly protected today. And today, when we discuss this subject and when we vote in favour of the bill very much and very much, we take just one or the first step. This suggests that Parliament should turn much more time to the problems of ordinary Ukrainians and protect them. And not to take political slogans and speak, not political slogans, but demagogic and populist statements, but concrete steps and specific bills. And this bill, by the way, I'm a witness to it. Because it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u59	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u60	There were four bills, four initiatives. And the committee did all four. Sadly, only three of them were united. One bill went, as once said, its own way. So I'm calling on behalf of the committee, and I'm asking 7522 to take the basis for the first reading. We're going to work on it, we're going to take all the wishes into account, and we're going to put it into the voting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u61	Thank you, colleagues. We finished the discussion. I ask you now, once again, my fellow officers, to enter the hall. So we don't have any humiliation with a return to the vote. I'm only going to base factions, colleagues, on a basis, as recommended, both by Peter Prashenko's Block and Self-Help. But in order for us to get a positive vote, we need to invite everyone into the hall and prepare for the vote. Shall we go to the vote? So I'm voting on a bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act (for banning the installation of public building counters to consumers of natural gas) as proposed by the Committee, number 5722-d on a basis. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Based on the base. Be careful, every vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. Please be supportive. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:15:04]] For 210 We didn't make it. I'll be back. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I ask you to invite my fellow national deputies into the hall. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the Hall, as well as the secretariat of the Supreme Council. Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. So, can we vote? I'd like everyone to come into the hall. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for bill six. 5722-d. Please support the proposal to return to the vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice, careful. Please vote carefully. Vote. Please support the return. Please be supportive. [[17:16:47]] For 216 I saw you press the wrong button. I'll put it again, colleagues. I've seen it. We've got a few sectors where we've got hold of it, and it's obviously people who haven't been able to figure it out. And in the People's Front sector, and in the BP sector, they were "held." I ask you to vote carefully. I'll do it again, but I'm asking you to take your seats and I'm asking you to vote. And I'd like you to invite the deputies to the hall, who are the coulaires. Please come into the hall. Please be careful when voting. Come on in, colleagues. Why don't you come in and invite someone who's not in the hall? Please come in. I'm asking you to include the factions so the factions can see who you can and should invite. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 56, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 13, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 5 and Rebirth – 5. So please mobilize yourself and, I stress, vote carefully. You're ready, aren't you? Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 5722. Please vote and please support. Careful! Every voice. We're voting carefully, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:18:41]] For 221 221. For the last time, colleagues, there are five votes missing. Colleagues, I've put in three drafts. Now I'm asking all those who have been on fire to call their colleagues who aren't here and invite us to the hall, we're short five votes to make a decision. No, we're not doing it. As soon as the show starts, the man will come out of the hall 10-15 as a minimum. I'm asking you to come to the MPs' room. Please take up your jobs. So, carefully, take up your jobs and place your ballot cards so that your vote will be taken into account. My colleagues, do they all have them? Is everyone ready to vote? Please, people's deputies, come on in. I ask you to enter the hall, especially the heads of the factions. You're ready, aren't you? So I ask everyone to mobilize, be careful about voting, take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law 5722 on the prohibition of the establishment of public building counters for natural gas consumers. Please vote, and please support me, colleagues, carefully every voice. Please vote, please support. We're voting very carefully, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:20:50]] For 219 219. There are no votes, colleagues. I'm going to make the following suggestion: a committee for re-reading. Will such an offer be supported? Colleagues, I'm making the next proposal that the Rules provide. So please mobilize, the next proposal that the Rules provide is draft Law 5722-d to send to the Committee for re-reading. Please vote, and please support. Please vote. Please be careful when voting. Please be supportive. [[17:21:48]] For 210 210. This, colleagues, I will make another proposal, which is foreseen by the Rules. Now I see MPs coming out of the hall. Those who agitate me would rather stand on the door and not release MPs. So I'm now making the following proposal: to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. I ask you to mobilize, and I propose that the draft Law 5722 (deputy) return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:22:44]] For 219 219. Colleagues, pay attention! Come into the hall, please. I went through all the regulatory procedures, all the suggestions that were provided, I went through them, and there was a vote on them. At the request of the factions now I will once again propose to return to this law, this will be the final vote, if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So now I'm giving 30 seconds to the faction heads to invite MPs into the hall, I'm going to put the bill back on the table, if there's no votes, it's going to be rejected. I'm asking you to come into the hall right now and take your jobs. Well, people's deputies just came out. Ready to vote? Ready, everybody in position? I'll put it back on, if we go back, I'll lay the groundwork if we go back and if there's voices in the room. So I'm going to make the final offer, go back for the vote of draft law 6277, go back to voting on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice carefully, we vote, please support. [[17:24:32]] For 219 I'm sorry, I said 5722-d. Which one? Colleagues, attention, attention, misunderstandings. So I put 5722-d to the vote as a basis. Now I'm going to go back to him, and I'm going to put him back on the line. You got it, right? So, colleagues, mobilize. Didn't realize I was voting, now they're oriented. Please take up jobs. I emphasize, I'm now making an offer, going back to 5722-d, the one recommending the committee. And I ask you to vote in favour of returning to his consideration. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, and every voice matters, please vote very carefully, please support. We vote for the return, please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:25:47]] For 228 We're back, colleagues. Now, colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm underlining. I emphasize, there is a warning in the room that there is a non-personal vote, I ask you not to allow non-personal voting. I would like to stress that the law will now be passed if there is a permanent vote, I'll cancel the vote. Understand? Yes. So I'm voting on a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act, number 5722-d. On the basis of that, on the basis of the vote, please support. Vote, please. Please vote, please support each vote, we vote carefully. [[17:27:01]] For 225 Okay, colleagues, this is a critical moment, one vote. Mustafa Najem, says he didn't have a card. Andrew Antonisztak, stresses that the card didn't work, and I'm going to put it back, colleagues, in case of exceptional circumstances. But it's starting to look very bad, colleagues, in front of the Ukrainian community, and to a large extent, it's a lack of discipline. I'm asking you to come in, take jobs. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please, everyone, come into the hall, get ready. I'm going to make the first proposal, to go back to the 5722-d draft. Please vote for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. We vote carefully, each voice matters. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:28:20]] For 221 Draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll take one last bet, colleagues. That's what I'm saying. You'd be adamant instead of me, you'd be adamant about your colleagues being in the hall. Now, look, there are political consultations during the vote. Please take up jobs. Go to your colleagues at the faction and take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm making a proposal: draft Law 5722, go back to its consideration. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:29:27]] For 217 Draft Law 5722 (Deputy) was rejected. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, colleagues! We were asked to include Bill 7403 in the agenda. I'm asking everyone to stay put. I'm asking everyone to stay put! And there was also a request from Barney that we come back and try to reintroduce day 7410. Now I'm putting them to the vote in the agenda of the day session. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. So the first is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (7410). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Please vote. Please support 7410. [[17:30:40]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Next, 7403 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of tax-added value-added transactions from exports outside the customs territory of Ukraine of oil crops. This is the question with which there was a speech from the rostrum during the break of the two factions, their request is that we put it in the order of the day session, just put it in the order of the day session. Who supports the inclusion of the day session in the order of 7403, please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[17:31:34]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I have a request for you. We have two laws that give us a bill that has long stood up for the Committee on Youth and Sports, and arrived at the minister's hall. And I have a great request for you to unite and move and to consider it now, because this bill, which unites all the factions that are in the hall. This is the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports (6120). We have the ability to conclude today in a law that unites all factions. And that's why I'm addressing all the factions of Parliament. This bill is in order of the day, it is due to two bills. My request is that we vote and move it to the debate now, and we can now consider it. We'll be able to look at it in six hours. Is there a general agreement of factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u62	Peter Dust Block, do you copy? People's Front, do we? Radicals, Fatherland, Self-Help, Opposition Block. Will you support the Opposition Block? "Rebirth," do you support? "The will of the people," do you support? Let us, fellow workers, today’s day is not simple but productive, and we will end up with a united vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs and go into the hall. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Don't leave the hall, please. Mrs. Oksana, don't leave the hall. Don't leave the hall, please! Take up jobs. Ten seconds and a vote. Take up your jobs, colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal that we now go to the vote for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports (6120). Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support. All factions, all political groups, please vote. Please support me. Vote. [[17:33:57]] For 199 199. Colleagues, this is a bill that supports the entire room. Guys, I'll put it back on. Guys, I'll put it back on. Not all of them were orientated, colleagues. I want to stress again, this bill (please show by factions) is supported by all the factions that are in the room right now. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now. Heads of factions, invite MPs. We have a chance to talk to him and make a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote, and I will once again make a proposal that unites the entire Supreme Council Hall. The proposal is that we consider the bill, which is after two, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports now as the final bill of order of the day. I ask you, colleagues, to vote and please support the consideration of this bill now. Everyone has a say in the vote, so I ask them to take their seats and vote. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:37:02]] For 203 There are no votes to consider the bill, Mr. Igor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again. Colleagues, there's a warning that when we voted in the agenda of the 7410 session, they weren't oriented in the essence of the bill. Stay where you are. Now I'm going to give Barney one minute to explain and the factions are saying they're supporting. One minute, Barna. Please, Barna, one minute. I'll give all the factions a minute. Please, Barna, one minute. I'll let all the factions exchange their minds in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u63	Praise be to Jesus Christ. Dear colleagues, we are representatives of the Ukrainian people. Crowds, villages created by communities have received public funds for infrastructure development, subsidies from the state budget. It turned out to be a new policy of a state where some councils were unable to navigate. The production of tender procedures takes a long time. There are some inadequacies in regulatory acts of an order. It is therefore necessary to make immediate use of these funds, but since regional development funds are not transferred in the following year, the situation is that communities are throwing them anywhere and anything. Allow communities to transfer money to the development of community infrastructure for the next year for their rational use with the greatest possible benefit for people, for communities, for road construction. Thank you. Vote 7410.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u64	Colleagues, I'm going to re-arrange 7410, then I'm going to have the factions perform. So, colleagues, now I'm putting the inclusion in the agenda of session 7410, and then we're exchanging thoughts. So I'm re-voting the day-to-day session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017 (7410). It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote, please support, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session. [[17:40:00]] For 213 No votes. One more time, one more time. Colleagues, I'm re-inclusioning in the agenda of the 7410 day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:40:33]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, you co-workers, bring your deputies into the hall, and don't agitate me to put me to the vote again. It's a deal, isn't it? Let all the factions be in the hall, sitting in the hall, voting, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. The chairman of the Youth Committee held additional consultations and believes that we will now be able to support the Youth and Sports Bill. Now, once again, I'm going to propose that we move on to young people and sports. And I'm asking you to take your jobs and get ready for the vote. The committee's chairman is Arthur the Chamber, ready? So the committee head is convinced that he was able to engage in discussions with factions and factions in support of the proposal. So I'm going to make another proposal so that we can now go to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports 6120. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:42:09]] For 212 Let's exchange our thoughts for a minute from all the factions. Please, Eutusek, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u65	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I will also urge you to support this bill. What is the point of a successful bill? The point is that we need to determine the range of firearms, the range of weapons that can be used, the location of the race. Today, many organizations such as the Ukrainian Defence Association have no opportunity, since the Ministry of Defense has sealed all the tracks, has no opportunity to conduct either education or competition. I very much ask you to concentrate, because, at least 5,000 small-caliber rifles have no ability to work properly, so to speak, to raise our Olympic champions, which, for example, is in Chernig's shooting club, Mrs. Helena. So I urge you to support this bill, not just as a basis, but as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u66	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Silantiev, please, 1 minute. Then Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u67	Dennis Silantev, faction of the Radical Party of Laszka. Dear colleagues, the law is purely technical, because in the Police Act, when they did the Police Act, these rules simply did not translate into a new law. And today, there's a very big problem with the preparations for the Winter Olympics, because athletes and their trainers have spent a lot of years getting ready to present our nation in a decent way at the very great sporting west of the planet. And today, their preparation is under construction, because they cannot move around the country, not abroad, to prepare for congregation and competition. So I'm asking for your support, because we're very proud of our athletes for words and actions, and when we need to do something concrete, we're looking for reasons not to. Dear colleagues, we will support our athletes and our state at a global level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u68	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Arthur Palace, one minute. Oh, I'm sorry, then Storm. Mr. Igor, after the Palace. Turn on the palatna microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, I want to support Dennis Silantiev, we've talked a lot about this bill today, there's no contradiction, if there's any need to make any changes that don't conflict with the basic document, please put it down, let's vote for it. Two months from now, our athletes must be represented at the Winter Olympics and we must support them. What we are. Sportspeople are the position of our state in the world, they're real patriots, they're real patriots, because when they're speaking out and when they win, they're going to rise up and the Ukrainian anthem is going up. I'm asking you to support me, not play politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u70	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone from the Opposition Block. And then Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u71	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, it's about sporting weapons. Not so simple, on the Olympics, which will be very fast, there will be only one bitlon. So let's write what this is about purely bitlon. We already have a lot of examples when, in general good works, under general forms of sports or other ideas, abuse later begins. So if you want to solve that question, localize it on the bitlon. By the way, this biathlon has absolutely no support, it brings glory to Ukraine today, and no one shows or tells about it. That's one thing. And the others. As of today, all the issues relating to the social protection of the State's interests have been voted by the Opposition Block, and without our votes, no question would have passed. But since most of the hall is run by the coalition, it's a humiliation of the institution of the Supreme Council Presidency. You can't vote 20 times for the same bill. That means either you vote, or you sign in your inability, and this council has to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u72	Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko, one minute. And Mr. Secretary, I'll give you a minute to speak too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, we really need to support the laws related to the development of physical culture and sports. And I would like to immediately suggest that when we have the next plenary week to even devote this day, because there are a lot of laws about physical culture and sports that unfortunately do not reach the session hall, because they are very important in other areas that are more interesting to the people's deputies. So maybe right now we could also make that decision. With regard to this bill, we can support it as a basis, and I want to say immediately that the Scientific and Expert Office has asked us to point out that it cannot enter into force at the same time, and we need to give at least three months to prepare a legal basis under this bill if it is approved. So we support, but we're changing the structure of the document itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u74	My colleagues, I'd like to remind you that the committee only offers as a basis. But the committee is asking us to accept it more quickly. So I'm asking the hall to take a look at it today, and we're fully capable of doing it. And now I'm asking Minister Zhadanov one more minute, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and in a minute, I'm going to suggest that I go over this again. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Please, Igor Zhdanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, I would like to address every faction, the Peter Prashenko faction, the People's Front faction, the Fatherland faction, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka, the Opposition Block, the Rebirth Group and the Will of the People, to Self-Help. There are no factions and no political forces, there are Ukrainian athletes who stand up for and choose the country's honor, and let's help them, let's help the biothlonic assembly, not just the biothlonic, because there's a bullet that also brings medals. And now there are very big problems with transportation, especially through the borders of this sport weapon, when it's done manually, help our athletes, I beg you, and they will repay you today, tomorrow at the Olympic Games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-19-m1.u76	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm going to put this proposal back on the vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your seats, please invite the deputies into the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal that we move and move on to the draft Law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on clarifying certain provisions (No. 6120) is being proposed today only as a basis. I ask you to support and I ask you to vote in favour of transferring this bill to the debate now. Please support, please vote, please support. [[17:50:41]] For 209 Colleagues, because of our irresponsibility, we were unable to adopt this bill today. I'll probably offer it to you, Mr. Igor, and I'll offer it on Thursday, maybe so we can go over to him. Now, unfortunately, there are five minutes left before the end of the day, we can't go in and consider any drafts. And that's why I'm calling the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed and asking everyone to come tomorrow at 10 o'clock to continue our work. Thank you all. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our meeting. Good-bye.
