ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking you to come into the hall. Prepare to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u2	Are you ready for your registration? No, it's not. Let's wait, let's wait. So please ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to register. I'd like you to sign up, please. [[10:05:21]] There are 348 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vilekul Alexander Yuriovich. And, colleagues, on Wednesday, I want to remind you, according to Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes of speeches by national MPs, not by factions, by groups, but only by national MPs. And I'm asking you to prepare for the recording for the performance. And I'd like you to sign up for the performance. Please. Alexander Volodymyr. Yvchenko. Please, Ivchenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u3	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, Fatherland wants to draw attention to two things. First of all, it is the so-called land reform, the so-called land affair offered to Ukrainians today. It is clear to all of us who will be the seller of this land. These are the people who get 67 percent subsidies; these are the people who make barely enough money for their lives; these are the people who want to sell their pie. Who will be the buyer? According to the bill and according to the proposals, the country's monetary valuation is about 55,000 in Ukraine. 11 million is going to be 200 hectares. It is clear who will be the buyer of this land. "Paternity" offered to those who wanted to sell their pie, a bill where they could sell directly to the state that would pass it on to the local community, which would then hand it over to the farmer to create jobs. But believe me, this affair today does not strike at the fate of one Ukrainian, a peasant, it beats our country’s future, for it is from the land that people have to get a job, and from selling their surplus produce they have to get a decent salary. We developed as Fatherland directly into the transformation of the agrarian complex. You and I, as the Supreme Council, have passed the Law on Promoting the Development of Family Farms. Where's the budget? Show me who's getting the grant today. Please show me how many grants are going and how much is going on a small farmer. 65 million out of 5.5 billion are given to small farmers. Of these, 40 million were spent by Timoshenko in 2009. 140 million she has spent on farm development, and today 40 are in this budget only 25 million. Is it that we have a policy for a small family farmer? Tell me, who knows about the plague today? This year it has appeared in domestic animals. I don't think this affair is in the best interest of the future today. "Paternality" proposed a call to the people of Ukraine, and we announced a referendum that had been successfully blocked by the authorities through judicial decisions. Today we are trying to have a dialogue with society so that they can finally tell us how they want to manage their land. But the authorities blocked it, we moved on, we're collecting signatures today, people come to us every day, 250,000 signatures all over Ukraine. Today this figure has reached 500. We ask everyone to come and sign, to protect each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u4	Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u5	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Honorable MPs, Your Honor! I want to devote my presentation to the problems of the road sector in Ukraine and to the status of our roads. We passed the Road Fund Act in this room, which comes into force on January 1st, 18th. I'm sure we've made the right decision, and since the 18th, we're going to have a great opportunity to make a breakthrough in the road industry within 4-5 years, to make quality repairs to the roads of state, local, and public roads. Unfortunately, there are huge imbalances in road repairs. In particular, to my family's Suma road M-07, which runs through the Trails from Kiev and Romney to Suma, is in a terrible state. And now I am speaking not only of myself but of all the members of the Assembly who have repeatedly called on the government to allocate funds for the repair of this particular road, which links the capital of Ukraine to almost a million people. Once again, from this rostrum, I want to urge the government to do it and allocate this money. You know, we've decided that half the money that comes from redecorating the work of regional customs is going to repair the roads. And this year it's going to be a colossal sum, a few billion dollars. However, these costs go only on the roads of national and local importance. Today, the Budget Committee will consider Law 6308, where the authors are representatives of all factions, these are changes to the Budget Code, which allows money from redefinitioning the work of regional customs not only on public and local roads, but also on public roads, i.e. on roads that are located within cities, and at which the State is not actually spending the money at present, but on these costs. This responsibility lies solely with the local communities. And that agricultural transport that transports grain that transports ore along roads in Ukraine within large cities actually spoils roads, and the state cannot spend a penny on these roads. Today, obviously, this bill will be approved by the budget committee, and I call on the leaders of the parliamentary factions, the speaker at the next plenary meeting, to pass this bill so that the state funds go not only to public roads, but also to roads in local communities so that we don't have imbalances in the development of our territories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u6	Thank you. Halasuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u7	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The need for pension reform in Ukraine has already matured. We have 12 million pensioners and only 10 million people who work and pay personal income taxes and fill the pension fund because of a single social contribution. Pensions are so scarce that they are impossible to live on. Millions of Ukrainians receive only $1,300 a month’s pension, and nearly half a million Ukrainians, people with disabilities, women who have retired for a period of time have fewer than a thousand dollars a month. It is absolutely impossible to live in a country at this cost. That's why we're behind the pension reform. But not for the pension reform proposed by the government. Because their reform will lead to a multimillion-dollar reduction in the number of pensioners by raising their retirement and retirement age. The government says they don't touch retirement age. They increase their insurance from 15 to 35 years of age and raise their pension from 60 to 65 years for those who do not have proper insurance. What does that mean? Substantial reduction of pension insurance in Ukraine. Will their proposals increase the retirement fund’s presence? No, it's not. The cost of reducing the number of pensioners in Ukraine will be reduced. Is that what we want? No, no, not again. The Radical Party's faction proposes a fundamentally different approach to pension reform, a solution to pension problems primarily through reduced unemployment and wage increases, through the development of industry and raising the Ukrainian economy, through the introduction of a fair tariff network and the removal of the ceiling, and a single social contribution, through the detinization of the economy and through the directing of part of the rent from natural resources to the payment of pensions in the solidarity system. Ukrainian natural resources are expected to bring money to every citizen living in the country, working in the country, spending his entire life in the country, and he has the right to receive a pension not only on the basis of the contributions he has paid but on the basis of natural resources. So with Oleg Lyashk and the Radical Party faction, with the same minds, we have proposed a comprehensive, bold and systematic anti-crisis economic development plan that will allow the building of a strong and strong economic foundation in Ukraine in order to increase pensions, increase wages without reducing the number of pensioners in Ukraine, which is unfortunately proposed by the government today. Around this must be united by all the pro - Ukrainian forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u8	Thank you. Korczyk Vitaly gives the word to Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u9	Good afternoon! Maxim Burbak, 204th constituency faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk to you about cars with foreign registration on a professional and discussion site today. We see people gathered under Parliament who rightly demand that this issue be settled by valid legislation. But I would like to point out that there are two aspects to this question. First of all, it's a matter of settling the sweeping and billing at the National Police Service Centres of cars that have already been imported by our citizens, but they're on foreign registration. I think the profile committee should finally sort this out and explain to people what to do with this mess? Secondly, what I'd like to say is that the main thing in this consideration is movement safety. I'm a senior member from the western Ukraine of the Chernobyl region, where there are a lot of these cars. So I can tell you that every second traffic accident involved in the question of whether there is a disability or there is a death accident, it's for cars with foreign registration. And it's often thicker when you're looking at third-party damages, it's disability, it's fatalities, there's no owner in Ukraine, there's no insurance for this car, and there's no one to answer. The result is that a man was beaten, a car was taken into the woods, and no owner, and the police are looking. The second question is that this is a bill that I personally registered with my colleague Korczyk, which is a bill back in the last year that envisions a mirroring European standard for paying for our roads. I want to remind you that since June 11, our citizens will be able to move freely in Europe, and they will also use their personal transportation. Thus, as they enter Moldova, Romania, and other European Union countries, they pay for the use of automobiles, or roads. And that's not two or three euros a day, that's a lot more money. Our bill stipulates that cars with foreign registrations entering Ukraine should also pay for the use of roads that we have finally started to do. And I don't want to be manipulated by facts. Two euros a day, seven euros a week, and the more you pay for using Ukraine’s roads, the cheaper it is. So I would like the problem to be discussed on the parliamentary committee and on the field of professional discussion, not fact manipulation. And this problem doesn't have to be kept quiet, and I'm sure that the profile committee will be able to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u10	Thank you. FROLOW MIKOLLA ALEXANDROVICH. Shurk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u11	I want to draw your attention to the great social resonance that triggered our decision yesterday on Bill 5313 on the increase in Ukrainian language in Ukrainian television. That's right, an increase in the part of Ukrainian language in Ukrainian television. It's not about fighting against Russian or any other language, it's about increasing Ukrainian language in Ukrainian television. Yesterday, the President of Ukraine said that such a decision might not have been necessary if owners and directors of radio organizations had listened to the President's request two years ago and turned to the National Council for Television and Radio and their own decisions had led to more Ukrainian language in Ukrainian television. But that did not happen, unfortunately, there are television channels that already work mostly in the Ukrainian language, there are TV channels that have a hundred percent of the Ukrainian language on the air, and there is a lot of respect for the leaders and owners of such channels. Sadly, though, this did not become a commonplace in Ukraine. Thus, the Ukrainian Parliament decided yesterday to increase part of the Ukrainian language on Ukrainian air. Yesterday there was a lot of criticism on both sides. Who said it was an attack on Russian, on other languages of the peoples of Ukraine. Someone said it was a bad decision, let's give a hundred percent of the Ukrainian language. But I think that the Ukrainian Parliament made a fairly balanced decision yesterday, on the one hand, there's going to be a significant increase in the proportion of Ukrainian language on Ukrainian air, but there's still a lot of possibilities for other languages and for Russian. Because we have a lot of Russian on patriotic channels with patriotic content. The law stipulates that speaking in Crimean Tatar as well as in the languages of other indigenous peoples of Ukraine is part of the Ukrainian language on the air. So I want to thank all the people who made that decision yesterday. And I think it was really balanced. And the committee that worked on this bill did everything they could to get the text that came in yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u12	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u13	And I think that the Ukrainian Parliament has once again demonstrated yesterday that it is the Ukrainian Parliament. That's it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u14	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Svetlan Vojciekhovsk. Please, National Deputy Yuri Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u15	Dear fellow citizens, honourable national MPs, I want to turn to you today in support of, firstly, a previous speech by a colleague, and secondly, to analyze and quote everything that happened in early 2014. Russian tanks, Russian weapons just arrived on the Internet. She came under the direction of the Russian Church. And I want to remind you that in March 2014 under Ukrainian technology, the Ukrainian tanks were throwing icons at representatives of the commercial Moscow church. And it was quite vivid on the pro-Russian channels, in Russian. Now we've lost about 10,000 people. Today we have the fourth year of war. And unfortunately, in this room, we still have a reason for discussion, and we're allowing us to discuss the Fifth Column, which has called the occupying forces into our territory, which have done everything we can to get the Crimea diverted. Who did all they could to ensure that Ukrainians would die every day, the mothers who lost their children would cry their eyes out. But I want to remind you of one event, two events of three years ago. 23. On May 22nd of last year, we suffered the greatest losses ourselves -- a battle under Walnovah, when the 51st was shot by so-called Bess, and the 23rd, when the Donbas battalion was shot under Carlivka. I want all of us to stand up now and mention for a minute the heroes who gave their first life in Ukraine. Everybody, please get up. [[A Minute of Silence]] On May 23, 2014, five volunteers of the Donbas Battalion were killed in an unequal battle with separatists under Carlivka. Names of these characters: Archipov Vasil Vasilovic (calling "Did"), Kozlov Mikola Volodymyrovich (calling "Mattviy"), Kovalishin Oleg Jaroslavovich (calling "Rader"), Miroshnichenko Alexei Kostinović (calling "Fedir"), Rybenko Denis Volodymyrovich (called "Riby"). The boys got in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u16	Please, just a minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u17	Myrrhenic Alexia was cut out of her heart, tied to CAMAZ, and dragged 60 kilometers [60 km] along the roads of Donetsk. Are we supposed to forgive this?Oh, my God! Look, their ideology is foreign to our country. Glory to Ukraine! And the everlasting memory of Ukrainian heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u18	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Spiowakovsky. Please, National Deputy Olga the Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, in such difficult times that Ukraine is in during military action, when we lose our fighters, the lives of every human being are priceless. As you know, the Ministry of Health is now working on the so - called health reform. As a result of the establishment of a hospital district decree, which today can be called not hospital districts, but hospital tentacles, there are huge problems in all regions of Ukraine. In order to solve these problems, the Petra Prashenko Block was organized, a round table was initiated with the Health Committee, which was attended by 10 people's deputies and 250 representatives of district councils. Virtually all areas and areas were represented. On this round table, people were talking about the inability to execute the decree, that it would take three hours to get there. And it's impossible to save a person's life with a heart attack and a stroke. The cities where nuclear stations stand were spoken, which today deprive them of the possibility of having a medical component at the nuclear power plant. The cities in which hundreds of thousands of people come to rest were spoken and will not result from such a hospital reform of the medical facility. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health and the three direct appeals of the Health Committee to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Ministry of Health, and the Deputy Minister, have been ignored by the round table. 250 heads of district councils, district councils, doctors from all over Ukraine spent four hours Friday, May 19, from 3 p.m. to half eight, deciding how to get out of this situation, how to save the lives of citizens. No regulations, no sub-laws of orders to be drawn up by the IOM for the functioning of the hospital districts have been made at the moment. No hospital councils have been formed. No plans have been made to restructure institutions within the hospital district. There are no documents on the budgeting of the hospital districts. 250 representatives of the districts demanded that the decree on the establishment of the hospital districts be repealed. That's why I'm asking you to do this. This is an open call to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the failure of the Ministry of Health to ignore the problems of citizens, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the impossibility of delaying the payment of salaries to those people who are working and saving Ukrainian lives today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u20	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! People's Front, 204 constituency. I strongly agree with my colleague Yuri Brezza, who speaks of what we must do to prevent the rematch of the "regions" in our country. And last week, we passed some very important bills. If anyone were not skeptical about this, but the ban on the symbol of Russia's aggression -- the "collorda tape" -- is the Council's historic decision. And some here, those who are sitting on the left, who are dug up and are the fifth column of the Kremlin, definitely against it, definitely against the renaming and decommunization of our villages and towns. They'll do whatever it takes to get the Yanukovich gang back, because that's what they need. They had such a good time. But this is not going to happen: the country has changed. And that's why I think we have to do everything we can to stop the regional rematch in this session hall, in the country, in Kiev. And that's why the People's Front faction calls on all post-issued democratic forces to unite together in order to write a ruling and appeal to the National Security Council regarding the conduct of personal sanctions against the Janukovic environment. I'm sorry our coalition colleagues didn't support this decision last week. But we're going to write it together, we're going to expand it substantially, and we're going to register. How do we stop the regional rematch here, we have to do it in places. I've already had a rematch of the pro-Forthashian faction in my family's Blackies, where Freedom, Self-Help, People's Control, ex-mothers from Fatherland, former regionals, and they're doing everything they can to stop the city's work. Look, there was a town council session yesterday. More than a day's talk was said, and after all, 2.8 million dollars were allocated to pay off the debt for the rainy day for using Blackwater canal water. But this debt is growing. Why not accept a comprehensive program for a year? Because they want to do everything they can to prevent the city from developing so that the city’s head, Alexei Kaspruk, cannot work. So I'm confident that the local self-governance committee should consider today the appeal of Alexia Kaspruk, the Montenegrin City Head, to the Speaker of Parliament, Andria Paruba, with the proposal to set a date for the upcoming elections of the Montenegrin City Council. We need to stop the pro-Fertashov rematch in Chernivts, because what happens in Chernivts could be in all of Ukraine. I address all the heads of factions, ask their committee members today to ask the owner to put the matter in order. And after all, save the Blacks from the sold-out band. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u22	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jehora Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u23	I'd like to tell Parliament and society how it's being lied to in front of all of us. The Anti-Corruption Bureau was investigating the illegal enrichment of Dede. When the Anti-Corruption Office with the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor decided that the case was ready, they went to Attorney General Yuri Lucenka asking him to do his job, signed an application to Parliament for consent to criminal liability. What did the Attorney General do? He took another case, which was also handled by the Anticorruption Office of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, the case of the illegal enrichment of Deputy Lozov. But investigators, detectives, prosecutors felt that this matter needed extra effort, extra action. The Attorney General took the third step. He went to the anti-corruption prosecutor and said, "Listen, I have more material for Deputy Bobov. There are also errors in declarations. It's your lead, it's yours. Can you take this in?" The anti-corruption prosecutor said by law that I can. And then what does Yuri Lucenko do? He writes in Facebook that we and the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office have prepared an application for criminal responsibility of three national deputies: Dedeja, Lozov and Bobov. Everyone understands what this room means. A lot of people have thought about it, and who's next? Everyone understands what this means to people. People say it doesn't look like it's the leaders of corruption, but it's good if the Attorney General and the Anti-Corruption Bureau, along with the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, do such a job, well, we support them. And the finale of this equipment. I wrote on Facebook, Yuri Lucenko doesn't do his job after that. It does not refer to Parliament for criminal responsibility of national deputies, Dádeja and Lozov, but focuses on one national deputy, which was collected by the Ukrainian Security Service along with the Attorney General's Office. Dear colleagues! In the office of Attorney General, we have a high-quality fraud, a political genius who has nothing to do with the right! He is to come to Parliament today. Let us ask him about the Constitutional Court case that gave Yanukovich dictatorial powers. The case of the Ilovia tragedy he promised to investigate last year! I have a big request. Here any national MP can stop this discourtesy. Sign the statement of mistrust to the Attorney General. We will not cover other people's games!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u24	Final speech, Musei Oleg Stepanovich. And, colleagues, then we move on to the agenda. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u25	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people, distinguished national MPs! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalska, Red City, National Control political party. You know, in every person's life, there's always a time to scatter stones and then collect stones. This is especially true of the life of our authority. What do we have today? Last April, the Supreme Council, a coalition, elected most of the new government. And it has been more than a month and a half since the government should have been publicly before all the national deputies as representatives of the people of Ukraine and, accordingly, before all the people of Ukraine, to make a public report from this rostrum. A week ago, a representative of Peter Prashenko's Block, who also spoke from this rostrum as a national deputy on Wednesday, called for, think about, the government they appointed to the public report, to be the day of the government, so that every national deputy would have a regular time to ask the government what they had done this year, how they had made the Ukrainian people happy. And what do we have in return? It's a contract. It turns out that one of the committees, economic policy, has already decided to recognize the government's activities to be known and, somehow, around this room, the Ukrainian people have decided to include this as a government report. I demand that the Head of the Supreme Council, as the person who organizes our meetings, ensure a regulatory and constitutional norm on the report of the annual government and then not just the rulings of the one that is, that let us express trust or mistrust. I think the government would also have to ask if it confirms the legitimacy of this government, and ask if it trusts the current government of Ukraine, and get this so-called immunity again. So I ask for this official appeal to respond to the leadership of the Supreme Council and to ensure that the people's deputies and the people of Ukraine can get to know the government report, because we have a claim to many ministers, and I think they will say their word. And I want to tell my colleague from the People's Front, who in camouflage called for honoring only today's memory of the dead. In fact, you and I, too, and 23 national deputies almost a year ago passed a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we are the author of this decree. It has the number 5228, since 05.10.2016, on honouring the memory of each meeting of all those killed during the Moscow - Ukrainian war. And it would probably be right for you, as a majority and as a coalition, to initiate before.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u26	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u27	The session of the Conciliation Board was initiated to bring this right decision into the agenda and to vote so that we would not honor the memory once a month but would honor it daily. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u28	The time for the national MPs to speak is over. But before we go into the agenda, I want you to know that the Presidency has been called upon to take a break from the two factions of Self-Help and the Radical Party, which they ask to replace by a statement from the rostrum. And, colleagues, in three minutes, we're going to go to the vote on a daily basis. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u29	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! I would like to draw your attention to the difficult life of our Ukrainian peasants. Today's biggest problem for people is the price of milk. After all, the vast majority of rural families live off a cow, the price of milk. Today, peasants from all over the country are telling me that the price of milk of five bracelets fell to 3.80 gallons [3.80 L] of milk. Food prices are rising, drugs are growing, gas is growing, utilities are growing, and the price of milk, the main thing that farmers live on, is falling. 3.80 per liter of milk is cheaper than a gallon of mineral. So we call on the government to regulate milk prices and set a minimum milk price of at least 5 dollars per liter. So that the rural family can feed itself. The second question. It's a farmer's job in the country. The government talks a lot about supporting the village, but it's not really there. Half a billion dollars this year are provided for agricultural subsidies. Billions of dollars are provided for VAT compensation for farmers. And who gets it? It's mostly latifundists, big corporations. No amount of government support to the farmer comes directly to the village. People can't take credit in a bank to buy seeding material, fuel oil, hembrush. They have no support for the cost of expensive loans in commercial banks. Our agricultural machinery: Kharkiv Tractor Plant, Kropivnitski's former "Zirka" (now "Elworthy"), Biloczerkov's machine factory -- even though they received government support? No, it's not. This means that our agricultural machinery is not available to the village. Instead, the authorities want to sell the land. It is said that there will be a paradise, and there will be happiness in the village, and all will bathe like weeds in butter. You're lying! The government wants to turn Ukrainian peasants into thugs. That is why the Radical Party faction has registered changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, and 175 national deputies have signed up for Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian farmers to be the master of Ukrainian land. We demand that these changes be addressed immediately to the Constitution and that the right to rule on the land of the Ukrainian peasant be established forever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u30	So we're moving on to the issues of order of the day. We're traditionally starting with ratification issues. And I'm going to ask you to support the proposal for a simplified procedure so that we can adopt the bills that are scheduled for today. So, colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And the first is the daily draft of the Law on Ratification of Administrative Agreements for the Protection of Information with Limited Access between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (number 0144). And I, my colleagues, am voting on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support and take part in the vote. Can we vote? We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:45:31]] For-136 Please take your seats, I'll put it again. It was Andrew Volodymyrovich who left and the vote was cast. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Ivanchuk! Without you voting is hopelessly simple, I ask you to go back to work, otherwise there is no chance of success. Colleagues, please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 0144 on a reduced procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[10:46:25]] For-154 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Hope Anna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u31	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! On 17 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft of the Law by the Cabinet of Ministers, ratifying the Administrative Agreements on the Protection of Information with Limited Access between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the specified draft law on the basis and as a whole. The purpose of this draft law is to implement the internal procedures of Ukraine, namely, administrative arrangements will ensure an equal partnership between the information exchange process and define detailed procedures for the mutual protection of information with limited access that will be created in the course of cooperation between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. I want to say that for the purposes of these agreements we see that information with limited access will mean all information, materials prepared, created either individually or jointly, or exchange, between the parties subject to access restrictions, regardless of the form of expression, orally, visually, in writing. The provisions of these agreements also apply to all activities related to the exchange of information with limited access between Ukraine and NATO, and are extended to all information by Ukraine with access restrictions, for the use of services, in secret, completely secret and NATO information with relevant ones that are related in the same way. So, colleagues, I would like to urge you to vote and ratify these administrative arrangements today, in accordance with article 4 of the Security Agreement between the Ukrainian Government and NATO since 1995. Please vote, I hope that next is parliamentary control of the security and defence sector, the draft bill that is being prepared, and in this room it will also strengthen our cooperation in the Euro-Atlantic direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u32	Thank you. Deputy Chief of the Security Service Vadim Aleksandrovich is invited to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u33	The President-in-Office of Ukraine, the distinguished national MPs of Ukraine, you will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of Administrative Agreements for the Protection of Information with Limited Access between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization under Registration No. 0144. These administrative arrangements, which were made on 28 September 2017 in Kiev, take effect on the date of receipt by diplomatic channels of the latest written report on the implementation by the parties of the internal procedures necessary for their entry into force. The conclusion of administrative arrangements under article 4 of the Agreement on Security between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization of 13 March 1995 with the aim of implementing detailed procedures and ensuring mutual protection of information with limited access, which will be exchanged between Ukraine and NATO in the course of cooperation, if necessary. The Ukrainian Security Service has drafted a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of Administrative Arrangements, which is in agreement with interested state authorities, and has been concluded by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on its conformity with the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. In view of the above, I would like to support this bill, the adoption of which, as a law, will allow the completion of the internal procedures necessary to take effect under the treaty. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u34	Please record: two in, two in. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. Guys, just one show, one second. This means that in two minutes there will be a vote, and I ask to invite all the deputies to the Hall and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the heads of the factions, to invite all the deputies to the Hall. Mr. Ivan, please. Yeah, he's handing over to Rick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Rick.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u36	The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko clearly supports the bill and urges Parliament to vote in favour of this important ratification. This is about administrative arrangements with our NATO partner on basic principles of restricted information. In particular, it's about defining the Griffith of Secrecy and allowing special information used in cooperation between the Ukrainian side and the North Atlantic Alliance. Also, according to the Ukrainian legislation and NATO standards, the physical protection of classified information, the registration and control of information, the mechanisms for the exchange of information with limited access and the identification of appropriateness are regulated. the responsibility for violating the established rules. This will enhance the effectiveness of our country's cooperation with members of the alliance, contribute to strengthening Ukraine's national security and territorial integrity. That's why the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party is going to vote in favour of this ratification. And personally, for the Environment, I'm not saying the scary word "NATO," I'm saying the North Atlantic Alliance. Please support me. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u37	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, I strongly request that you invite everyone into the hall. An important ratification, and it's important to get a positive vote. Please, I'll wait another 30 seconds, we'll go into the hall, we'll take jobs. Let's go to the vote. Colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of Administrative Agreements on the Protection of Information with Limited Access between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (number 0144) as a basis and as a whole. I'd like everyone to vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Colleagues. Fellows who listen to me, encourage them to take up their seats and take part in the voting of their fellow workers. So on the basis of a total of 0144. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:55:37]] For-200 We'll wait. We'll wait. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm going to put it back, and we're going to accept this ratification, it's important and it's positional. This is the cooperation of the Ukrainian State with the North Atlantic Alliance. Please. With the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. I'll be back. And please invite the deputies to the hall. Please turn on the factions so that we can navigate. Please include the last vote. Block of Peter Poshenko – 78, National Front – 54, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 20, Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 15, Fatherland – 9, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 17. Please invite the deputies to the Chamber. Colleagues, please don't come out of the barn, but come in. Heads of factions I'll ask to invite deputies to the workplace. Colleagues, how do you feel I can bet on my return? Please prepare for the vote, and I propose to return to the vote for the draft Law on Ratification 0144. Colleagues, every voice matters, so I ask you carefully to vote, and I ask you to come back. Please vote in favour of the return of 0144. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:58:08]] For 211 211, there's potential. Please invite me to the hall. I urge the MPs to come into the hall. I would like to remind you that we are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of Administrative Agreements for the Protection of Information with Limited Access between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (No. 0144). An important international agreement, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Can I bet? Please take your jobs, I'll put you back in. People's deputies are coming along. Please take up your jobs immediately. Invite all those who are in the watchtowers, who are engaged in political discussions. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting to go back to the consideration of draft Law 0144 on ratification. And I ask everyone to vote carefully and to participate in the vote. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please take up jobs. I'm putting the vote back to 0144. The MPs have come up, I think the voices will be. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please don't leave the hall. Please support, vote, vote. [[11:01:12]] For 223 Three votes. Someone got it wrong. I see you've got it wrong. I'll do it again, please. Please vote carefully. Please take up your jobs. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal. My colleagues, if you'd like to invite me, I can see that as soon as one of the deputies has left, please come to the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 0144. Careful! Each voice has meaning, take part in the vote. Please vote for the return. Colleagues, please vote! Please vote for the return. Vote! Vote, colleagues, for your return. [[11:02:23]] For 224 I see we haven't made it. We're already making a decision -- two votes -- we're making a decision. Please, colleagues, I'm asking you who's in the aisle, regardless of the faction, it's not a matter of faction. Please ask Sergei. Sergei! Mr. Ivan, please. There are voices. So we're taking up jobs. And I'm asking you to take every job. Please. I can see that the card didn't work. I am voting on the proposal (I saw) to return to the draft Ratification Act (0144). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. We're voting carefully! Then fight. Vote. [[11:03:43]] For 223 I'll do it again, I'll do it again. Take your seats, vote carefully. Please vote carefully. And I'm voting again on the proposal to go back to draft Law 0144. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Vote, colleagues, for your return. Attention! Heads of factions, help organize deputies. We're voting for the return. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:04:40]] For 234 And I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of Administrative Agreements for the Protection of Information with Limited Access between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (0144) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, don't leave. Vote. Vote, colleagues. Don't leave. We barely got the votes. On the basis and in general. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. Every voice matters. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:05:28]] For 231 The law is passed. We move on to the next draft of the agenda, this is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the topic "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy" (6014). I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:06:05]] For-188. Decision taken. And I invite the head of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u38	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I really wanted you to support today's Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy." In the parliamentary hearing recommendations proposed for approval, there are systematic and well-considered proposals by national deputies, central and local executives, representatives of analytical centres, public organizations, who attended parliamentary hearings on December 7, 2016. I want to say that these were the first hearings in 13 years of Parliament devoted to Ukraine's foreign policy. And we have made it clear that the opposition to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the restoration of territorial integrity, the protection and restoration of the rights of Ukrainian citizens affected by the international armed conflict in the temporarily occupied territories, as well as Crimea, Sevastopol, the individual areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, are key priorities and critical tasks of the Ukrainian State as a whole, and Ukrainian diplomacy in particular. I would like to say that we have a few priorities in foreign policy. And I would like to thank all the parliamentarians who are actively joining the various international assemblies. Among these priorities, first of all, is the strengthening of international unity and solidarity with Ukraine. Without the strong support of our partners, it will continue to be difficult to stop external aggression alone. But at the same time, we must remember the lessons of 1917-1921 when Ukraine was left alone with the aggressor. The second is extremely important. This is European Euro-Atlantic integration. We've lost our car, we've got a Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. There will be a ratified association between the EU. But we need to keep working. It may also strengthen the partnership with NATO. Another important point. It's energy security. I think we need to make an effort to block projects like OPAL, the North Stream. It is also very important for us to strengthen the role of cultural diplomacy. It's also very important. Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u39	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u40	It is also extremely important for us to have the proper financial support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since foreign policy needs to increase funding as well as security and defence. And thank you to Parliament, which, in 2016 and to the 2017 budget, has made an effort to increase funding. But one of the most important things for us, too, is and this is in the recommendations of our parliamentary hearings, which is to adopt during the half-year since the introduction of Ukraine's new Law on the Principles of Foreign Policy. And to adopt the new Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service. And especially Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk is the head of the working group. I call on all parliamentarians to join. And in literally two weeks, we will bring to Parliament the new Law on the Service of Diplomacy. I also urge our diplomats to have closer contacts to defend our interests with you. I'd like to thank everyone. In the recommendations, you see, there are specific proposals from the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office. And I think that the success of foreign policy depends on effective internal transformations, because foreign policy is an unquestionable continuation of internal policy. And I wish I could be here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u41	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u42	And I urge you to work more effectively in Parliament to give our diplomats more powerful arguments about Ukraine's further support in this difficult world where there are many turbulences. Thank you for your attention. And I'd like to invite you to a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u43	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Happy Natalia Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u45	Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Obviously, foreign policy today is one key priority, because Ukraine is today de facto at war with the Russian Federation, which solved this aggression three years ago. Sadly, because of this terrible war, we have become the primary subject, and we have become influenced by foreign foreign foreign policy, and we have begun to listen to it. But unfortunately, at the same time, we are not taking full advantage of this possibility. There is no real foreign policy strategy for Ukraine, either in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in the President of Ukraine. Because the real strategy must come first of all from the interests of the state. We have to call war a war. We have to call the occupied territories occupied. We have to demand assurances from all over the world, including through the Budapest Memorandum, and we have a lot to say that the whole world today should view this situation just like the military aggression of the Russian Federation, to view Russia as an aggressor. And first of all, it depends on how Ukraine forms this position. The second question. That's the question that the legislation defines for today's foreign policy priority, that's European integration. Europe’s integration today has, unfortunately, remained only words that are very often used by our leaders and politicians. But in fact, there is no political will to prepare institutions to have legislation and to fulfill their obligations to make Ukraine European. So I very much hope that these recommendations will be the beginning of a strategy that is being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u46	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u47	The implementation of this strategy, which Ukraine chose three years ago, by paying for it with its own blood and by continuing to defend our right to European integration, to a European prosperous country, dying in war, in Russia’s bloody war against Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u48	Thank you. Liszko Oleg gives the floor to Deputy Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u49	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear colleagues, today's Supreme Council has had a successful experience in carrying out its constitutional mandate to determine the principles of foreign policy, which is particularly important in the context of external aggression. Parliament has adopted a decision to recognise Russia as an aggressor state and to recognise the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court over crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by Russia's superior leadership. Our Parliament has recently adopted a call to the U.S. Congress on the practical implementation of security assurances under the Budapest Memorandum by giving Ukraine the status of a major non-NATO ally and the establishment of a bilateral defence agreement between our nations. We have to take the next important step: to adopt recommendations for parliamentary hearings on current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy. This document provides a comprehensive assessment of the current situation, as well as strategic recommendations to the Ukrainian authorities, which have been made by all the patriotic pro-European factions and groups. In the absence of time, I will make another recommendation. With the aim of implementing Russia's international legal responsibility for armed aggression against Ukraine, the State is to prepare Ukraine's consolidated claim to Russia as an aggressor state for all the enormous amount of damage we have suffered and to present it widely to the UN and the world at large. Let me remind you that during World War II, the Soviet Union began preparing its consolidated claim to Hitlerian Germany long before victory, back in the year 42. Thus, acceptance of these recommendations will significantly strengthen Ukraine’s foreign political position in the international arena. Oleg Láska’s radical party was very active in the preparation of this strategic document. And we urge all of you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u50	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich gives the word of Tarasyuk. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. First of all, I would like to state on behalf of the Fatherland faction that Fatherland supports this decision, which contains recommendations on relevant issues of Ukraine's foreign policy. We support this decision because it is an extremely relevant issue for any state policy, and above all for Ukraine. Regrettably, parliamentary hearings and consideration of the recommendation ruling do not indicate that for most factions and national MPs this is an important aspect of the protection of the national interests of the State and the implementation of foreign policy. The lack of attention was demonstrated during the hearings and by the government. No member of the government attended these hearings. And if it wasn't for the students, I think the room would be almost empty. But hearing participants and, above all, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs worked hard on the recommendations. This work was carried out with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The recommendations contain important positions that have already been referred to by the committee’s chairman, Hanna Hopko. In particular, it is about the need to produce and adopt the basic principles of Ukraine’s foreign policy this year. I would like to remind you that the system's approach to Ukraine's foreign policy was hit by a devastating blow during Yanukovic's reign, when on July 1, 2010, the only system document "The Basic Directions of Ukraine's Foreign Policy" was destroyed. In particular, the recommendations also include the need for a new edition of the Law on Diplomatic Service, which is being implemented this year for 100 years. In this regard, I want to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are working on drafting a new bill and we will expect it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u52	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u53	The Supreme Council will consider proposals for a new edition of this law. Because it's a diplomatic service, it's about giving tools and weights to people working on a diplomatic front that's no less important than a war front. Therefore, given the relevance of foreign policy to protect the interests of the State, Fatherland calls on all national MPs to support the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u54	Thank you. Colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement now, and I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall in a few minutes, there's going to be a vote and a decision making, and I'm asking you to invite a fellow MP into the hall. And Krivenko Victor passes the word to Oksani Jurinec for the performance. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the faction of Peter Dustenka will support this important, strategically oriented decision. Why is it so important? Because it has been said that the international front, the diplomatic front, is very important to keep this front in the east of the country. Unfortunately, today we are in a state of information war, the third world war, which unfortunately is very difficult for us today. Oil and gas are now being blackmailed. It is through working with our partners, with our neighbors, that the defined and strategic position of our foreign policy will help us to resist this. Today, many things are happening on the outer front and are being held by a unified position of government, parliament, the President. Together, together, we can overcome all that is set before us today, only in unity will our strength and our victory. The key principles set out in this regulation today are those recommendations that will be implemented after hearings, which will bring exactly this positive result that we all expect. Yes, it was because of the severe war and difficult situation in the country that we became subject to international politics today. But this is exactly the chance today to make a completely new statement about our nation, our nation and our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u56	Heroic glory! So the discussion is over. We can move on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking you to take up jobs, get ready for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the topic "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy" (No. 6014) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support 6014 on the basis and in general, we vote, we support. [[11:21:17]] For 211 Colleagues, the decision is not made. I'll be back in a minute. If you would like the heads of factions to facilitate the invitation of the deputies to the Hall, please show by factions to guide yourself. Please turn on the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 82, National Front – 55, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Radical Party Lachka – 15, Fatherskina – 11, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 3. Colleagues, I think there's a possibility and there's a need for us to be able to mobilize right now and get back to it. Please invite deputies, take up jobs, and I will now make an offer to return to the debate. Please, you can see that every vote matters, and so I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Rule 6014. I'm asking everyone. I'll wait, yeah. You're ready, aren't you? Ma'am, Ola? Ready. Please vote, please vote, please support the proposal to return to 6014. Vote. [[11:23:01]] For 228 We're back. Now, colleagues, please remain seated. I am voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "Current issues of Ukraine's foreign policy" (6014). On the basis and in general. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. We're voting on our colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:23:37]] For 226 It's been decided. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (5509). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please. [[11:24:15.]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Foreign Minister, Mirror Olenna Volodymyrovna. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u57	Can I talk to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u58	Yes, please, the microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u59	Thank you. Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, is submitting to your consideration a draft Act amending article 16 on the status of foreigners and stateless persons, which is in fact proposed to regulate the status of private domestic employees of foreign diplomatic institutions in Ukraine, as well as those who work under a contract of employment and are not part of the staff of these institutions. At present, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not register these workers and is registering exclusively passport documents from members of diplomatic staff of consular officials of the foreign administrative and consular institutions in Ukraine. At the same time, legislation does not regulate the registration of passport documents for registered domestic workers. At the same time, the Employment of Population Act does not provide for the granting of permission to apply the work of these persons for the submission of foreign diplomatic institutions or members of their staff, since they are not employers in the sense of the Employment Act. Thus, based on international practice and on the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, on the basis of these changes in Ukrainian legislation, it is proposed to register the passport documents of persons designated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine with a view to regulating their status in Ukraine. The proposed changes will allow for the regulation of this legal status in Ukraine of the persons listed and the necessary changes to the status of those persons. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u60	Thank you. I invite you to the report of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations of the People's Deputies, Valerius Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u61	Madam-in-chief, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on February 8, 2017, reviewed the draft Act amending article 16 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons without Nationality (registration No. 5509), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee supported the proposed amendments to article 16 of the Act on the granting of powers to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the part of the registration of passports for private domestic workers, members of diplomatic representatives of foreign consular institutions, international organisations and their representation in Ukraine, representatives of States with international organizations with headquarters in Ukraine, as well as persons working under a contract of employment in these institutions and who are not part of the staff of diplomatic representatives of foreign consular institutions. At the same time, the Committee notes that in the proposed drafting of the bill, there may be preconditions for the abuse of diplomatic representatives and consular personnel, primarily States of migration risk, as well as officials of international missions who are citizens of such states. This can lead to uncontrolled and unlimited entry into Ukraine by foreigners from the category of domestic workers and further possible illegal entry into other countries, usually members of the European Union. Instead, our nation has undertaken an effective and preventive policy to combat illegal migration, including the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 16 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (Registration No. 5509) (since 08.12.2016), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. I ask you all, colleagues, to adopt the above-mentioned bill as a basis and to further develop it on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u62	Thank you. Please prepare for the discussion. Please record for discussion. I would like to invite you to the floor of the National MP Irina Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u63	The "Peter Prashenko Block" will support the proposed amendments to Bill 5509. This is about expanding the list of persons whose passports are registered with the MCC at the same time as diplomatic missions. In fact, this addition to the Supreme Council creates more comfortable conditions for foreign diplomats and consuls, which in turn will have a positive impact on bilateral relations and on Ukraine's international cooperation. So I would like to invite a colleague to come into the hall and support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u64	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u65	Thank you. Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this bill was discussed at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I personally proposed that the order of registration of workers, auxiliary workers from foreign countries in Ukraine should be provided for the interaction of those countries in which. Who ask for such order. Otherwise, there will be discrimination when we grant such a right of registration to foreign representatives and there will be no such right for Ukrainian citizens in their respective countries. That's the first remark. Second remark. We believe that the bill requires further work, particularly the right of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make such a registration, and the order of registration must be determined by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in order to simplify this order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u66	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies, Mr. Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I have such an impression that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is actually imitating its activities. Why does he imitate? Because look at the agenda: actually some secondary questions. Is there nothing for us to decide in the economy, is this concept no longer so relevant and priority in the activities of the legislative body of Ukraine? Against the backdrop of a three percent devaluation, this is not relevant to the loss of external markets, is this not relevant in the light of the increase in government debt? When was he 600 billion when he was 13 years old, now 2.2 trillion dollars? Is it not appropriate to consider economic issues? Because exports since 2013 in 2016 amounted to 43 billion when they amounted to 63 billion in 2013. Thirty percent drop. Is it not appropriate to consider economic issues when the minimum wage is $200 and now it is $120? Is it not relevant to consider economic and housing tariffs when they have only been increased 2-4 times in the last two years? This bill, of course, is technical. We're going to support it because it's geared towards registering the passport data of the assistant staff of the post-graduate staff. Moreover, I would like to point out that everyone is talking about the relevance of this bill, but it has been introduced so many times. Very many plenary weeks have passed, it has not been considered. But the opposition block faction does call for coalitions and most of them to support these bills and agendas, to look at the priority issues. The issues related not to the implementation of this dragon's land pension reform, but to the development of the economy, especially those bills that we have registered, the Opposition Block, rather than to address these secondary issues by imitating the activities of the legislative body.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u68	Thank you. I just want to make sure that we're actually talking about the draft law. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. In a few minutes, we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u69	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please, each of these ballots is unpleasant, probably for every one of those who is in the room, when we don't literally select a few votes. So I'm voting on a draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (for private domestic workers and local staff of foreign diplomats) (No. 5509) as a basis. The committee proposes that the law be adopted only as a basis. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please, every voice matters. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:35:34]] For 212 We didn't make it. Please come into the hall. Fellows, do not leave the hall, but go into the hall. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. Show factions to guide the heads of factions. So now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to go back to the draft. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law amending article 16 of the Law on Legal Status (No. 5509). Please vote. Please support the offer to return. Colleagues, pay attention! Heads of factions! Vote. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[11:37:02]] For 213 There's another position, I see? Perhaps you support the committee’s work? Ask for advice. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'm going to do it again. Colleagues, perhaps, will we unite around the proposal for a committee to work on? It can be supported, right? Okay. I'll do it again. I'm gonna do it again. Ask for advice again. "For," right? Okay. I'll make another offer to come back. If we don't get a vote, I'll put it on the committee for work. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I'm once again proposing that we go back to looking at the basis. If there are no votes, I'll put an offer on the committee for further work. I urge all members of the people to enter the hall. I'll wait another 30 seconds. Please come into the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Non-Citizens (5509). And I ask everyone to take part in the vote, colleagues. Colleagues, please stop for a moment of discussion, take part in the vote. Maxim! There's a good one. I'll bet the vote back to 5509. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[11:39:46]] For 219 Seven votes. Should we put the next one on the committee or wait for five deputies? All right, I'll do it again, but help me. Call someone who's not around. I'll put it back again. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take part in the vote. I see, yes, the deputies are here, right? Now I ask you all to prepare, because every voice, as you can see, is relevant during this vote. Everyone, please prepare carefully for the vote. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law (5509) on the legal status of foreigners and non-citizens. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Colleagues, call Tetian. I see, well, tell me. All right, a group of deputies has been held in order for us to vote. To explain their position, please, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. And I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Tarasuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already made two remarks, one of which was made at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Given the need to adopt this bill in the first reading, I propose to support its adoption in the first reading under the condition that the comments made will be made to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u71	Thank you for your position. It looks like we're going to get a positive vote. Please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law (5509) on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote. [[11:42:35.]] For 223 I'll do it again. And I ask you not to speak on the phone, but to vote on the vote. Don't leave, colleagues. Once again, I'm proposing to return to 5509. I'd like everyone to vote. Please take part in the vote. Please vote return. Vote for return to 5509 [[11:43:22]] For 225 One voice. I'll bet again. One voice. I see there's a national MP. And I'm going back to (5509) the draft Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. Please vote carefully, please vote, please support. We vote carefully, each voice matters. We're voting for the return. [[11:44:03]] For 231 And now I'm putting the Bill 5509 on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons on the ground. Just on the basis of that, that's the compromise position we agreed on. And please take up jobs, we're making a decision based on 5509. Please vote, please support. Vote. We vote carefully and responsibly. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:44:47]] For 238. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to establish criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide) (number 4088). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:45:45.]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Silantiev Denis Olegovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u72	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! According to the World Health Organization, about 10,000 suicides were introduced in Ukraine annually. The average for our country is 22 suicides per 100,000 people. Ukraine is found in dozens of countries with the highest suicide rate. According to scientific sources, the ratio of suicide to suicide is about 1 to 20. At the same time, between 2010 and 2015, only four convictions for suicide — less than one sentence a year — were passed in Ukraine. As technological progress unfolds, new, formerly nonexistent crimes and ways of committing crimes are emerging, and we have recently become witnesses. "Blue Whale," "F-57," "The Silent House," such as the other names of the suicidal game that came to us from social networks, emphasized the urgent need to adopt this bill. To date, it is not possible to bring a suspect into criminal liability because of the lack of a responsible norm of the Criminal Code. In view of the world’s tendency to increase crime on the Internet and the emergence of a new way of leading to suicide, it is necessary to make timely changes to criminal legislation that will meet the current challenges posed by criminals. Our children are in danger. And even if we find a criminal, because of the imperfections of criminal law, we will not be able to bring him to justice. The experience of condemning suicide on the Internet is already common in other countries, and this has proved once and for all the correctness of the vector of the bill. The flexibility of precedents is not characteristic of our state, and it is criminal legislation that requires change. The bill is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u73	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u74	The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine and impose sanctions at the legislative level for contributing to suicide. This is primarily the danger of our children with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u75	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, I would like to draw the attention of all those present in this House to this bill, because this is, indeed, a necessary and necessary bill not only for Ukrainian society, but also for Ukrainian parents, but also for the rapid response of the people's deputies and the Supreme Council for what is happening today in society. From the words of the rescued victim, the victim, when investigating a criminal case, the suspect called himself on the Internet and in social media a woman's name, named and represented as a nurse, counseling and recommending how better to commit suicide, helping to choose a place to kill, to hang, and to use tools to get it together. So today there's a problem, a problem with our children, a problem that may be, a problem with teenagers and a problem with those who are constantly on the Internet today. Because there are people who encourage children, teenagers to commit suicide and make videos. Cut your arm with a blade, jump out of a multi-story building and film it in a video. It's terrible and it's a crime. Thus today, it is impossible to bring to justice the suspect’s criminal responsibility because of his absence from the scope of article 120 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which he intentionally committed and which led, by the way, 9 persons, 9 young girls, to commit suicide. Therefore, colleagues, the committee at its meeting decided today to recommend the bill as a basis and to adopt it as a law as soon as possible. I ask your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u77	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u78	Captain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u79	He's handing it over to Olenia Stonik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u80	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I would like to say that, in fact, the Internet and these terrible events that we've seen in recent months, what's happening is a new challenge. Legislation has to respond and change in line with the challenges that society poses, including the distribution of such neurolinguistic virtual programming on the Internet, which causes young people to live, to see this world again, to commit suicide, that is, to take their own lives. Clearly, this bill is relevant, and we will support it in the first reading. But I call on both the committee and the colleague, and personally I am also ready to work on this, in fact, to analyze the editorial that the colleagues have proposed, so that she can answer the questions and we can really bring the guilty to justice. Because actually what's happening on the Internet is a psychological impact that's very difficult to prove, which is very difficult to detect, which is very difficult to detect, so find a person and then condemn. So we need to be very specific, very careful and at the same time correct with the definitions. In particular, this bill does not define such a term or psychological violence, or psychological influence, in order to have a clear impact in court cases, I hope that in the future they will not be there if we can bring them to justice. Yet, the guilty were clearly punished and brought to justice. So I propose that the committee work actively on this, redraft the law, and adopt it in a second reading, taking into account also the comments made by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u81	Heratchenko Anton Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u82	Honorable MPs, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people! It's a very important bill, it expands the range of people who can lead others to suicide. Why is this bill so important? The point is that at one time I was led to suicide by, for example, threats, other influences, for example, if you don't repay the debt, I will kill you, and the person ended up killing himself, it was simple and understandable. Now, thanks to the development of the Internet, information technology, suicide, including young people, the way young people go is through a variety of games when the person who commits suicide makes special programs doesn't even know the person who commits suicide to his contract. So this bill by MP Silantiev, for which we should be grateful, extends the notion of "to commit suicide" to the involvement of any person, including those who were personally unknown to the person who ended their lives by suicide, those who might be sitting thousands of miles away from the computer behind which the child or the teenager, watching and doing some kind of program, ends their lives by suicide. So I propose to support this bill, the People's Front will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u83	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u84	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party This is an extremely important bill developed by my teammates, Denis Silantiev and Oleg Ljashk. And by developing it, they focused primarily on what is happening in the present informational aggression against our Ukrainian youth, against our Ukrainian children. And it's happening both through social networks, the Internet, and through television. The Radical Party has always protected and protected Ukrainian children from external influences, from manic influences. Moreover, we think that all these blue whales and other similar groups that cause the suicide of Ukrainian children are the result of their own owners, the developers are sitting in the Kremlin, sitting in Lubyanca, sitting in the FSB and fighting, destroying the future of the Ukrainian nation. We therefore urge the Ukrainian Parliament to support this bill and protect Ukrainian children from external influences.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u85	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u86	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. In two minutes, we're going to go to the decision-making center. That's why I'm asking you to come to the hall with a smile. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, and the heads of factions, invite the deputies to the Hall in two minutes -- making a decision. And now, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovitch gives the word to Andrija Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u87	Dear The chairman, the honourable colleagues, I am grateful to Dennis Silantieva for having invited me to co-sponsor this bill. And I would like to stress once again that in September 2015 criminal offences have been committed. In relation to Eugenia Krivosheeva, under article 120 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. He is suspected of, again, committing suicide through the Internet of nine young women, four of whom lived in Russia, five in Ukraine. Sadly, only one victim in Ukraine was able to save her. In this case, law enforcement officials found an I.R. address of a person who, using a woman's name, found them on the social network "Contact" of future victims and led them to suicide. The suspect’s apartment searched and removed a computer from the Internet that suspected the suicide of nine victims. From the words of the rescued victim, the suspect called himself a woman's name, I repeat, presented himself as a nurse, gave advice and recommendations, how better to kill himself, offered to do it together, chose a place to hang and a tool, and very, very much persuaded them to take this step together. The correspondence of the suspect with the other victims confirmed this very way of leading to suicide. After the death of the victims, which is even more cynical in the actions of this monster man, the suspect wrote on social networks to the relatives of the dead who were confirmed by the relatives themselves. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, accept it as a basis, and shorten the time to prepare for. Yes, before being accepted as a law in general for up to 7 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u88	Thank you. Still a group of factions that do not fall into the list of those who are registered require a word. After a minute, especially if you support him so that we don't go out of time. Jacinko, one minute, then Dudenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u89	Dear friends, this law really needs support. The only thing I have to say is that I have a personal comment on it. We're going to vote now, of course, but we're going to introduce very small sentences, well, up to three years of free will, which I think is that if, for example, we had a place like all of these Blue Whales, there, The Silent House and all the other games, and relatively juveniles, then of course we have to do this punishment as a serious crime, for example, from 5 to 10 years, I think. So let's vote, but then we'll work on this law to make the punishment weighty, not like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u90	Thank you. I'm just going to remind you that we're only going to vote on the basis, and we're going to be able to work out all the proposals. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u91	The Opposition Block faction will support a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code to establish criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide. I just have such a big request to my colleagues in the hall not to politicize this process, because there's no need to look for Kremlin agents, there's someone else in any way. The question is, indeed, very urgent. And there's a very big danger among young people who are now fascinated by these social networks, and because of these social networks, of course, they pose a threat to their lives, and there have been such tragic accidents. But as for the substance of the bill, I have comments about the wording. As far as punishment is concerned, I fully support this second reading: the word "suicide attempt" is replaced by "suicide attempt". The Criminal Code has no concept of "trying to commit a crime," there's only a combination of "acting a crime." So in this part, I wouldn't change this bill. And in general, of course, on the basis of that, I urge my colleagues to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u92	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. I am voting on a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to establish criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide) (number 4088) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote. Please support an extremely relevant and important bill. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:01:25]] For 229 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, a reduced procedure for second reading. They're not coming out, colleagues. One more vote. Please support the shortcut for submitting amendments to the second reading. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. I carefully vote on each vote. [[12:01:56]] For-198 There is no common position on this issue. Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. And according to the Rules, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. I'd like you all to come to the hall at 12:35. At 12:35 we will go to hearing information about the activities of the prosecutor's office, and in the Supreme Council will have a report by the Attorney-General of Ukraine Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u93	Colleagues, break time is over. I would like to remind you that yesterday we voted in favour of an invitation to a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide information to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the activities of the prosecutor's offices. Colleagues, the following regulations are proposed: half an hour's speech by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, and then, to avoid injustice in the hall, half an hour's questions from the deputies and half an hour's time, questions from factions so that each faction can participate in the discussion. I think that's going to be the fairest approach. And actually, we're going to be working under that rule right now after the break. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and go into the hall and prepare for the discussion. And I would like to welcome to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Attorney General Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. And I want to remind you once again, within half an hour, of the performance, Yuri Vitaliyovich, half an hour, of the question from the deputies and half an hour from the factions. Same rule as an hour before the Bureau of Questions: one minute is a question, two minutes is an answer. If the answer is important, of course, I will go on for a while, but I ask all members of the people to enter into a set timetable. And I invite you to provide information to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives of the media! The goal of my life in all my positions, and wherever I found myself, was to fight for justice. A year ago, after receiving your high commission in this rostrum, I realized that I could fight for justice by means of its greatness of law. My main task was to form a new team that could demonstrate to all of Ukraine the rule of law and justice. That is why I consider the completion of the investigation and the commencement of the trial against Yanukovic, who is accused of treason by the Ukrainian people, to be my greatest achievement in the year. And this is just the first step. It was former President Viktor Janukovic who was a symbol of evil both for Maidan and for the vast majority of Ukrainians. Now, as Attorney General, I'm going to prove it in court. Evil will be punished. On the other hand, I would like to thank all the people's deputies (about 240) who recently voted in favour of the Law on the Order of Indictment and have broken plans to break up the case of Yanukovich and the other manuals. In spite of the politicized, in my view, Interpol's decision, this law will draw us to responsibility and condemn all those who have robbed and killed Ukrainians and are now hiding outside of it. For days, I was abandoned by a respected public organization that said that there was no corruption against Yanukovic. That's not true. Moreover, I would like to stress that in the pursuit of grants, you cannot discredit your country by lying through the mouths of highly respected international institutions. I report that there are dozens of corrupt practices against Yanukovic and his greatest environment. In key cases, we have already completed – once again for those who are not hearing well – the trial against Yanukovic, Azarov, Arbusov, Kolobov, Klimenka, Stavitsky, Kurchenka, others, and now the question of the Cave Court. Today, in Ukraine, there is a final operation in Klimenko’s second case, which relates to tax havens. As you probably already know, about 500 searches were carried out this morning, already being held and delivered to the Attorney General's Office in bonds of 22 former tax administrators who have caused damage to Ukraine about $10 billion. Among them are managers and tax collectors of the following areas: Kharkivsky is Denisuk, Lugansk is Antipova. By the way, he had $2.8 million in his suitcase. Czverkuna – Crimea, Lyzuna – Poltavščina, Rosdeibide – Harkovsky, Lipinski – Dnipropetrovska, Maslova – deputy of the Kharkiv region. District officials in Kiev are tax inspectors from Shevchenkovsky, Svetoszynski, Darnitsky, Podilski, Pechersky, and individual districts of Odessa and today’s Kropivnitsky. Regrettably, several executives, members of an organized crime group, who broke budgets through so - called tax havens, were warned and fled in two areas. The border guards are waiting, but it is best to surrender to the investigation. This will reduce the responsibility of the court. For those who gossip. That this and the other detentions don't end in anything, I'm telling you. The 32 ex-owners of Janukovic's time and the heads of the fictitious businesses that serve them are already being answered in the trial. In particular, on the bench of defendants there is now the deputy head of Nazbank at the time, the director of the National Bank unit, two tax inspectors in the Pecher district. As you can see, it's not just a district, it's a cost-sharing institution. Head of the SEPEC Company Department, former head of the Kyiv District Administration. Sixteen people have already been sentenced by the court. Among them is former Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Head of the Committee on Oil, Gas Condensate, Dried Gas and Coal of Sukhomlin, Deputy Chairman of the NAC Government, Naftogaz Ukraine, Katsuba, Head of the Ukrainian Tax Police. During the investigation, the state was compensated for damages of some 360 million dollars. In addition, the demonstrations of these and other convicted parties in signing the agreements led the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to lead the energy sector at the time, including the dignitaries who still have the mandate of the People's Deputy. We're not going to stop working hard against a former ruling mob, no matter how much I'm told that nobody cares. No one hides in Rostov or Moscow or in the exotic islands, thanks to an adopted coalition and a respected Fatherland law, will be held accountable and all their assets will be confiscated here and abroad. Dear National Deputies! As I promised, the crime of obstructing peaceful protests in Maidan has been intensified. Since the beginning of the investigation, 147 indictments against 228 individuals have been brought before the courts by law enforcement authorities. During my term as Attorney General, 31 indictments were filed against 70 persons. In particular, an indictment has been brought against the former head of the capital police, who has been incriminated to carry out the beatings of November 30 and December 1. Also in May, an indictment was brought against the former First Deputy Governor of Odessa, who was part of the organization on February 19, 2014. Another 20 people, including district and city officials of the Odessa militia of those days, are on trial. At present, 42 people have been convicted by courts in this category of field affairs. I am well aware of the demands of the people, the demands of the national MPs and my personal desire to see in the ranks of the defendants also the organizers of the crimes against the peaceful demonstrators of Maidan. Therefore, with the information of prosecutors and investigators in charge, I can inform you that the case of the indictment of Yanukovic and Zacharychenk for the events, more loyally, will be brought before the court in Maydan against peaceful demonstrators immediately after the trial of Janukovic’s treason. I'll explain just in case. You know, it is good that if two things are to be directed against one person, they must be united. In order not to delay the time and get a fair verdict on Janukovic's treason, we await this verdict and immediately next week we are filing a case for the next crime against Majdan, and then step by step, the case at hand, everything that the Janukovic mob has done. That won't be quick. Judgments are not executed quickly. Even in the United States, a superstate that can control the movement of all the world’s finances is hearing the case against Lazarus for seven years. We don't have that much time, I understand. I cannot say how much will Janukovic's case and his surroundings be heard in our courts, but I can firmly say that in this year the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine has made these courts possible. This is the greatest achievement. In accordance with the law and new powers. I'm sorry. I say the word "we" are done because no one, no Attorney General, can organize these trials himself. I immediately understood the need to create a new team in the prosecutor’s office. I knew that it needed to be reformed and changed. In accordance with the law and the new powers that you have delegated through the Joint Procuratorial Act we have adopted, the number of prosecutors has already been reduced to a quarter. That year a vacancy contest was held through open public competitions. And all the vacancies, there were about 600, 82 percent of those vacancies, were held by people who never worked in the prosecutor's office. That's how they're going to open up, honestly, because of the competitions, they're going to come in and fill the prosecutor's office with new faces. Last but not least, this is due to an increase in wages. On behalf of the prosecutors, I want to thank the Supreme Council for being able to raise the salary by 45 percent. Now the prosecutor of the first year of the local prosecutor's office has between 9 and 10,000 dollars in his hands, and the regional prosecutor has between 11 and 12,000 dollars. Since May of this year, distinguished national MPs have been involved in prosecutorial self - government. From now on, the Attorney General can neither appoint nor remove any supervisor on any prosecution chain. And that's good. This means that the steel model of the GPU has died. Never again can the Attorney General or any other supervisor force a subordinate prosecutor or investigator to violate an order, perhaps politically motivated, a case against any person, fearing his likely discharge. There's nothing more can be done in the D.A.'s office. Of course, I also remember the old principle of trust, but check. That is why in December of last year, a special committee with six of the seven positions held by representatives of public organizations in an open competition broadcast live was selected by a new director and staff of the General Prosecutor’s Office’s Office’s General Inspectorate to clean up dirt, traitors, and corrupters from that department. Within a short period of time, 46 prosecutors have been released from the work of the Geninspection since January, as well as unreliable data in electronic declarations. And it's not about petty prosecutors, it's about a sufficiently well-known investigator, especially in the important cases of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, which have been very much asked by the national MPs, the deputy prosecutors of Zitomirsk, Kirovogradsk, Lugansk and other areas. This work will continue on a permanent basis. At the same time, I would like to express my gratitude and to those prosecutors who believed in the principles that I have stated, they stood next to me in updating the work of the Civil Service. And this is exactly what I have to report on today's achievements in the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, you may well know that there are very well - paid and large numbers of lawyers against prosecutors in resonating cases. For example, in Yanukovich’s case, we are faced with about 50 lawyers with very good wages, as I understand. And there are two prosecutors against them for treason, our peers, with a salary of 20,000 dollars. But it's not just about pay. These prosecutors have what Janukovic doesn't have, honour, conscience and principles to fight for Ukraine. And I'm sure we can do that, just like the prosecutors did for the same salary, without fear of mob revenge, by returning 40 billion dollars to the government budget. We don't ride in armored "cubs" and we don't have 10 guards guarding us when we land near the Supreme Council. We're protected by what we believe, we're working for Ukraine, this money needed by the state was long ago. We also believe that the prosecution is changing. The wheat was the face of a corrupt, virtually thieving organ. It is well - known that during the construction of the new structure, they were wise even to steal 60 million dollars. Even in the construction of its own structure. So these young boys who are now fighting in the courts against those criminals, against that mob, are a new face that looks nothing like Pshonka. I want to tell you now about the individual pride of the prosecutor's office. Those who refuse bribes and arrest those who offer the bribe. In particular, the investigator of the Kyrovograd’s Attorney General’s Office refused to receive a bribe of $35,000. The Lviv garrison military prosecutor is from a $40,000 bribe. The South Regional Military Prosecutor is from a $75,000 bribe. And the Attorney General’s investigator, who left the occupied territory of Lugansk, refused a $200,000 bribe. I believe this testifies to the process of updating and healing the Attorney General's Office. Dear colleagues, let me play some numbers. If you take a year's work and divide it by the bottom, all of you, without exception, with the weekends, we can say that the new prosecutor's office brought 142 million dollars a day to the state budget, 142 million dollars a day. Over the year, the Ukrainian budget, thanks to the activities of the U.S.S. and our law enforcement colleagues, returned 52 million dollars to the state treasury, at the annual rate. One billion dollars. At the annual budget of the Attorney General's Office at 5. During the year, 200 hectares [200 ha] of land were returned to national ownership. Every day. Two hundred acres [200 ha] stolen. A total of over 200 billion dollars. I think we can thank the simple and principled prosecutors who did this important thing for the entire Ukrainian society. The best thanks, honourable national MPs, may be your decision to make them even more independent, even more principled, and even more successful. I would also like you to thank those prosecutors who have returned the funds in criminal proceedings. For example, investigative prosecutors, whose efforts enabled the Deposit Guarantee Fund to obtain 53 million dollars from a fraud loan from one of the banks. Those that resulted in the payment of 180 million dollars to the budget at the end of 2016 by enterprises that were part of Burisma Holding. Those who have engaged in the fight against illegal activity are actually a monopoly on tobacco trade in Ukraine, TEDIS, and have already returned 300 million dollars to the budget in advance of 200. Those who, at the end of April, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, had ensured the application of a special confiscation mechanism that had never been able to go through a subversive part of the MPs, through Parliament, we were able to do it alone, and a billion 300 million dollars were returned to the state treasury. I'm proud of these guys. I promise I'll keep going. Both money and strategic real estate objects in Ukraine and abroad will return to Ukrainian property. The words of no less thanks are due to those prosecutors who, along with the police, worked with the police on a daily routine of work. It may not interest anyone, it's from high-level workers, but it's very disturbing for ordinary people, the situation on the street, the criminogenic activation on the street. For me, for example, it is important not only to expose a high - ranking employer but, for example, to expose a gang of carjackers in the capital, to investigate an attack on an attaché and his wife, to hold a drunkard responsible who took the lives of two children, to investigate murders, robberies, and home thefts all over the country. What I'm saying is that by working together with the IMF, we were able to reduce criminal activity on the streets by 15-20 percent in the first quarter of this year. How? The only way available today is by the courts. As a result of last year’s activity, 34,000,470 robbers, 4,000, 131 robbers, and 893 robbers were convicted. The real terms of punishment reached 10,000,624 persons, and a criminogenic danger fell on the streets of Ukrainian cities. We're working on it. Corruption in today’s government. Of course, we can't get past it. Even though this is mainly related to the subordination of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau created by Parliament, we cannot remain observers in this fight. So by agreeing on legal positions, we've come up with the possibility of directing joint investigators and joint prosecutors from SAP and NABU, and in this direction we're moving successfully. How successful? During the year we were in office, we handed over a thousand and 191 cases of criminal corruption to the court. In translation into human language, this means that every day we handed over three bribes and looters of state property, three of whom were sent to court. It's for those who talk about some fisherman who's supposed to be released to a court of 1,000 and 191 large and small bribes. This is said to be the small head of the village council in the Borispil district. Yeah, only he took 250,000 euros of bribes, that's different. Or, on the other hand, even that tax collector in Lviv who took $200 is also important because it interrupted the chain of theft against the state. Each bribe is an exposed enemy of the nation, whose elimination means the elimination of the cancer tumor of our society, the total, total and total bribe. I'd like to be heard by Ukrainians right now. In the 191 cases of bribes that we sent to court, the vast majority were detained, and then sent to court on the claim of the victims for which the money was required. Please, if you're being asked to bribe anyone, please go to the D.A.'s office and we'll bring this case to trial, I can guarantee that. I want to say again, whoever it is, prosecutors who don't have that much protection, who don't fear under a hail of charges, and don't be afraid. Whoever requires you, the minister, the governor, the chief, the deputy, the prosecutor's office, together we will overcome this evil, together, together. The responsibility of seniors is a subject. And stop saying "big fish" is letting go. During the year, indictments have already been referred to the court regarding the person who was acting at the time of the arrest of the deputy minister of health, who, for the sake of personal gain, demanded payment to the doctors of the so - called ransom. The acting first deputy head of the U.S. Department of Labour and the fact that he received an improper benefit of 200,000 dollars. The acting judge of Ukraine’s Supreme Court of Agriculture, who, by means of deception, sought to acquire foreign property worth over a million dollars. The acting first deputy head of the Mikolai District Administration, Hero of Ukraine, for a bribe of $90,000. The acting director of the Odessa district government unit for receiving the wrong benefit of nearly one and a half million dollars. The functioning High Town Head and its manuals, which required 300,000 euros of bribes and 4,000 square feet [4,000 sq m] of nonresidential facilities. A criminal group led by a deputy district attorney in the province of Ravenna, who headed the so-called Burstin Mafia. The owners of the headquarters of the Fiscal Service in Mikolayivsk, Kharkiv, were put in the pocket of a total of over a million dollars. Head of the Department of Defense of Ukraine for a bribe of 350,000 dollars. Acting Deputy Chief of the Lviv Customs, 15,000 dollars worth of bribes. The director of a huge state-owned enterprise called the U.S. Army, which received $30,000 for land embezzlement. Deputy head of the Kiev State Administration for 200,000 bribes and many others. There are still few relevant cases pending before the court. A trial is completed, and there is a procedure to familiarize the members of the High Council of Justice, who received $50,000 worth of bribes from the mediator. Owners of the Buchan City Council, who illegally withdrew 890 hectares [890 ha] from state property. The investigation is under way and has already been reported to the main figures of corruption schemes, such as the deputy head of the Kharkiv City Council. The fiscal service of the Kyiv region, chief. The Mikolai seaport. In fact, the owner of Terra Bank, the head of the Mikhailovsky Bank. Both society and we in the prosecutor’s office are looking forward to court rulings. For the truth is that the ratio of the conducts sent to the court and the judicial judgments received is totally unacceptable, terrible. In 2015 a thousand 696 cases were brought before the State’s law enforcement authorities. Court hearings with sentence 755 have been completed. In 2016 we're sending a thousand 739 cases -- we're getting 492 sentences. In the current year, we're sending 700 new leads -- we're getting 230 decisions. This means that the judicial system is a real threat to the establishment of justice. Moreover, out of all of these sentences, only 100 persons received a real sentence of deprivation. This situation can't be acceptable to me as the Attorney General, I'm sure, not to the MPs, not to the society you represent. What is the reason? One reason for this crisis is the number of judges in the courts. For example, there are only four judges in Darnicki, Obolonski, and Podilj district courts, five judges in Glossievsky, Pecherski. To the Cave, Solomon’s District Courts The entire stack of cases against high - ranking workers, which goes to the Pecher Court, is to be handled by five judges. In 2016 and the current year, the number of criminal conduct that has been brought before the courts is sometimes thousands. Look, Solomonian -- two thousand 69 cases, Darnicki -- a thousand 163, Pechersky -- 857 -- we just don't have anyone to deal with and execute. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much want you to understand this. I am forbidden by law to speak of possible corruption in courts, as others may say. But I have to say, there are no judges. We're sending thousands of cases, but nobody's taking them. So I would very much like you to consider the recently introduced committee that I sincerely appreciate, thank you for your support, Andry Anatoliyevich Cosemyakin, the project on the creation of a specialised chamber in the existing Criminal Court for the consideration of category "A" cases. This anti-corruption court, I stress, of the new judges elected by open public trials, can start a real justice mechanism in the courts by the end of this year. I'm not against any other option, creating it from scratch and so forth, but I'm sure that creating an anti-corruption court as a chamber of existing new judges can be faster, more effective and arranged literally in the coming month. We would ask you very much, and this will result in justice and the rule of law in the country. Dear colleagues, let me turn to one of the thorny topics: checking electronic declarations. I started with the fact that you and I, in the absolute majority, were standing on Maidan for Ukraine without bribes. In this Parliament, when we came to him, two thirds were the forces of Maidan. Has something changed for us? Let's confirm these slogans together: "The Bandits are Prisons", "The State is Taxes." How can you do that? Start each of you. I'm very sorry, but you've authorized me to check the electronic declarations under Article 212 "Indemnity of taxes." This check now applies to all national MPs, who have declared more than 100,000 dollars in the declaration equivalent to $100,000. And we're running this test. We've already checked with the State Fiscal Service -- and 35 people here, in the hall, people can be completely saved, their declaration is completely in line with all the documents. [[B in m in s a l in]] A few dozen national deputies are being checked by the State Fiscal Service. And when it ends with a document called "the tax notice of the decision," I am obliged by law to refer to the Supreme Council for attraction, more loyally, removal of parliamentary integrity and attraction to criminal responsibility. For the last time, we wanted to do this with the articles of the National Anticorruption Bureau, and I was preparing to sign the same messages to two other national deputies. However, I am the Henprosecutor, who must be responsible for the legality. In the case of Lozov and Dedeja, I found out -- my subjects pointed out -- that was a gross mistake in preparing the application. So it's going back to the SAP. In the event of his arrival, I will again direct him here. With respect to the National Deputy Bobov, there were no such mistakes, and I directed him to the Supreme Council. Just this morning, I was informed by the national deputy Bobov that he agreed to this report and paid more than $1 million in unpaid taxes to the state execution. And I think that's a great example of cleaning up the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, you don't need any screams, you don't need charges. Either an explanation of the tax origin of the money, or pay 18 percent for sleeping quietly and being proud of the rich Ukraine. And one more thing. If you want to live, if you want to drive in armored "cubs" under protection, live in a house like Clovis's, just pay taxes for it. I don't mind, I'm just against doing it without tax. Once again, article 212 is special. Paying taxes closes it. Let's start this process from here, from the Supreme Council, from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, from the Administration of the President of Ukraine, from the Attorney-General's Office and from the Attorney-General's Office, and we will finally show people that there is a responsibility, first of all, to power. Finally, I would like to address you, honourable national MPs, (this is literally my last thesis) and with one more thought. The Attorney General's job is not only to expose crimes, not only to investigate, not only to present accusations in court, but also to seek out partners, allies to destroy the criminogenic issues that bring illegal wealth to the mafia. When they talk about the Mafia today, everyone mentions the times of Yanukovich. According to an expert opinion, including the Institute of Economics of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, more than $40 billion was damaged in the days of Yanukovic Ukraine. It's about one annual spending part of the government budget. I think it's a peak. Now let's think about whether the thesis is true that nothing has changed. And let's think about it because of what's done in this room and beyond. Tax havens have been destroyed. Scrooge is called. Since June 1, an automated system is launched that will destroy them. Get rid of the VAT. Since May 1, there has been an automated system. Double taxation in the country and separately in agricultural enterprises, which were played by the nonconformity heads of the Cypriots. Destroyed. State purchases have been destroyed. I'm not saying it's destroyed definitively, but it's blown hugely, by 80-90 percent. ProZorro did it. What do we have to do with you? I'm telling you, we're with you, because the more you do in this direction, the less you do me. We've got some left.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u95	Please, two minutes before Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u96	The price of gas for the population and industry is destroyed. And these are the basic schemes of wealth. What do we have to do? Three themes. Coal theme. If the break-up was done earlier because of special budget schemes for mines, today the so-called Rotterdam Plus scheme is no less a threat. You do. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to adopt the Coal Rent Act and other useful mines in Ukraine. Just like it's done for gas. Just like it's done for gas. You do that, and we're going to turn this side of mob threats around. We also need to get the customs order in order. There's a lot going on. But the main thing to do is to establish a clearing-house with our neighbours, EU countries, and 80 percent of crime will fall. It takes the political courage of the Cabinet of Ministers to do so. And the third scheme is the most important. The biggest corruption, as far as I appreciate it, is how much it is appreciated by colleagues at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, today is in the field of government enterprise management. Dear colleagues, finally make a decision to privatize Centrenergo, hydroenergo, and all the other businesses that are already rumored all over the Internet. Privatize, and let them pay their taxes! If this is done, I'm sure we can change the face of Ukraine. This Parliament has demonstrated this not once or twice. A healthy coastal anti-corruption majority will be able to resolve this. I'm hoping for your partner work. I am always at the service of the legitimate interests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u97	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. And I remind you, first we have a block of questions from the people's deputies, then the block is separate from the factions. I'm asking you to do the recording. Half an hour is a question to the Attorney General from the Ukrainian people's deputies. Who has the desire to ask questions? Please sign up. It's a recording. Please, colleagues. Storm Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u99	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, a year ago when we appointed you to this post, I asked questions about the situation of the May 2, 2014 investigation in Odessa. I am grateful for some of the developments in this matter, but I would like to ask you about the situation in this investigation today. Because from the information we have today, there are suspects on one side of the events at the Greek Square in Odessa, and now this case is being investigated in Odessa courts. Today, there are no suspects in the Odessa Trade Union House, and this is a source of concern for society. I will be very grateful for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, when I speak of events in Odessa, I have to tell the objective truth about what happened during the investigation. In the course of the Odessa investigation, we have unfortunately failed to find sufficient evidence to draw you to criminal responsibility. You have been shown a lack of witnesses, but your deputy head of state administration is already in court for beating up peaceful demonstrators, as you have quietly observed from the window of your governor’s office. The other one. The investigation also brought to trial suspects of the attack on peaceful people, about 20 of whom were supporters of the Ukrainian federal system, including non - Ukrainian citizens. And as for them, those in Ukraine are being heard. Another number of defendants, I'm sorry, suspects are abroad, and we'll be acting under the Law on Procrastination. So are we. I can tell you that the actions of the leader of the Odessa militia, the district and the city, are also assessed by the investigation, and their cases are being brought to justice. I'm sure the truth will be established in court, whether it's "Russian peace" or not. The Odessa tragedy is the pain of all of Ukraine. And the names of the culprits in this investigation were named. It's a lawsuit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u101	Thank you. Red Olga Valerievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u102	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, just a year ago, as Facebook reminds me, Priipien activists, Irpeña, Butchi, Gostomel, Vorsel, Cotsubinsky carried out such a feast near the Attorney General's Office with posters, portraits of the mayors of Irpen and Butchi Vladimir Karpuk and Anatolia Fedoruk and signatures of why they are not behind bars. On July 27, the Attorney General’s Office searched the mayors of Irpen and Butchi, resulting in a suspicion of Anatolia Fedoruku. Appropriately, no action has yet been taken regarding another figure in the 790 - hectare [790 ha] forest. Could you inform us that these searches were quite resonant, could you inform us when the Fedoruk case and the Buchansk officials were brought to trial? And what actions, and will any action be taken against another figure in this case, Vladimir Karpluk? We were also informed during last year’s caressing that the Attorney General’s Office, the Department of Internal Security, was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u103	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u104	An investigation has been initiated into the inaction and illegal inaction of prosecutors in investigating the previous crimes of these officials?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u105	Thank you. First of all, a total of 890 acres [890 ha] of forest is being actively investigated. At this point, we have the latest expertise, and we are ready to present to the court an indictment that will be based on the theft of some 200 acres [200 ha]. The rest of the hectares are built up, and their damage will, of course, be appreciated, but these can probably be returned to the state. Now we're waiting for expertise, and this law requires the final amount of damage in an illegal decision on the construction of these hectares. There's a separate expertise going through every area. You can understand that, unfortunately, it needs a lot of work. However, experts tell me that the matter, in the coming months, may be completed. And then as soon as we get this expertise, we're going to refer the indictment to Mr. Fedoruk and his, with the permission to say, colleagues who were engaged in the illegal destruction of the forest plantations. With regard to checking the objectivity of the GSP’s staff, there is nothing I can say at present in the interests of the General Inspectorate. One second. Irpine's investigation is still in phase one. Because up to 890 hectares, Mr. Krapluk is not involved in the investigation. However, we are studying the situation with the forests of Irpin. And there's also something to do to an investigator, which is what they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u106	Thank you. Eutusek Sergei gives the word for, not for, not for. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u107	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Mr. Attorney General, in your report you spoke of "the great fish" and the struggle against it. I deliberately want to ask you, because you haven't mentioned in your report that the Attorney General's Office has been found criminally today, in relation to the first deputy of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Why is that a resonant question? Because this body is actually called upon to combat abuses in the fight against corruption. And the question of Gizo Uklava, who is accused by the Attorney General's Office of suspected abuse, is very interesting, how much is this fact justified and what will be the logical conclusion of this story? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u108	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich! As a lawyer, you know very well that the prosecution has not yet charged anyone. At this stage. We're at a stage where we've received an application for a crime committed by a law firm, as well as from two of your fellow members of the national MPs. They claimed that the NABU had signed a contract with Mr. Uklava, knowing that he had not left Ukrainian citizenship. As you can see, this is contrary to current legislation. We're just getting started. [[B in m in s a l in]] From Georgian legislation, obviously. We're not blaming anyone at the moment, we're just checking out the application that came to us. Not to check it, as you understand, we have no right, it will be a service crime. This will be a calm, objective examination of the documents. I hope for the cooperation of both Mr. Sitnik and Mr. Chapter on this issue. There is no political motivation in this. As I understand it, the members of the Supreme Council, who have recently removed the mandate of the People's Deputies for dual citizenship, are in solidarity with the fact that only Ukrainian citizens can work in law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u109	Thank you. Koljelova Alona gives the floor to Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u110	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Attorney General, you've been holding this position for over a year. When you were appointed, you talked about reforming what you would do, and today you are talking about great success. I hope that your titanium work gave you time to look at the latest polls at the Razumkov Center. 1 percent of Ukrainian citizens trust the prosecution. I have a simple question for you. Why, despite your daily 20-time Facebook posts, your winning relationship, why don't people believe you? You don't believe you're reforming the D.A.? Do they not believe that truth and justice can be found in the prosecutor’s office? Don't they believe you personally? You work a year and people don't believe you. What must we do to help you to have people trust you and trust our prosecutor, who will eventually defend people’s rights?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u111	Thank you. First of all, a year ago, I was really talking from this rostrum about what I'm going to do. Today I said what I did. It's a different form of verb, Mr. Oleg. I made the final form of the verb. I have done this reform in the Public Prosecutor's Office, and so far all the requirements under the Public Prosecutor's Act, which treat me as Attorney General, have been fulfilled. Except for the one that stands before you: form a State Bureau of Investigation. As soon as it's formed, the investigation will go to this independent body, and this will be the final blow to the post-Soviet model of the prosecution. But it's no longer up to me, I've done all the work that comes out of the Procurator's Law. The other one. I don't give you any competition, no 20 posts on Facebook I never put on a day. There are also other dignitaries who spread lies, both in action and not in deed and truth. That's your question. I can't compete with you. What can I do for you? It's very simple. Pay all your taxes. And this will be the best contribution to the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u112	Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u114	Mr. Attorney General, the Ukrainian public is concerned about the improper operation of an electronic declaration site, so it depends, as NAMK members have said, on the automatic verification of declarations. So we want to ask you if your department is preparing to evaluate the activities of the developers of this site and to establish a reason for the resulting linkage of a tendering commission that has given priority to the development of a very serious electronic product, a questionable one-time firm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. This is really a question that is now being addressed by tens of thousands of people who are filling or trying to submit their information to the electronic declaration 10 times. In fact, there was an investigation in the Fiscal Service into the determination of the winner, and then on the work of creating an electronic declaration. There was no contest there. As is known, the Danish government has provided funds for the establishment of such a system for UNDP in Ukraine. This organization has identified the performer as a limited-liability society called Miranda. This has been established by the staff of the Fiscal Service under the legal direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The fact that the head of the TOV "Miranda" by one Mr. Novikov signed the treaty, more faithfully, commissioned the professor of the Kiev Police to perform these tasks, as well as his students, what they did, and the whole system was made by these individuals. Probably knowing that, Mr. Novikov planned to allocate and avoid taxes. In this way, the funds that were provided by the Miranda T.O. were spent through a fictitious firm in Estonia. I'm literally going to Estonia this Sunday to put a dot in this investigation. For me, this is a powerful example of how well - intentioned funds are being stolen from countries that want to help Ukraine. And most of all, it's the one who's accusing the whole authority of terrible corruption. In this case, we have to say, this is an example of the best minds of Ukrainian students and the worst responsibility of civil activists who are fighting corruption so loudly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u116	Pavelko Andry Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Chicken Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u119	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have two very simple questions, but very difficult at the same time. First. I thank you very much from all my countrymen for your principle and immediate response to the May 9 events in Dnieper, Auntie. I'm sure you'll lead the matter to a logical conclusion, all of you will get the verdicts you deserve. And second of all. There is such trouble – the Greeks, the Supreme Council of Justice. We all remember that the U.S. Attorney General's Office, along with the Ukrainian Security Service last year, "mothers", expensive cars, huge bribes, I suspect he was given a suspicion, why hasn't he been removed yet? What judge will be able to sentence him if he is now serving as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, the highest judicial authority? Yuri Vitaliovich, would you please tell us what the prospect is? Who prevents people from receiving laws, righteous judgments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u120	Thank you. The Department of Economics has completed its business of obtaining $500,000 because of fraud by a member of the High Council of Justice and its mediator, Citizen Sklar. The case is long finished, and 7 volumes, I want you to pay attention, 7 volumes of this case are meant to be read. At first Mr. Greek and Mr. Sklar wanted to pretend that Mr. Sklar was infallible and ordered psychiatric expertise. For several months this expertise, we were forced to conduct. The expert found that Mr. Sklar was completely condemned and well understood, for whom and how many thousands of dollars he was carrying. Now Mr. Greckiwski can't get to know the 7 volumes of the indictment for a few months. According to the law, which, by the way, was passed under me and Timoshenko, we have the right to limit our knowledge of matters. 7 volumes is 7 days, that's the practice in our courts, well, 10. Nevertheless, the Cave Court has denied us this concern, apparently for its own reasons. Today, we have again asked the Pecher Court about restrictions on the week of completion of the study of these materials. I would ask your political support, if you would, for your influence and authority in order for a member of the High Council of Justice to go to court, to the jury of the defendants, not to sit as a member of the High Council of Justice. I don't have any other options. I think for the state, too. With regard to the events in Dniper, I would like to ask, Mr. Head, to give me two minutes here, because this is an important circumstance.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u121	I think it's important to everyone and I'm adding two minutes to answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! On May 9, Dnipro had an unacceptable, shameful situation in which police officers acted with aunts to physically remove veterans of antiterrorist operations. No matter who the colors were, who the slogans were with, it is unacceptable when people in the presence of the police are brutally beaten by political aunts. At this point, we've kept not only these aunts, but there were only 250 of them, we've detained a few dozen of those who attacked the ATOs, we've found out who their organizer is. It was explained by the voluntary consent to cooperate with the investigation of one of those aunts, hopefully there will be several more. Now we know exactly who organized and instructed these aunts. And, Mr. Leader of the Opposition Block, I have bad news, they've all been instructed, organized and funded at your headquarters in Dnipropetrovska, personally by Mr. Wilcule and Mr. Kolesnik. At this point, we have a video of them all entering the office together, the glory of the BPP, because their office is next door and they have video cameras. We have court-sanctioned records of hearings that testify to the same thing. So from this point of view, I want to address you not yet because of the submission to the Supreme Council, because there are still legal steps to be taken. I'd like to ask you to help your deputies give true evidence for all of Ukraine and at least apologize for the fact that the aunts in your head are still blowing up. Second position. Dear colleagues, I would also like to say about her by addressing the absolute majority here in the hall of the people who are in favour of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u123	Please continue for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u124	When I reported it on Facebook, I wrote that it was possible and because the patriotic forces of Ukraine had moved out of the street on May 9. I didn't mean that they were self-inflicted from the detention of aunts, the inadmissibility, of course, of the question of muscle. But we put May 9th in the hands of the regents, the emperors, those who for millions of our grandfather's bodies trampled the road to the Kremlin, we just gave it to them. I call on everyone who respects Ukraine and on May 8 and 9, to go out with portraits, with yellow and blue flags and portraits of our heroes. I'm going out, for example, ready to go out with you, with my two grandparents standing under the Reichstag, and my son standing under the Sands, and we're going to say, these are our heroes. The action is called the Unbreakable Nation. We've been broken for ages, and no one can do it. We have someone to be proud of, and you'll see there'll be millions in this action. And those who take part in the fairy - tale action will simply remain a handful of sand above the waves of the Ukrainian ocean. Yeah, we're gonna win.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u125	Thank you. Shepherd Taras Timothyovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u126	Yuri Vitaliyovich, three years of war, and during your report you didn't mention a word about those dead boys and those criminal cases that were violated, and a year ago, you were in our Hall of Fame, in Parliament, and you spoke at an open meeting of the Committee of Safety and Defence about the events in Debalts. In fact, you made a certain commitment that by the end of last year the case would have been brought to trial, since the expertise had been completed, there would still be no obstacle to hearing the case before the court. The question of Debalts is also raised, and today society has no answers, yet what happened there, both in one boiler and another: both Debalts and Iloways. That's the first part of the question. And a second. We are now on the Anti-Corruption Committee in the working group on the activity of Ucrobanprom. And actually, the management of this concert says it's passed on dozens of cases, dozens of materials. Infringing dozens of cases, both the prosecution and the National Police, which unfortunately are also not being investigated, and in times of war, we think they would be quick to respond to such cases and bring these materials to trial. Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u127	Thank you. First of all, the causes of the Ilovian tragedy were fully investigated, and I reported this to the committee. The main reason behind the special military expertise was that the only reason we had a causal link to our losses in the Ilovian Cauldron was the aggression of the Russian Federation. And that's why on the basis of this expert conclusion, on the basis of tens of thousands, I emphasize, tens of thousands of expertise and papers we've submitted to the minister of defense of the Russian Shoehu Federation, as well as about 20 generals and admirals of the Russian army. In an orderly manner, the matter moves to draw them to responsibility in an orderly manner. I also informed you that this same expertise will evaluate the actions and regulations and the likely inaction and direction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in this situation. At this point, this expertise is going on, it's not finished, so we have no idea what we're doing. One more thing, I want to tell you, is that the moment of activity of the military prosecutor's office is extremely important. Many are dissatisfied with its activities, and this is clearly thousands, thousands of cases, including those of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who have committed crimes outside the war effort. I want to say that for me the principle of justice was the most important, and here is the most important, in particular, literally the first months of our activity, we closed the case for a change in the situation of several thousand Volin Corps fighters, 51st Corps, who were accused of acts that were not committed or committed because of the situation that had arisen. For me, this is exactly the example of the general's conviction that he gave the order that led to the death of several dozen Ukrainian paratroopers, and he sentenced to seven years, as you know, and the removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u128	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u129	and removing the charges from those who acted in the situation is an example of objectivity and justice. For me, a conviction, for example, "Tornado," whose court has defined as criminals who have committed terrible crimes against the civilian population, the conviction of the General of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the condemnation of more than two dozen citizens of the Russian Federation who have been publicly convicted in Ukraine, all of this is a chain of one -- justice in such a difficult situation that is happening there. With your permission, Mr. Head, if I hadn't been turned off, I would have read one thing that's important to publish. It's just a car.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u130	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u131	When MPs make fun of prosecutors in these trials, when they bring bottles of liquid shit, which they then throw at prosecutors from the cage, please remember what they are doing. Three thousand of them are about 400 civilians who have been tortured in the territory of the temporarily occupied territories, and 800 of them have been questioned. Do you understand what it is to question 800? No, you don't understand. In the towns of Slaviansk and Gorlovks, the leaders of the illegal military formations of Hirkin and Bezler organized real cataclysms. One of the witnesses witnessed the torture of the electric current, a burning electric fireman. People of Chechnya’s nationality beat up prisoners every night and shot every fifth one of them. Under threat of execution, prisoners were forced to walk in a replaced field, resulting in the death of some 80 people on mines. They hung captives and skinned them alive, forcing other captives to observe. At the risk of being shot, Witness X was forced to dismember and pack the bodies of the captives in the plastic bags. I don't want to read everything else, sexual crimes. You just don't know what the D.A. is up to. So please, prosecutors are different, good, and bad. Please, they get a small salary, they do a terrible job that will lead us, Ukraine, to victory over Moscow both physically and legally. Ilovyski and Debalce's business is on my control. There will be a need -- I'm ready to report back to the committee. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u132	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u133	Yuri Vitaliovich, I wanted to ask you three questions. First. What can you say about the shooting of the militia blockposts that had the 28th under Bykovna, February, March 4, 2014 -- the holiday blockpost, and in 2015 -- the blockage of the GAI in Bykovna. And the second question. What can you say about the people who were shot, the people who were blown up, specifically the Busina who died, and specifically the Sheremet? That's the first one. And the second. As the Attorney General on the Olympics for the protection of the rule of law, I would like to ask you if you don't think so. How you see the problem is that disclosure.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u134	Please finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u135	Crimes were found at 10 percent in Kiev and 30 percent in Ukraine. You see the problem here, and what's the solution today?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u136	Thank you. First of all, I'm not ready to say two blocks away right now, I'm afraid to make a mistake in this high hall, so I'm going to send you an official answer as a national deputy. If I'm not mistaken, the suspects are both detained, and they're even served with suspicions, but just wait for my official response. It's about Busini. Suspects after biological experiments have been transferred to the charge, and soon after reading the material, the case will go to court. As far as Mr. Sheremet is concerned. I really don't want those two names next door. As far as Mr. Sheremet is concerned. The trail's coming. He's being investigated by the National Police. We also put the best prosecutors there. I must admit, there was an error in this investigation. A specific mistake is that after removing 201 video cameras, another one, and it turns out, the most important camera hasn't been removed, that all this time it hasn't given much information to the investigation. Journalists have made these videos famous. Too bad it's all over the world, not just for investigators. But nevertheless, these films are very important for the investigation. As far as I know, the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has also acknowledged the error and is now trying to make up for the time spent. Now on the important issue of the crime situation. I've already mentioned that last year we saw a radical rise in crime. Of course, first of all, these are the effects of war and mass arms on the hands of the population, mass poverty, and mass unemployment. But including, from my point of view, the disorganization of the IMF's law enforcement system that took place last year. In December-month last year, I published statistics for the first time, and it was very bitter, but, like every pill of bitter, it was very useful. The new leadership of the National Police led by Mr. Knyazev began to restore clear vertical management systems. This made it possible for today to be 15 in all directions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u137	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u138	By 15-20 percent reduce these types of crimes. I'd like to show you on the screen if you're ready. The number of thefts last year (left) reached 312,000. This year, compared with the previous period of that year, it decreased by 20 percent. Why? From the top: 34,000 robbers were convicted. Robbery. Last year, this figure reached 27,000. That's just the accountants. It's a 30 percent drop now. Why? It is condemned, I emphasize, to condemn more than 4,000 people. Robbery: 893 more are convicted, 30 percent down. Same thing with car and apartment thefts. But what would I like to ask the national deputies? Please, I will. When I was a deputy, I ask you how he became a Henprocuror. He's asking as far as I know, Mr. Cosemiakin's head of profile committee and all the members of the committee. Please accept the Criminal Offences Act. This is 30 percent of the huge paper work of investigators and prosecutors that can be stopped. On minor occasions, when the law provides for a period of 2 years of deprivation of liberty, it should be translated into protocol, and the court should consider a determining measure of punishment. This will enable investigators and prosecutors to focus on real serious crimes. Please, I'm asking you on behalf of the entire law enforcement system. This law can stop paper work and improve the situation in our streets for our population.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u139	Thank you. And the last question of Kulichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u140	I ask you to pass the word to Janicki Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u141	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, some regions of Ukraine have recently found the situation of local prosecutors difficult. Thus, business and property continue to be seized as a result of the misdemeanors of the facts. On this point: how do you appreciate the work of the local prosecutors and do you cooperate with the procurator's office with an institution such as the Business Ombudsman's Council, which is also called upon to facilitate our business in Ukraine? And, of course, amber. A journalist recently published a photograph showing a high - voltage line of electricity coming from Barash to Kiev. There's pump holes in the field. If at least one of these resistances collapses, it's not just Kiev and the Plains nuclear station, it's a national security issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u142	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u143	In this regard. How does the Attorney General see the solution to the amber problem? And has the so - called Equinox mafia been completed?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u144	Answering from below to the mountain. Yes, the case of the amber mob led by the former first deputy district attorney was brought to trial. The investigation is complete. In this case, there are about one and a half dozen different prosecutorial officers, BSS, IMF, but according to experts, it has been able to blow up the amber mafia by about two thirds. We're still planning further action with our colleagues from the SSS and the IMF. As you know, almost every month we remove half a ton, then one and a half tons, then three tons of amber and, as you understand, the punitive methods are just a little bit of work. The majority should be made to the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to adopt a law to legalize this care, and that doesn't sound like the first time or even the tenth time. Please make that decision. Yes, there is a Cabinet ruling that proposes its own vision, but the Ukrainian Law on Burst Care with Further Environmental Restoration of Natural Balance would be extremely important. What's more, I seem to have said this figure here in the Supreme Council when I came for operational data on what was put on my desk, paid the bandits by amber diggers a day amounted to $100,000. If you multiply it times a year, it's the country's defense budget. We must do so; this Law on Nursing should be likened to the Law on Defence and Security of Ukraine. And, with your permission, another question is first, which was business. I'm not used to giving up what I want for what's real. I really have to say that law enforcement is still engaged in illegal criminal delinquency for any business interest. I've had to deal with this in person, not once, not twice. He personally closed up such cases and dismissed such woeful prosecutors, esbeachers and poor police officers. It's all like that. But, from my point of view, to stop this, it takes, again, a political decision. We have to finally create a financial investigation service to transfer to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u145	Please, just a minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u146	Where to transfer an economic investigation from the police, BSS. Finally, the business would have one structure, not five representatives, of the machine-chewing station. I'm sure the people's deputies should. Moreover, I would recommend considering the possibility of restoring the Ministry of Finance and Assembly in the form where the Deputy will be responsible for the customs, the Deputy Taxes, the Deputy, for the fiscal investigation service and the Deputy, for the expenses of the State budget. This is true in most European countries. Anyway, it's your political decision. But as a Henprocuror, I feel very strongly that after eliminating the tax police, they didn't offer anything. We need to create a single body of fiscal investigations that will stop the violence in pursuits and with machines for business. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u147	Thank you. So, colleagues, now is the time for faction questions. And whoever wants the factions to ask questions, please sign up. The sequence of the performances is recording. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u148	No, that's a question. We agreed on the rules at the beginning, that's a statement and a question to Henprocuror. Please sign up for the questions. Colleagues! I am. They're signing up now. I want to let you know. To ensure that there is no problem when the faction is speechless, they have made a separate department for factions of questions. If the faction did not sign up during the MPs ’ statements, it would be protected to ask questions. And that's why there's a separate chapter "for the factions," so that every faction that wants to sign up, but its deputies don't fall down, is protected by the right to ask questions. That's why I'm here. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Please, now, Shepherd Taras, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u149	Please hand it over to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u150	Questions to the Attorney General about the Constitutional Court case. As early as March 2014, immediately after Euramydan, this matter was violated. It's very simple. The judges of the Constitutional Court, including the acting judges of the Constitutional Court, gave Yanukovich dictatorial powers at the conclusion of the Henprocuratorial Office itself. This led to the collapse of the constitutional system, one of the most serious, most serious crimes. Why is there no suspicion in the matter so far? What to investigate when there is a decision by the judges of the Constitutional Court, are the signatures of the judges of the Constitutional Court and the same judges are in the Constitutional Court every day? What prevents us from investigating the matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u151	Thank you. That is the case, indeed, there is. But there is also an active standard of Ukrainian legislation that any judge is not responsible for his decision in criminal order. In addition, the first stage of the presentation, which was presented by several judges of the Constitutional Court, was withdrawn. At this point, the investigation focused on the legal assessment of the actions by handing over the suspicion and further indictments to the former Justice Minister, who, by his voluntary decision, made it through the printing and entry into the relevant register of the Constitution, which had not been in force in Ukraine at that time. If the investigation definitively establishes all the necessary evidence and all the expertise goes through, the case will also be brought to trial in the coming months. With regard to the judges themselves, perhaps in the course of interrogations by employees and heads of the Ministry of Justice, we will get new data. So far, there's not enough base to hand over any suspicions to the judges themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u152	From "The Will of the People" Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u153	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." Yuri Vitaliovich, two questions. First question. At which stage is the investigation into the fire trucks investigated by both the prosecution and the B.S.A., and so on. As far as I know, there's already been some expertise. That's the first question. And the second. I wanted to make an application for a crime. That the Chief of the General Staff had made a decision on his own to put minomets into service was a result of the deaths of the fighters. Please conduct an investigation. Thank you. I'll give you the materials now.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u154	Thank you. I'm not used to stress the positives of my personal life at all. But I can say that I have come to the office of Attorney General not to persecute those I like or dislike. Whatever the case, the director of one of the factions who so often mentions my name on all possible broadcasts, but in the case of the fire trucks associated with him by the individual national deputies, the expert determined that there was no crime and the case was closed. I'm not Pschenka, I'm not chasing political enemies or opponents, or even those I have a different attitude toward. We make decisions objectively, don't we, Fatherland? It was the same with a few things on the "Fatherland" electronic declaration, the same thing with the "National Front", the same thing with the Radical Party and, by the way, in your case, Mr. Sergei. I still have my prison circle on my desk, and it helps me to remember that my decision should be legal and reasonable. In this case, there is no crime scene for fire trucks. With respect to your statement about the actions of Chief Genstab, let's study separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u155	Thank you. From the People's Front, Amazanov Andri Vitaliyovich passes the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u156	Yuri Vialiyovich, good afternoon. I have two questions. I believe that, along with one of the main achievements you've made, you've said this violation and the conduct of the opposing case-law over Yanukovic. I believe that one of the main achievements is the joint work and its result of the People's Front team, the Attorney-General's Office, the National Security Council and the defence, so that Janukovich's money, which was arrested more than two years ago, would finally be returned to the budget. Please tell me, do you support our initiative to have the Special Confiscation Act passed in this session room? And the money that will then be found in Yanukovich's gang and other unscrupulous officials should be returned to the budget? And the second question. You've given very interesting statistics that 142 million dollars a day was returned to the state by the Attorney General's Office. Sadly, the newly created NABU has returned only 100 million in a year of work. But please state the statistics if you have them regarding the increase in crime. Because there are a lot of critics here.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u157	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u158	Many critics in this rostrum claim that the reform of the National Police has taken place and there is only an increase, a catastrophic increase in crime. Please tell me, what is the real picture of crime in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u159	Thank you. I already answered about the crime situation and showed the diagrams. Yes, I believe that the restoration of the management verticals of the National Police with Mr. Knyazev's arrival to this post, combined with the usefulness of the police reform initiated by Mrs. Zguladze and Mrs. Decanodze, is producing its results. I'll say, the situation on the streets is very difficult, very difficult, thousands of crimes are committed every day. For your information, the Attorney General's Office is running a trial run for one million 300,000 criminal conducts. These are all criminal manifestations in Ukraine. But because of the smooth work, the reinstatement of governance, the situation began to improve in the first quarter of the fall on all crimes, robbery, robbery, apartment thefts, murders, car thefts, and so forth, minus 20, minus 30 percent. I want to say once again, I was skeptical about this at first, we've sent the inspection teams to all of Kiev's districts and several areas, the falsification of the statistics has not been detected, there are literally two, three hidden cases. But in principle, statistics show that the efforts of the new leadership of the National Police have been successful. Now, about the special confiscations. Dear friends, I'd like to show you an interesting document, it came from the State Treasury. The deputy head of the Treasury is answering my question. It's just that I'm going to read it now to make us realize that we've been through this with you. The Treasury Department has processed your address and reports that on the sole treasury account of 27.02.2014 (all remember this day, 27.02.2014, the appointment of Mr. Yatzenuk as First Prime Minister after Maidan) was held at 108 thousand 133 bracelets of 65 copies. All over the country. 108.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u160	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u161	All over the country. In the year 22.05.2017, despite the criticism and mistrust of certain actors, 46 billion, 258 million, 986 thousand, 287 dollars, were accounted for through concerted activities in the field of confiscation. Plus another $200 million in bonds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u162	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u163	This means that the country today received the money back from the Mob of Janukovic. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you as a person who has put a lot of energy into doing this as a person who is responsible for the prosecutors who are at risk. and the judge who risked his life did so. Please, just you and no one else, only you have to figure out where this will go. And I beg you, they must go to a simple Ukrainian, to medicine, to transport, to a simple soldier, to live in a normal barracks, and an officer to live in a normal dormitory. Three, up to four, national programs, you are personally, because you represent the people of Ukraine. And make sure that this December a simple man and a simple soldier can feel the concrete result of this work. We're not afraid to fight the Mafia at night, but we're afraid that this money will be sprayed all over Ukraine again and they'll forget even where they were sharing, as was the case with millions of returns during the reprivatization. We have to concentrate these costs on the common people. Reform should not be a negative symbol, but a positive symbol. And it will be glory for all of you, I am not going to pursue glory. Let's make our people's lives better at the expense of Yanukovich, who robbed every Ukrainian. I'm asking you to make this historic decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u164	Colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. And since the discussion has taken place, I would like to point out to you that, in accordance with article 240(5) of the Rules of Procedure, the following is stated: "The consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of the report, the information of the official person mentioned in part one of this article, includes a report or a statement, up to 20 minutes, answers to questions from national deputies, within 20 minutes, discussion of a report, report or information, if the Supreme Council decides on such a discussion," i.e. 226 votes. But realizing that 20 minutes would be too short for questions, we agreed at the beginning that we're spending an hour, colleagues, and we've been talking for over an hour. I think that's justice and openness in our discussion. And so, colleagues, right now, I'm going to point out four more questions from factions. I'm just asking to be concise, I can only go on for 15 minutes. Four questions and two minutes are the answers, it might take a little bit longer, and so I'm asking you to be a little bit more concise in the answers as well. Now, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, please. Passing it to Ivan Krulk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u165	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! We welcome the efforts you are making to ensure that corrupters are in prison and, indeed, that we need a court, a court that will make fair decisions about corrupters and will decide matters. That's why, I want to tell you that by the Law that was passed in this Hall on the judiciary and the status of judges, the 31st article, this law was passed by the President of Ukraine, created by the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, it was already created. A group of national MPs and I belong to this group of national MPs, passed a law for this Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to run, to fill it with real meaning. The problem is why this law is "torped" because we have made such an order of selection of these judges, so that they are really independent so that they can't be put in place by telephone, that's what's the key problem, why this law doesn't go. So I'm asking you, as Attorney General, if you really want the corrupts to sit in jail just like we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u166	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u167	Help us to have this law considered in Parliament, call upon the faction whose head you have been to put this law in order of the day, and we will accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the Attorney-General's business to determine which law is better. I come out of simple practical thinking, to create any institution from scratch means, at least, for a year to take its organizational action, it showed both the NAB, and any other institution that's created from scratch. I don't deny that you can vote your law. As far as I know, it's in one of the committees that defined it as unconstitutional, I can't give it an assessment, it's your job, it's your job, it's not mine. I'm just, to the extent that I'm practical, proposing to create this court in an existing criminal court, like a chamber. The Criminal Court already has a Chamber of Sexual Crimes, a Chamber of Juvenile Justice, other Chambers, there may also be a Chamber of Corruption of Category "A," I mean, a case of corruption of category "A," and a selection of new judges of the method you suggest. I'm two-handed for it, so it's definitely new judges who've passed the tests and checked the weight of influential public organizations. But let's do this, because discussions are going on forever, and thousands of things are going on, and that's why society doesn't trust all of us. We are all authorities, regardless of who bears the office name, the MP or the Attorney General, or the President or the Prime Minister, and together we are to create a justice zone. I think it's faster, just for that reason, to do it on the basis of an existing institution. You think otherwise, vote differently, but create this court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u169	Thank you. I want to inform you that no decision has yet been taken by the committee under the bill, no decision. This is also the reason that he cannot be in order of the day. So, from the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u170	Yuri Vitaliyovich, I want to return to the resonant crime that took place at the Supreme Council on August 15, 2015, which was witnessed by virtually everyone in the room, including you, you were then a deputy. At the time of the demolition of the grenade, four of the Nazis died, who virtually protected us. Then a film was shown in the Council, where he was suspected, showed how he threw a grenade, and we were all waiting for the speedy verdict of the perpetrator who killed those people. If this is not the secret of the investigation, please tell us at what stage is the investigation of the attack and when the charges will be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u171	Thank you and I'll report. The investigation is complete. The defense is familiar with the materials of the investigation. This means that following article 290, the case will go to court. When the material is finished, the case will go to court. The investigation did its job. The only few figures singled out are the other charges that require more investigation to ensure that the case does not continue, and those who have completed the investigation are referred to the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u172	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lensky passes the word to Oleg Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u173	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Attorney General, in the position you hold you have demonstrated in a year that has passed: irresponsibility, political engagement, not professionalism, prejudice and personal political interest. That's why 99 percent of Ukrainians don't trust you, which is why we don't trust you and our faction in full signed for your resignation. And finally, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich, when you recommend me, or someone else, to be responsible for some crimes, I recommend that you look at yourself carefully in the mirror.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u174	Thank you, Mr. Faction's head, for making critical remarks, for signing up in full stock, God forbid this warehouse should be reduced in the near future. That's why there's opposition. That's why there's opposition to criticizing power.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u175	Colleagues, please, I'm asking you, on both sides, to endure ethics in discussion and in conversation, colleagues. The final question is that Arjev Vladimir Igorovich conveys the word to the head of the faction of Arthur Gerasimov. Please, last question from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to express my opinion on the Peter Dusty Block. We are not ashamed that a year ago we were delegating to the office of Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. And by the performance criteria, both by the criteria of financial efficiency, and by the criteria of openness and cooperation with the Supreme Council, we see great real steps forward in the work of the GPA. By the way, how does it work without legal education? They didn't break the wood, how many people were afraid? But the serious question is, a few months after you arrived at the H.I.U., you separated the well-known Department of Horbatuk, who was investigating the Mayan case. How do you view this decision today? Was it right or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u177	Thank you. With your permission, Arthur, I'm still standing by with my colleague, the head of the Radical Party, who's already running to tell me about my threats, and I'm asking God that the faction of radicals doesn't get smaller because that's life. He constantly asks the MP himself to remove that from one of his deputies, then from his second MP, then from his third MP the MP’s intrusiveness, even to remove him from the deputies, well, so he formed a faction. I'm just asking God that it doesn't shrink because opposition in this country is necessary. Now, about your question. Now, about your question. I'm not inclined to joke about any part of the U.K. Attorney General's office, it's a very difficult and responsible position to play with. Yeah, I don't have legal education, it's true. Sometimes I have to admit my mistakes. Too bad there's no "radical" faction, because they've been describing for so long what a bastard I am. I prepared the submission for Lozov, and now, he said, he didn't give it -- so did the bastard. Yes, I thought the application was ready, and all three of the leaders who prepared it told me. However, the Legal Department has reported that there is insufficient evidence in the submission of section 368 of the Illicit Enrichment 2 of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Yeah, I've been working on this decision longer, based on people with a hundred percent legal experience. But, nevertheless, political will and energy are enough for me to force lawyers to work legally, but quickly. That's the point. I think that the next Henprocurorate will be with legal education, because I'm going to break down a criminal, politicized GPU machine and make it a normal European institution, where every prosecutor and investigator will not feel any fear of what they have to do by law. And the last. There's not a minute of response for the Maidan department. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u178	Add one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u179	Here someone was complaining about what they said, "you've done more and the NABA has brought fewer millions." Don't face the guards with your foreheads. We all have to work together. One of my basic decisions in this position is that there will be no gnawing between the departments. We are one team: the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the Tax Administration and generally all other state institutions, and, of course, the Supreme Council. Yeah, I'm dividing the department into one or two, and that's my internal decision. Effectiveness is because this one, the new department, has completed the investigation and transferred Janukovic, Arbusov, Kolobov, Stavitsky and so on and so forth. I count that I did the right thing. However, this does not mean any mistrust for other workers. This does not rule out what. my objective attitude toward merit. The only thing I'm relying on is that I don't believe in prosecutors who give a lot of interviews.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u180	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u181	I don't believe in prosecutors who give a lot of interviews. I believe and support those who bring many cases to trial. That's my principle of framework. Finally, with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u182	Yuri Vitaliovich, one second. It's just that one of the groups didn't sign up, and everyone's rights are protected. I will, with your permission, give you another answer, and you'll be in custody by then. Could that be so, Yuri Vitaliovich? Please, Nichiporenko, one minute, Rebirth. And then there'll be a closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u183	Good afternoon, Yuri Vitaliovich! The question has no political subtext, it has only a professional subtext. Tell me, please, that you have a self - security service as well as any kind of force structure. Today, in connection with what happened. Well, there's a lot of cases going on with those or other questions, and that's where the pay is in envelopes and not the people in the workplaces, and there's a lot of cases, I know, the Lviv region of Borislav region, other areas -- where there's a simple appeal to the District Attorney's Office, that there's some sort of thing going on in this business. The D.A. registers the lead, but the person who wrote this statement doesn't exist at all. You know what I mean? So that means that in a competitive fight, it's just from a person who doesn't exist, someone can write anything, and the prosecution registers criminal conduct. It's already starting to pick up mass traffic. Please tell me how.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u184	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u185	How do they cope? And in fact, do you think it's okay if you're not going anonymous because you're not looking at an anonymous person, you're looking at a person who doesn't exist at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u186	Thank you. The question is important. On the other hand, not registering is the wrong way out. We're getting a statement. There's a name, a signature. The application has to be registered, otherwise it's the way to the next game as a percentage and the results are drawn. I think the first step in this case is to check the applicant. It's a face-to-face with him. If it's not, of course, it's wrong, and I'm willing to react if you send the right information. Another question. Can we fight this? In each case, there is an individual approach. That's why I trust the 25 prosecutors in the area to keep an eye on it. I want to point out that only a third of the claims made remain in criminal conduct, which is actually being investigated. So, yeah, that's the situation. But it's not some unique Ukrainian, all over the world. I've just been to Romania, and they're also, Romania is running a million 800,000 runs, and about 60 percent of the applications are also coming out. So we're quietly registering everything, but we're still doing it by law: checking the applicant, the actual circumstances, the proper follow-up, the expertise, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u187	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u188	If that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u189	Yes, please, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u190	Dear National Deputies! As you can see, I've had enough to worry about today. I'll be honest with you, not because I was afraid of criticism, but because it's happening, and I admit there are some mistakes. I know exactly what I am to be proud of for the work of my subjects, but of course there are human experiences. Nevertheless, when he stood on that rostrum, he felt sufficient peace. I feel like I'm surrounded by the same-minded people. In the final words of today’s speech and report, I would like to thank the national deputies of all factions. All those who wrote me 10,000 MPs, all those who called, all the hundreds who came to the reception, all those who on endless televisions called me all possible, well, sometimes impossible epithets. I'm really anxious about this, but it's a normal natural process in a democratic country. However, I would like to ask you one thing: to respect the Attorney General's Office as an institution for specific achievements. Criticize, change, demand, but please let us treat this country’s institutions as pride. You've assigned me to this position, distinguished national deputies, and I'm working with you for common Ukrainian interests. And I really hope that the result of today's day is not to drag the rope – Lucenko did more or did less, put him two or twelve. The result will be further joint work on coping with corruption and crime in our famous country. Together we can do it, together we can do it. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-24-m0.u191	Thank you for the report, Yuri Vitaliovich. Question completed. The information is being taken into account. I'd like to report that there's an exhibit on the third floor of "The World." which is organized by the Kharkiv Children's Social Theatre "Timur", which celebrated its 40th anniversary. And the organizers are very much asking that the national deputies be able to come and see the exhibition on the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you. I wish everyone good work on the committees. And tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., please come to the session room without delay.
