ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Please take up jobs, registration will take place. So, colleagues, please hold the registration. [[10:06:10]] 351 in favour, registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say a few words about the latest events that have taken place in the state. Colleagues, attention, please! Opening of the sitting, the morning session. My colleagues, I would like to say that there have been recent events in the Ukrainian State that could lead to the dispersion of the Ukrainian state inside. And this is at a time when Ukraine is fighting a Russian aggressor. Many of the cases we see are the destruction of the Ukrainian institutions of power in which war is going on. Tomorrow we will have a ceremony in this room to commemorate the century of the beginning of the Ukrainian revolution. And I'd like to remind everyone that, in fact, the destruction of the institutions of power, the mutual conflict between Ukrainian politicians of the time led to the loss of Ukrainian statehood, and then it led to the Holocaust, and then they led to mass repression. In times of war there must never be unity and there must be an understanding of the challenges we face. Therefore, I find it unacceptable that people who have the mandate of a national deputy attack Ukrainian law enforcement officials and the Ukrainian police using this inviolability. Together we created this police force, together we were proud of the creation of our new police force, and when they stand on the ATO blockades and carry out their duties, no one has the right to attack them. I'll tell you that I've spent a lot of time in the ATO zone and as a national MP and as the secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, but I've always been able on the stand to allow law enforcement to check my car and I've always been proud of the fact that our law is one for everyone. Therefore, I find it unacceptable that the Ukrainian National MP, using his mandate, can attack our police officers, insult them, take up their weapons, and I think that such facts are not only humiliating the Ukrainian Parliament and not just the people's deputies, but they are humiliating the entire Ukrainian state. As a result of those events yesterday, there were incidents in Parliament when I attended the National Security and Defence Council. I want to say that all the incidents will be investigated, and I will have the task of investigating them, and I will definitely inform both the heads of factions and the deputies. I held two factions-heads meetings and held a meeting with committee heads, and we agreed that today the Ukrainian Parliament should show society quality and systemic work. Today, we have the first draft of a bill that envisions 75 percent of the Ukrainian language on television. That's why I'm calling everyone on a consolidated system of work. I said, and I emphasize, I will not allow the opposition in Parliament, Parliament must work, Parliament must make decisions, and I am confident that today we will all show Parliament's ability to work systematically, work in favour of the Ukrainian State and in favour of Ukraine. Thank you. So, colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies: Valery Mikolaiovich Davidenko and Alexia Mikolaiovich Kirichenko. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] I want to make one more point, the first question today is draft Law 5313, then the National Security and Defence Unit, the questions that the Committee has put forward. By the way, the agenda hasn't changed since last Thursday. The second block is housing and utility. So I call on everyone to work in a systematic, high-quality and fast way. At the beginning of the session, although the faction heads and I agreed that we didn't make the presentations, two factions filed for recess. They agree to replace it with a performance. That's why. These are the factions of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth, two groups. Three minutes to make a statement from the rostrum and then move on to the first draft of the law. Bondar. The group has the same right as the faction, Oleg Valeriyovich, has the same connection. Please, Yuri Boyko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, I think that every national MP present in this room may ask himself why Parliament lost its trust in society in two and a half years of existence; why Parliament is today a champion of untrust on the part of Ukrainian citizens at the beginning. The answer is obvious: Since Parliament began to live separately from the country, Parliament began to pursue its own political ambitions, regardless of what people needed. And for the last six months, as a result of Parliamentary Speaker's position, he's turned into an untrustworthy champion, bypassing even the government of Ukraine, which before that had the most negative rating. As an example, yesterday was, in our view, a very important agenda. Five bills have been proposed for consideration, awaiting 1 million 700,000 displaced persons who have lost everything in their lives as a result of the military conflict and have begun to live from scratch. This was not discussed yesterday, and we expected that today these laws that await people will be discussed in Parliament. Unfortunately, we see once again political games and political laws that have nothing to do with what people really need, what they expect from the Ukrainian Parliament. So our faction has made a decision: until we consider the authorship laws not only of our faction, but also of others who refer to the displaced, which relate to the real support of the population, we will not vote and vote for political things that may be of interest to the political forces, but have nothing to do with the real needs of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u3	Since there was an appeal to me, I want to say that it was a little strange to hear about the mistrust of the Janukovich environment, which had destroyed and killed people in Maidan. [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's why I'm asking you to hold back from your political evaluations and not give you a job grade in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, let's move on to a question that may be very frightening to some in the hall, but it's still very important. Because I'm going to remind you, when we adopted the issue of quotas on TV as a result of the discussions, we heard a lot of Ukrainian songs, a lot of Ukrainian performers, we just saw the renaissance and renaissance of the Ukrainian song. Today, we have the same ability to do the same on Ukrainian television. So I'm announcing the first draft of the Law of Order of the Day to amend some of Ukraine's laws on audiovisual (electronic) media (number 5313). And I'm asking my colleagues to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and please support, we vote. [[10:15:25]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. "The nations are not dying of a heart attack. The nations die when they are deprived of their language," and this problem is relevant even in the early 19th century, said our great contemporary Lena Costenko. I'll tell you more. Regrettably, after three years of the Ukrainian Dignity and European Course Revolution and 25 years of Ukrainian Independence, Ukrainian television unfortunately remains Russian. We did quite a lot in this room to make Ukrainian television. We've got Russian information product out of the European quota and you can see a lot of programs today that don't go well with Russian programs. You don't see so many Russian actors on Ukrainian television today. But the next step that we can take today to make Ukrainian television even more Ukrainian is to adopt a law on 75 percent of Ukrainian as a minimum of Ukrainian on television. I actually asked the question like that. It is humiliating to say that Ukrainian language should be present at least 75 percent. Ukrainian television should be both Ukrainian and Ukrainian. We can talk about the limited number of languages of other national minorities living in Ukraine. And that's 25 percent. This bill, this law, if we're going to adopt it with you, I very much hope that we're going to make this move, it's transitional in fact. Because you know that we have a lot of language laws, government languages in Ukraine. And this is important today to accept and affirm that the main language in Ukraine is the Ukrainian language. And that's going to apply to both the spheres of culture and the information sphere. But as a transitional stage for television production.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u5	Colleagues, the reporter, has two minutes, both from the author and from the committee. I mean, two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u6	Appropriately today, this transition phase can provide for a series of technological steps that will allow our producers of Ukrainian media products not to actually suffer, but to gain preferences. You and I, when we introduced quotas for the Ukrainian song, we all said it wouldn't work. Today it's not just working for the consumer, it's developing Ukrainian culture. The singers, the performers, the recording studios, they all say in one voice, there was never such a demand, there was never such a queue, there was never such a possibility for the development of Ukrainian culture as today. This law will create even more suitable conditions. You know, in closing, I'll say one thing. First of all, when we celebrated the anniversary of Shevchenk's birthday, everyone said a lot of patriotic phrases. I am very grateful for the support and support of the President of Ukraine, who stressed the need for, in fact, the validation of the rights of the Ukrainian language on television. Because I want to tell you one number: some TV channels today speak 90 percent Russian, although they're called Ukrainian TV channels. So according to this step that we can take today, it's really going to be a historic step that's going to be extremely noticeable. Tomorrow we will be here in this room to have a special meeting, a special session until the century of the Central Council. Perhaps it is worth recalling the history of 20th - century Ukraine and not repeating mistakes, taking advantage of opportunities, and building a Ukrainian state. Hopefully we'll take this step today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction will undoubtedly support and support all initiatives that promote the use and use of State language in various areas of social and political life. And this bill is going to be supported by our faction, the Self-Help faction, too. I have to agree with my colleague who said that this bill and this law, if adopted after the second reading, can only be applied for a transitional period until the Supreme Council considers a public draft of a law that has been supported and signed by representatives of virtually all democratic factions of Parliament, the draft Law 5670 on State Language in Ukraine. Now, with regard to the comments to this draft law that we are currently discussing. The project has a model: the leader speaks Ukrainian, guests and music, any other language. Most interestingly, such a transmission would be considered a national language. We suggest that only the actual use of the national language of transmission be included in the quota, especially with regard to news programs that are the most rated, most watched, listened to by Ukrainian citizens. With regard to the powers of the National Security and Defence Council, which the law proposes to extend. This does not correspond to the legal nature of this body, so this rule should be removed. With regard to changes in the Innovation System Act. It is evident that the Law on the Innomination System extends to informing Ukrainians abroad, as well as to an audience in temporarily occupied territories and territories in which a state of emergency has been established. Therefore, a portion of the national language must be defined. This fraction can be discussed as much as it should be, but amendments to the Act on the Innovation System are made using a particle.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u10	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u11	And the level of this piece should be the subject of discussion. Another very important observation. In our opinion, it is unacceptable to change the law of Kiwalova Koleschenka. Because by making changes to this law, we are actually legitimizing it. As for the conflict between the Television Act and the Law of Kiwalov-Keleznick, in the event of disagreement between the standards issued by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u12	Come on, 10 seconds, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u13	applies an act adopted later, even if the earlier act has not ceased to be valid. So we support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u15	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska will support this bill in the first reading, which we believe will not only protect but also approve Ukrainian language on Ukrainian television. But I would like to pay attention to a few things that are happening in this area. What is it? Well, let's say that if we're talking about what's even happening here, in this room, when the open agent of the Kremlin, the representative of the Kremlin, comes out to this rostrum, speaks a very good Ukrainian language, specifically provokes and speaks the occupying language. He provokes him to be beaten to make his ratings, and this person was the vice-premier, she speaks a great Ukrainian language, but she provokes, deliberately provokes, opposition. The same is true in the media: Lvochkin – "Inter", "Strana.hua" and so on – spread fairies, spread anti-Ukrainian provocations. So the Radical Party faction demands that we raise the question at the highest level about the nationalization of the Inter Channel, about the closure of sites that distribute enemy information, so that we don't let the Moscow Zosuls and the Kremlin Horses destroy the Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u16	From Peter Poshenko's Block, Soloj Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u17	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I think that every Ukrainian today feels the positive effect that we've had as a result of the adoption of the law that introduced the Ukrainian language in radio frequency, and we see the increase in the presence of Ukrainian songs, and the increased motivation of Ukrainians, actually, to listen to Ukrainian songs on Ukrainian radio. But when it comes to this law, I want to say that we can't make half the decisions, because the norm of this law is that at the national level we leave a quota of 25 percent to make speech in a language other than English. I think it's a completely half-solution. We have the only national language in the Constitution, Ukrainian. If we're talking about the national level, at the national level, we have to provide 100 percent of the language in Ukrainian. And this decision, unfortunately, is not complete. And that's why I'm asking you to accept 100 percent at national level to ensure that you can speak in Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u18	From "The Fatherland" Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Condrat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will have to support the project, because we are convinced that only by mandatory legislative quota will we return the Ukrainian language to television. Moreover, we must not only introduce direct quotas, but we must take direct care of the financing of Ukrainian cinemas and series, which was envisaged, in particular, by the Film Act, of the support of cinema, which was voted by our Parliament, but was unfortunately committed by the President. We should soon return to its consideration and directly support the production of a Ukrainian - language, Ukrainian - language television product. In the meantime, we are in favour of Bill 5313 on increasing Ukrainian language on television. And as one of the authors of the Radio Language Quota Act, I can safely say that this will lead to tangible positive changes in air. This suggests a quota of 75 percent of Ukrainian for national and 50 percent for regional channels, but a quota is mandatory for all, both for air - speaking and for satellite, and for cable. This 75 percent quota applies to all, without exception, information and news. The authors of this law have explicitly predicted that it is allowed to use without duplication or sounding any works, performances by Crimean Tatar performers. Instead, all foreign broadcasts, TV shows, and movies should certainly be duplicated and sounded in Ukrainian. This rule directly applies to the Russian product. The law proposes making clear time limits for the proposed quota to be carried out in the cancer and evening premiums. The "Fatherland" faction will support this bill in the first reading, based on the basis of a balanced initiative that will return the Ukrainian language to television after the second reading. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u20	Colleagues, now, they're going to finish the factions, and then I'm going to give it to the deputies. I'll give it to the factions first. From the Opposition Block, Schuffrich Nestor. Then I'll give it to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill that was put into the agenda today, I believe, and our faction is convinced that it is very timeless and inappropriate. Three years ago, a language law was passed in this room. We all know the consequences of this vote, even though this law is still in force today. What are we doing today? Shall we try to do it? Today, we are interfering with the economic activities of the owners and are provoking a new confrontation. And now, about what Janukovic was talking about, there was a hole in Arbusov's office, and now you're telling us who's here, in Ukraine, about Yanukovic? Make sure that people live as they did in Yanukovich’s day, not as poor as you do six times! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u22	Colleagues, now I'll give you my word. Chubarov, Krivenko, Illenka. Colleagues, let's just not drag. Please, Chubarov, two minutes too.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! As Crimean Tatars, we did not need special laws when, by organizing our television in 2007, we, on our own initiative, introduced special quotas for Ukrainian national language. We were the first to speak three languages in Crimea, our native and also our national Ukrainian. As far as this law is concerned. In our completely justified efforts to fortify, expand, and expand Ukrainian national language, we can strike a devastating blow in Crimea, the language of the Crimea people. And since the draft under consideration today will be voted on in the first reading, I call on the committee to literally create a working group today, according to the members of the Supreme Council, to write down standards that would make it impossible to destroy, to reduce the Crimean Tatar language in the electronic media. This working group also has to make changes to the law that we approved on June 16, last year, regulating radio and radio speaking. Thus, we strengthen Ukrainian national language and provide opportunities for the preservation and development of the root language of Ukraine’s Crimean Tatar people. And by the way, this term that "in the language of the indigenous peoples" should also be included in the text of this law. In the first reading, a vote can be taken. But we're working on the second reading and we're balancing. We balance the standards that will suit the interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u24	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u25	We clearly write down standards that enable the strengthening of the Ukrainian language as a national language and that preserve the languages of the indigenous peoples of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u27	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear TV setters! Once again, I want to use this high rostrum to explain to people the pragmatic role of language and how to convey the importance of Ukrainian language to our society. I've Ukrainianized dozens, if not hundreds of people, simply by explaining to them that after birth, any person becomes either French or Japanese or Russian or Ukrainian on the basis of four factors: parental education, culture, blood, genetics and energy of the land, in which the mixture is not known. The basic two are parental education and culture, the environment that surrounds it. Any language, language is the basis of national culture. National culture is the basis of the desire to have a nation that develops, promotes and makes the medium of this culture comfortable. When a language is passed on, a person becomes a medium and a customer of another culture and as a result is a customer of another state. Or it becomes a cosmopolitan and it's the same place to live, the main criterion for choosing a place to live is ecology, income, security, it becomes a consumer. Hence, it is vital to understand why our northern enemy invests tens and hundreds of millions of dollars in the development of his language. And why these people, many of them then became contracting another state, contracting another state car in our territory and calling for Russian peace here. Many of the older generation are Russian - speaking, and I know hundreds and thousands of patriots of Russian - speaking and Ukrainian nationalists who are Russian - speaking, from other sources, who have taken Ukraine. But it is vital to explain why Israel, why Poland, why France, why Germany defend their language? Because they understand that language is the basis for ordering their state and their identity. And to this day, even those who have come to the Attire are gradually passing on to the Ukrainian language. Two motorists in the Supreme Council were the authors of the Language Law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u28	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u29	As we were frightened, you know, remember how much I waved, 700 performers, thanking the music, thanking everyone, everything works fine. And look at all of Mr. Malkovich's petitions for the Shevchenk Prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u30	Colleagues, there's a lot of hands, let me tell you an exhaustive list: Illenko, Skorik, hasn't delivered the People's Front yet, Victor Sumar. No, no, I'm a sequence, not now. All right, let's finish the discussion and get to the decision-making process. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u31	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, we must surely vote in favour of this law now. And we need to understand that it's not even a culture issue or a humanitarian issue anymore -- it's a matter of national security. But, you know, I'd like to remind you of one simple thing: we still have a formal law in force today, the disgraceful law of the "KK" of Janukovic times, which was anti-constitutionally extended in the Supreme Council back in 2012. There was a language field against this law. Immediately after the victory of the Dignity Revolution, this shameful law was repealed by the Supreme Council, and, unfortunately, the repeal of this law was not signed, and an entirely abnormal legal coalition arose. For several years, the Constitutional Court did not wish to consider the submission of national deputies in order to recognize this shameful law, the Russians ’, the anti - Ukrainian law, as unconstitutional. Only recently did the Constitutional Court begin to do so, according to our insistence, but this is still a long case. I'm addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council: let's finally repeal this disgraceful law, let's adopt here in the Supreme Council, that law that will protect Ukrainian language today, and let's make sure that this issue is finally settled in Ukraine. Because we understand that where there was the biggest Russians, where there was almost no Ukrainian language, there was war and occupation today. Where there is a Ukrainian language, Putin will not pass. Where there is a Ukrainian language, there are Russian tanks of powerlessness. Where the Ukrainian language is, there will be the Ukrainian world and our victory. It's our job to make Ukraine speak our native Ukrainian language. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u32	Thank you. Skork. And then there's Sumar. Speed, then Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u33	People's MP Skorik, faction of the Opposition Block. The honourable MPs, the citizens of Ukraine, the consideration of this bill, 5313, once again proves that the law has repeatedly been considered by the authorities to divert the attention of society from the complete collapse of the country, from the fact that it is not concerned with peace, the establishment of peace in Donbass, from the fact that it is not concerned with social protection of the population, the restoration of the economy. I believe that the consideration of this bill will lead to additional tensions in society, and I believe that we, as Ukrainian national deputies, should take care to unite society. In Parliament, I represent the faction of the Opposition Block and the native Odessa region. So I can say that there are 133 nations and nationalities in the Odessa region. I can say that the consideration of this bill violates the European language paper ratified by Ukraine. I can tell you that we have to understand that Ukrainian citizens are the bearers of all languages that are today in Ukraine, and if a person speaks or thinks not in Ukrainian, that doesn't mean that he loves Ukraine less, that he's the less patriotic of his own state. So I urge you not to support this bill in any way and to take it out of consideration at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u34	Colleagues, this is your last gig. Then we'll go to the vote, before we make a decision. That's why I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to inform the National Deputies that in two minutes there will be a decision-making process, and the factions' heads will be asked to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u35	The committee's decision. To suggest to the Supreme Council that this bill be approved as a basis for the first reading. Then we're going to create a working group, as suggested here, and I'm sure we're going to make this bill even stronger, believe me, and even more tangible. Crimecatarian language is already included in the bill in the Ukrainian language quota, and we'll think about more mechanisms how we can protect Crimean Tatar language today in Ukraine. But I want to say here about "untimely" and "unreasonably" as one of our colleagues spoke on this platform. So I want to tell you that sometime in Yanukovich's time it was appropriate to appoint a Russian Defense Minister who destroyed the Ukrainian army and undermined the Ukrainians' security, opening the door to a Russian aggressor in his country. It has been timeless and inappropriate for you to build a strong Ukrainian state for 25 years. Today, I want to tell you, it is very timely and appropriate to see Ukraine today a little bit more than the interests of its party bosses and financiers, and the interests of the state that has solved the war against Ukraine. Today, it is inconvenient to lobby the Russian interest from this high rostrum. Because the Russian language on TV is Russia's interest!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u36	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. It's a matter of great importance, because information security and protection of Ukrainian language on television, I'm sure it's a matter of national security and defence. For decades and after a language, including the Russian occupation, he tried to influence the Ukrainian state. Our responsibility and our task is to protect Ukrainian language, to protect Ukrainian space. I ask everyone to support this bill. Those with observations, I would like to stress, are voted only in the first reading. And so those amendments that are, they can be made to the question between the first and the second readings. And that's why I'm asking all the factions and all the colleagues to support this bill. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. And, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on language, audiovisual (electronic) media (number 5313) as a basis. Colleagues, we'll support the Ukrainian language, we'll support Bill 5313 as a basis. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:43:23]] For 244 Decision taken. I propose a shorter procedure for the second reading. There's a need. Short procedure in preparation for second reading. Please vote, please support. Short-term procedure for consideration of second reading. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:43:57]] For 224 Two votes, missed. Guys, take your seats. Please vote with discipline, colleagues. I'm once again making a proposal -- a reduced procedure for consideration for second reading, a reduction in the deadline for submission of proposals and amendments to second reading. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:44:35]] For 209 There is a desire to follow the full procedure. All right, I'm sure we can get ready as soon as possible and get the Supreme Council of Ukraine under review. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question, this is a matter of national security and defence. Draft Law 3728, Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (for documentation of disability, injury, injury to ATO participants). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[10:45:26]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Besbah Yakov Jacobovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u37	Good afternoon. Honourable National Deputies, the bill is submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Solvar, Matviyczuk, Vanat and Romanovski. The bill aims to improve the procedure for the processing of medical records and other documents on injuries, injuries, injuries, and injuries to military personnel. To this end, it is proposed to amend article 260 of the internal service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces approved by the Ukrainian Law on March 24, 1999, which requires that military personnel be ordered to be treated in a manner beyond the placement of a portion of the trauma report, which, in effect, is only necessary and allows the medical officer of the military to deal with the need to provide evidence of injury to his judgment. At the same time, the absence of such help in the future will create legal problems for military personnel who have suffered injuries, injuries, or injuries, such as obtaining legal aid and compensation provided for by law. I ask you to accept this bill, all the necessary signatures for it. That's what you've got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to the National Security and Defence Committee of John Winnick. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u39	Good morning, dear fellows! Indeed, today is an important day of national security and defence, the first project that we are considering presented by the national MP Bezbach and others. It's quite simple, but it's extremely necessary. The point is that in the event of disability, trauma, disability, injury, injury, and injury to the military to receive the appropriate benefits provided for in the Law on the Social Status of Military Servants, he has to receive medical advice from a military doctor working in his military unit. In actual legislation, the statute provides such help as is necessary. So we're proposing with the committee, together with the authors, that we set this standard as peremptory. That is to say, it will have to be issued to a military doctor in the military area, and if the situation does not allow it, for example, if military action is carried out at the military site, such assistance will be sent to the nearest military station for medical treatment and will be transferred. This will make it much easier for military workers to benefit from disability, injury, disability, trauma. So please support this fairly simple but extremely important bill for our army. He's being picked up by the Ministry of Defense. The committee invites him to vote in the first reading in order to take into account the observations made in the preparatory procedure for the second reading by the small Main Scientific and Experimental Administration, well, and accordingly to attach the Hall of the Supreme Council to the elaboration of it with the aim of adopting it as a law as a whole. Please vote, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u40	Colleagues, we've heard from you the position of the profile committee regarding the bill under discussion, and we're now recording the factions for discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. People's deputy Lensky. I can see that two factions have been signed up and whoever hasn't made it will have the opportunity. Excuse me, Mr. Lensky is speaking to the national MP Link. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u41	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! This law we will support, the Radical Party supports all the laws that strengthen our defenses that improve the conditions of our military personnel. Today, our military personnel are overwhelmed by bureaucracy, and especially in matters such as obtaining help, very many military personnel who were injured during the first period of the war, and then because they did not receive help or were given in time to join the military forces, they had problems, some investigations. That is why this law is designed to improve and simplify the service of our military personnel. So we will certainly support this bill. There are some amendments that we can work on in the second reading, and we stress the need to support all of the defense bills that we will consider today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Rybek's National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u43	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction will support this law and we confirm its relevance. A lot of our party are protecting our Fatherland now, we've come to the front, we've been communicating, we've been helping our soldiers, and they've confirmed the relevance of this issue. So we can really express our gratitude to the authors for solving this issue. On our expert board of the Fatherland faction, we were visited by representatives of the legal 100th, the organization, the public organizations that assist the ATO fighters, and they confirmed that without this bill, military personnel would not be able to establish the status of a war invalid and obtain, as provided by law, payments, that is, even more relevant. However, we should pay attention to the conclusions of the GNEU, and there are some comments that should be further elaborated on the second reading. For example, the title of the bill is not entirely consistent with its contents, since its standards are extended not only to members of the ATO but to all military personnel in case of recent injuries, disabilities, injuries, injuries. And in the name we see that the participants in the ATO, we all know that we have a war to reconcile. GNEU also stresses the importance of the bill of duty to provide not only information on injury but also medical characteristics, since it contains information on the illness of a military officer, medical examinations, disability in the last three years, and the opinion of the chief of the military medical service on the possibility of continuing military service in the occupied state of health. So we're working on this bill for a second reading and we're voting, we're helping our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u44	Thank you. Please haven't been able to log in yet, Igor Melniczuk. Sergey Melniczuk. I'm sorry, Mr. Sergei, I made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u45	As always. Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." Indeed, the internal service charter needs to make these changes, but this applies only to the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Why are we just looking at it with a narrow profile? We need to consider the issue for the police, too, and we've forgotten about the volunteer battalions that are on the front right now, it's the Duke and other formations that are now at war. They also need to consider how they will receive this help. So for the second reading, this is about a narrow direction, it might even consider a comprehensive bill and not forget anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u46	Sir, Sergio, thank you very much. Colleagues, are they willing to join other factions in discussing the bill? The bill is such that it has already been discussed, there are no more willing speakers. In principle, we have support for the session hall. I ask my colleagues to return to their places of work, and there will now be a vote in favour of Bill 3728. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (for documenting injuries (calculation, injuries, injuries) to ATO participants). We've heard the position of those factions that have joined the debate that this bill is supported by, we're voting on it in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I'm voting 3728. Please vote. 3728, please support. [[10:55:05]] For 223 Whoever didn't make it is the one who criticizes MPs the most for not being in the workplace. [[Applause]] I'm asking you, Your Honor, to sit in your seats, we're going back to the vote now. I ask you to vote in favour of returning to the vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Internal Service Statute (3728), please. Yeah, that's how we're voting for a return. [[10:55:52]] For 254 Thank you all for coming, we see. And now, please vote, Your Honor, this is the first reading, Bill 3728. Please support in the first reading. Based, of course, on a base. [[10:56:21]] For 262 And for the summary procedure, please support the simplified procedure for consideration, the preparation for the shorter amendment procedure, please vote. [[10:56:46]] For 236 Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the decision is made. The law is passed. And, colleagues, I have a request to you right now that we go to the committee to now consider a project that comes through one: the draft Law on the Single Military Register (2504a). And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me with this proposal so that we can now look at 2504a-d. He's through one, the committee's asking him to set him up now. I am very much asking everyone to take up jobs right now and support this proposal, colleagues. Ready? It's a matter of security and defense, just standing through one. Please place it now, colleagues, it's very short there just a few amendments. And I'm putting a motion on the vote to move right now to 2504a. Please vote, colleagues, back up 2504a. Please support me, proceed to his consideration. Please vote. [[10:58:14]] For 206 Colleagues, the committee has its own drafts. He asked that the bill, which after two stands, be put in place now. It's an elementary technical change. Do you have a deal? [[Noise Nodes]] So I'm explaining again, I see there's been a misunderstanding in the room. We've got it. Andriy Anatoliyovich, the next bill is only about to be passed out. So we need to move on to the other issues that are behind one. Can I count on support? Colleagues, I'm going to put this motion back on the vote. Colleagues, now I'm going to put this to a vote, please concentrate and please support us to move now to 2504a. Question: The draft of the Law on the Single Register of Military Obligations is in the hands of all. This bill is prepared by a committee. The National Security and Defence Committee requests that he be brought to the attention. I don't understand what political discussions might be like when it comes to national security and defence. I'm asking you to support us now to move on to his consideration. Please vote, please support me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u48	Wait, for reasons. Okay. Let's give it a motive. Vinnik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you now to support us now to consider 2504a-d, this is a bill on the creation of an electronic register of military bounds. Because it's all being stored on paper media now, and it's incomprehensible what state it is in, incomprehensible to whom it's available, it's supposed to be protected properly through systems. A complex system for protecting and storing information. We've been working on this project for over a year. He was in agreement with and with all factions, and he was amended accordingly. This is a procedure of re-second reading, which has not been amended, there's nothing complicated here, it's going to take us three minutes, let's vote and move on. Well, what's the problem? Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u50	Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute. Microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. Head, the unreserved Law 2504a-d is a good bill that is needed, and it will be voted upon. But the Rules are the Rules that save the state. So Law 5610, which is now to be considered, unfortunately, is not ready to be considered, because it doesn't have a three-day table to give out in three days. We therefore suggest that we abide by the Rules: either take down Law 5610, or consider it in violation of the Rules, a law that will regulate law enforcement and persecute people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u52	Colleagues, I suggest we move on to the following questions. And I'm asking you to support me. Please, Sergey Melniczuk. One minute. For this matter, please. Yes, for this reason: whether this law or you are in charge of transposing this law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u53	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." Mr. Head, because you're violating the rules systematically, you made Parliament a beggar and that mess that was yesterday. So do not violate the Rules. That's the first one. Secondly, I can't continue to be in a coalition that leads to such a mess. I'm leaving the coalition, here's my statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u54	I would like to inform you that, in fact, the decision of Parliament is currently determined by consistency. And it is a direct norm that is provided for in the Rules. The Hall determines the sequence of questions. I would like to emphasize once again: question 2504a, question 5112, which stands next, are now ready for consideration, the issue of national security and defence. I'm asking that we just move on to their consideration. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you to support this offer, colleagues. Ready to stand by, ready to vote? So, colleagues, I'm voting so that the issue of the National Security and Defence Block, which is through one bill, we're now putting it to the table. They supported the National Security and Defence Committee, which is a matter of draft law on the Single State Register of Militaryly Associated Persons. And I ask your support, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support your colleagues, please support. [[11:04:22]] For 185 The decision is not made. I, my colleagues, do not understand why the issue of national security and defence is not supported in the hall. And now I'm going to make a decision on how to proceed. In this regard, I use my right to announce a break of 15 minutes and invite the factions to me for political consultations. For 15 minutes under the Rules, I declare a recess. At 11:20, we continue our work, 11:20, please enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we've had consultations with the factions' heads. The issue of the Double Citizenship Act, which the President defined as urgent, was raised sharply. Unfortunately, this week the committee did not consider him. That's why I'm going to give a written commission and I'm now giving the commission to review and conclude on the bill on dual citizenship, which was defined as urgent by the President. Let the committee make a decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as soon as possible. So that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can move on to the decision-making process of the bill. Time for a break is up. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to improve criminal enforcement mechanisms) 5610. This is a bill of second reading. And I invite you from the committee to the report, Palamarczuk, yes, will you report? Yeah? Yes, please, Mr. Palamarczuk. It's a second reading. Right-wing authors please prepare for work. Please, Mr. Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, your point is to consider a comparative table prepared for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct). The bill received 88 proposals and amendments from Ukrainian national deputies. 36 of them are asked by the committee to count, 52 reject. During the preparatory process, we took into account the proposals made by the Attorney General of Ukraine at the February 23, 2017 plenary meeting and excluded sports situations from the text of the bill that caused misunderstandings in the hall. The possibility of delivering messages through the news in official printed editions of the Voice of Ukraine, the Government Courier and the official website of the calling authority. Increase the retention limit to 18 months, increase the period of pretrial investigation to 18 months, and extend the period of pretrial investigation to 18 months by the Attorney General of Ukraine. In addition, from the text of the project, we exclude changes to section XI, paragraph 1, of the CPC, "Transitional positions", which provided for the work of the investigating departments of the Public Prosecutor's Office without restrictions. And we suggest that we leave the rules for the beginning of the DBR and the transmission of the criminal conduct provided for in the original edition of section XI, paragraph 1. Thus, we have received a consistent text of the bill, which will allow us to correct the existing shortcomings of criminal proceedings in the matter of special judicial investigation and special judicial conduct, and also prevent the responsibility of those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law on second reading and generally as a law. A comparative table is given to you. For every proposal and correction, there is justification and consideration or rejection. In view of the above-mentioned proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on this issue, and with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, as necessary, we will make its technical and legal work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready for work. So I'm going to read those changes that were rejected. 10th, Anointed One. Is it insisting? [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Ah, yes, 1-a is rejected. Please, National Deputy Sotnik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, I have a general application first. This bill does not apply in any way to the improvement of long - distance condemnation and the possibility, indeed, of passing legal judgments against those who are hiding from the investigation. There's almost nothing here, except for the continuation of the Institute of Conviction until the D.B.I. Everything else in this law is a restriction on human rights and the ability of the prosecution and the investigation to abuse these rights. So I'm asking you very much to keep an eye on this bill right now. Because these standards will apply to every Ukrainian. And whoever's going to vote for these rules right now, you have to understand what the consequences are for every Ukrainian, that you're actually introducing additional pressure formulas and the police state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u59	Please comment. Mr. Mikolo, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u60	Well, I'd like you to step up to confirm the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u61	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u62	What I can say. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u63	Doesn't he insist on voting? The author does not insist on voting. 10 repairs, Anointed One. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 20th, Timoshenko Yuri. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 21st, Timoshenko Yuri. Don't insist. We're not there yet. We haven't reached her yet. 24th, Welcome. Don't insist. 25th, Mishchenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, please turn to the final text of this law very carefully. I thank the committee that many of my rights have been taken into account, but there are conceptual ones that cannot be ignored. Thus today, there is a rule that the accused and the lawyer may be familiar with the criminal case for the term they consider. If they delay this study, the court may schedule the investigative or prosecutor’s problems. And that's the balance between the bar and the investigation. What is proposed is not to be included in the investigation period. Where's the term of arrest? Where is the halt to this investigation? How will you procedurally do so? So I insist that this balance be maintained today, which is in force in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the rights of the defendants are not violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u65	Semenha, one minute, and then you comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u66	Semenach Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, what is at stake is the amendment proposed by the bill. The emergence of a stage of familiarization with pretrial investigation materials from the general criminal record creates a risk of abuse and pressure on the accused. In fact, a stage such as the introduction of pretrial investigation materials will last for years if the bill is passed, with the status of the accused not being altered, and it will in fact be deprived of the opportunity to defend its honour and dignity. In fact, a very dangerous norm that can create preconditions for abuse when a person is held in the status of the accused indefinitely, is basically an NCWDist norm that allows a person to be held on the hook indefinitely. So this is definitely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u67	Thank you. And one more minute, Captain. And then I'll ask you to comment on the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u68	Colleagues, I'll speak from my own experience. This rule of law actually gives rise to a period of familiarity with the material of the case from the general period of the trial. This means that prosecutors and investigators will not be interested in the fact that lawyers are promptly familiar with the material of the case, but rather will be interested in being as prolonged as possible so that the person who is under various restrictive measures, including arrest, continues to be there to put pressure on this person. This is primarily the pressure and the ability to actually influence a person who has not yet been found guilty, this is an opportunity to abuse the rights of protection. Specially, the other deputy just explained to you that this was a special norm designed to balance the defense with the prosecution, and you're once again shifting this balance to the prosecution's side, again spreading the attorney's mandate and limiting the power of defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u69	Do you insist on voting? Yes, colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 25, which united the proposals of both Mishchenka and Semimenach and Sotnik. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:43:16]] For 133 The decision is not made. Next 26th, Mosiyczuk. Don't insist. 27th, Welcome. Don't insist. What's that? 27th. 27th, please, one minute, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u70	27 amendment, I propose a new formula for calculating the length of criminal conduct. That is, the actual rules of union, separation, disunity, which are now entirely in the interests of the prosecution so that they can introduce criminal conduct by hand for five, six, seven, eight years. They don't really need your extension of investigation to 18 months, because according to this formula, they can make criminal conduct endless and people will be trapped all this time in law enforcement and won't be able to go to trial and defend their right to prove that they're not guilty. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u71	Okay. I'm putting 27 amendments to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee voted in favour of her rejection. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:44:42]] For-140. The decision is not made. Next 29th, Siroid. Don't insist. 31st, Welcome. 30th. Mishchenka, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to this standard, and it is suggested that the concept of "international" and "inter-state search" be practically erased. Why? And the committee's explanation says it's cleaned up because it's blocking Interpol. Do you understand what you're writing? That Interpol can block our international search and interstate search. Well, we've agreed before that Europe is the most corrupt body in Europe, Interpol. And actually, in fact, there's only one search left now, which can be stopped and there's a rogatory sentence. So don't do things like this when you're simply vilifying the notion of international and interstate search. Since the operational services will not search for anyone at all, it will be easier for them to search, pause, or make a search.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u73	Do you insist on voting? Who supports the 30th amendment of the Mishchenka People's MP, has rejected it, please vote for it. [[11:46:39]] For-146 The decision is not made. 35th, Mosiyczuk, don't insist. Jacinka, 37th. What's the number? Ah, 37, here are some authors. Please, Semenha, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, from a bill prepared for second reading, were excluded from the changes in the order in which the message was delivered to the person and his report of the call to the investigator. There is no reason, therefore, to keep any amendments to article 281 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which provides for an extension of the grounds for a person's search, since these changes are solely derived from changes to the order of the person's call to the investigator, i.e. they are inseparably linked to the rules already excluded from the draft. Therefore, section I, paragraph 7, should also be excluded from the bill, since the new legislation will only create a field for abuses by law enforcement agencies. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u75	Thank you. It's two corrections that go in a row, the next Siroid, they're actually identical. Please, Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u76	Thank you. I want my fellow MPs to think about the content of this amendment in general. In fact, the law enforcement authorities will now determine whether you are abroad, you are abroad for good reasons, or for no good reason. And if the rule of law decides that you're abroad for no good reason, it'll be a reason for you to do all of your criminal functions in absentia. Therefore, you need to understand that you are opening the way for law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u77	So, colleagues, do you insist on voting? Captain, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u78	Thank you. First of all, there was manipulation in the table because part of the 39 amendment was taken into account by Mrs. Ptashnik, who suggested that the words "no important reasons" should be added after "outside Ukraine." And in the right column, it appears after "it doesn't appear without good reason to call the investigator." In fact, the committee of its own discretion defined this amendment. But this does not change the substance of the correction. Because the appearance for no good reason remains to be considered by the investigator. One investigator will decide that if a person is in a hospital, that is a valid reason, and another investigator will determine that if he is in his home, for example, an influenza or angina, that is not an important reason, for he can reach the investigator. And it's going to be a very wide range of abuses, because actually the investigator doesn't have to tell anyone about these important reasons. All he has to do is determine that this is an irrelevant reason and declare a person to be wanted. This is total, total.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u79	Do you insist on voting? Colleagues, 37 amendments that support the amendment were rejected by the committee, please vote. Vote. [[11:50:05]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 42nd, Levenchenko. He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u80	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, of course, it's very good that at least between the first and second reading, the most dragonish norms of this bill have been removed. In particular, a number of our amendments have been taken into account to advertise people on the Internet and through newspapers to increase watchkeeping time. It's a good thing they cleaned things up. But it remains the same moment, just as it has been said that the investigator himself, for his own reasons, may decide when to announce a person’s search on the grounds of his being abroad. To that end, my amendment had just suggested that a comprehensive new approach should be taken so that no investigator could do so, and that was done by a prosecutor or an investigator. Logically, it is the investigating judge who must decide whether or not to announce a person’s search. This is a question that would actually destroy any debate, including active legislation, because these norms are also completely wrong in the current legislation. Let's put this institute in place so that the investigating judges can decide whether or not to advertise someone if we can't find him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u81	Do they insist on voting? Thus, 42 amendments to the People’s Deputy Levchenko, the committee rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:51:44]] For 135 The decision is not taken. 48th, Captain. Don't insist. Counted. Counted. Counted. Counted. 58th. Don't insist. 59th. Don't insist. 60th. Don't insist. 63rd. Don't insist. 60. What's that? Who are they insisting on? 63rd, Welcome home. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u82	Dmitri Dobrodomov, National Control Political Party. It's also welcome that a number of my licenses have been taken into account for the continuation of the 18-month retention period, and the investigation period is up to 18, and the announcements, and the postponement of the start of the DBR activity, I mean what they took. But in this direction, part four of article 469 should be left in its proper form. Why? In cases of particularly serious crimes or terrorism, a suspect should not be allowed to make a deal with the prosecutor and avoid liability. In general, such agreements are not permitted in Europe. Also, making such agreements, I note, would violate the rights of victims, particularly to compensate for the damage. So I'm asking you to put this right here to confirm and support it. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u83	Thank you. And there's actually an identical correction here. Siroid, one minute. Semenha, one minute. And, colleagues, there can't be four. Please, Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Oksana Siroid. I wanted to pay attention to what is being suggested in this direction. The actual arrangement is proposed. is proposed to make treaties with terrorists. Respectable colleagues, with terrorists unagreed, are punished by terrorists. I don't know another country in the world that would allow itself in principle to think about it, let alone legitimize it at the level of national legislation. Making covenants with terrorists is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Semenha, one minute. Captain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the current KPC editorial, and it now provides for the application of an agreement on the admission of guilt only in the case of a person who commits criminal offences and crimes of small or medium severity. The amendments proposed by the bill may lead to a situation where the authorities of pretrial investigation will deliberately pressure the victim to speed up the completion of criminal conduct. In addition, the proposed standard can be particularly critical in the conduct of crimes committed in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, particularly in the occupied area. Once again, I want everyone who listens to today's broadcast of the Supreme Council to hear all the national MPs: in fact, this rule offers a hidden amnesty for fighters who have committed serious crimes against Ukraine. That's why I call on the people's deputies not to vote, because we're actually going to open Pandora's box by anointing the fighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u87	Please, one minute, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u88	I'm not talking to the MPs right now. I'm talking to the Ukrainians. That's exactly what Oksana Siroid said -- it's a precedent -- there's no other country in the world where there's no such thing as a country with terrorists. Terrorism is recognized in all parts of the world as the most dangerous crime. Every terrorist must be held accountable. What agreements with terrorists could there be? None! I beg you, I insist. You mention the military, you appeal to the military, I want to see when you vote for it, how you'll explain to the military, who are now standing in a conflict zone, that they are actually, that you're actually going to deal with terrorists. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u89	Do they insist on voting? So I'm voting on amendment 63, which has all the proposals focused, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:56:22]] For-143 The decision is not made. Colleagues, this was the last discussional amendment and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, we're moving on to making a decision. What's that? 69th, Mischenka. Please proceed immediately to both amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u90	I'm sorry, I'll do it two separate ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u91	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u92	What this amendment says and what we leave in the Transitional Positions of the Criminal Procedure Code. Well, maybe we're talking about the fact that we don't have the State Bureau of Investigation, we're not setting up again when we do, this body is going to investigate criminal cases that are not present today by investigating other organs. And we saw from the rostrum when the Attorney General of Ukraine said, "I'm sure the D.B.I. will be created by the end of this year." So why are you afraid to set the deadline for December 31st, 17th, the deadline for creating the D.B.I., as the Attorney General said. That is, the Attorney General is confident that this body will be created, and the authorities are afraid to assert it this year. So please put it up and confirm that you will create it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u93	Thank you. So I'm putting 69 Mishchenka's amendment to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Please vote on who supports this amendment. It's a committee against it. We vote, colleagues who support this amendment. [[11:58:11]] For-163 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, there are two left, two left. Two minutes later, we go out and make a decision. I ask the Supreme Council's apparatus and all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, next 75. Mishchenka, one minute. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, this is a continuation of this discussion about the creation of the D.B.I. The Supreme Council has now established in Transitional Positions that the DBR should be created by April 15, 2017. That is, all matters must be referred by April 15, 2017. Clearly, by April 15, no one would have created it. But now it's completely cleared by other regulations. I mean, there's no term at all. The Supreme Council set it up for the state, for the Supreme Council when it was created. And now the Supreme Council is cleaning it up. So in the context of what I was proposing, and this is what the Attorney General said in the rostrum, that the creation of the DBR will be by December 31, 2017, and let the case be investigated by April 15, 2018! That makes sense. What do the authorities fear again to create the DBR? The question is probably very political and rhetorical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u95	So they insist on voting. 75 Amendment of Mishchenka, Who Supports? The committee didn't support her. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:59:56]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'll put in 77, colleagues, time is running out. Is there a requirement? I'll bet you 77. Colleagues, I'll put it up. Colleagues, I asked you what are the suggestions. There's still Captain 84's license. Please, one minute, but it's very brief. Because time is running out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u96	I have a minute to remind the chairman. Colleagues, I have an appeal to the National Deputies right now. In this law is the only good thing, it's a continuation of the sentence period, it's an opportunity to send, indeed, the cases Mr. Lucenko spoke of last time, to the courts. And it's important to accept that. All the other things I've talked about, they're dangerous to human rights. You have no right to vote for this. I ask you to think 10 times, and in this bill leave only what really applies to opposing sentencing, to exclude everything else, and only in these circumstances to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u97	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So, colleagues, the last 77 for confirmation now. And, colleagues, I want to tell you about 63 amendments that we've had so many discussions about, we've come to an understanding. And if they don't deny it, I'll take the position of Henprocuror, and I think this amendment will be taken into account and we'll go to a consolidated decision. So after a minute of voting. Please, the last amendment of the City Hall, 77th. Briefly, please, this is the last amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to meet Yuri Vitaliyovich. Yuri Vitaliyovich, Yuri Vitaliyovich, Yuri Vitaliyovich, I'm here to see you. Yuri Vitaliovich, Yuri Vitaliovich! Yuri Vitaliyovich, I want you to confirm what you said when you passed the law on the first reading that you are confident that the DBR will be created by the end of this year. Really. So I want to put this on record and go back to these amendments when the D.B.I. is created by December 31st, 17th, and the prosecution's deadline will be until April 15, 18th. So I ask 77 to bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u99	Colleagues, so we're now asking for the confirmation of 77th, which the committee supported, and then we're moving on to making a decision under the law. Please be prepared. 77 amendments are for confirmation. The committee supports it and the committee calls on all national deputies to vote. So I'm asking for 77 amendments now, and the committee is asking for support, and then we're going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. So I'm betting on the 77th amendment of the Alekseiv People's Deputies. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[12:03:15]] For 248 248 is in favour, and we're going to vote for the law directly. Yuri Vitaliovich, one minute, right? Please turn on the speaker of the Attorney General who is present at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I'm listening to the debate that unfolded on the amendments, and I want to confirm once again, my speech from the Supreme Council's high court, from the first reading of the Supreme Council, all the promises made, we've taken down the most annoying norms that were spoken by both the national MPs and the rights advocates and our European colleagues. However, there was another question on the committee today and yesterday, which, in my view, has different approaches. Can agreements be concluded in the case of investigations into the activities of terrorist organizations? On the one hand, a female guide can hand over the heads of a terrorist organization that she knows, and the court can secure this agreement. On the other hand, society has not yet held a discussion on this subject. I have to agree with that. So I would like to propose to vote in favour of this law, which will allow the trial of 190 cases in court tomorrow, including ex-President Yanukovic, including dozens, and there will be hundreds of traitors to the Crimea, including 20 generals of the Russian Federation and the minister of defense of the Russian Federation. But in general, I'd like to propose to the Hall that the words "terrorist organizations" be removed. To exclude them from the norm of this law for further social discussion and settlement of other laws. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u101	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'll put it in the form proposed by Attorney General Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. So, colleagues, I'm putting the bill to a vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for ensuring criminal conduct) (number 5610) by removing the words "terrorist organizations" from the text of the law throughout the body of the law. And in order for this to be done professionally, according to the technical legal regulations that the Supreme Council's apparatus has to provide for this to be removed, under the transcript, in this formulation, in the second reading and in general, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:06:28]] For 252 Decision taken. The law is passed. Hello, Yuri Vitaliovich! And thank you to the committee for your professional work in drafting the law. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:35, please arrive at the Ukraine Supreme Council Hall for the continuation of the work. I remind you, the National Security and Defence Unit is in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u102	Time taken for recess, exhausted, I ask everyone to enter the hall to continue our work. I remind you, we have a day-to-day issue of national security and defense. Please invite the deputies to the Hall, please announce that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is continuing. So, colleagues, we have the next draft of the law in the daytime is the Law on the Single Register of Militaryly Bindings. This is a second reading, so there is no need to vote in favour of changing the procedure. And I invite you to a report on the draft Law of 2504a, the rapporteur, the Secretary of the Committee on National Policy and Defence of Vinick Ivan Yuliyovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Actually, I was already speaking on the subject of this law today, urging him to vote quickly, but we did not find votes in the session room. And I have a stable feeling right now that there might be a sad situation that there is a draft law that is already rereading in this sessional room when no amendment has been made to the committee's second reading. I mean, I understand that everyone agrees with the content that was first prepared for the second reading. At the same time, we do not collect votes in connection with the banal physical absence of deputies in the session room. In addition, by regulating the rules of procedure, I can report that the project lays down the basic principles for the creation of the Single Electronic National Military Register. It's actually a duplication of the data that's currently being stored on paper in the military. I would like to remind you that in many military units, this data was simply missing physically in 2014, when Russian aggression started, perhaps someone was deliberately destroyed, among other things, so that we could not properly mobilize the Ukrainian army to resist Russian aggression. Less than that today we have over 280,000 participants in the fighting, this is actually our first round reserve. The information is stored in military units, again, on paper media, in an unprotected way. Unfortunately, this is a form of storage of information that is not modern and that is, unfortunately, much more accessible to any diversified action than storage on electronic media if it is adequately protected through a comprehensive system of information protection and response to any threats that are being addressed at the level of the State Information Protection Service and the special link authorized by the State authority to do so. So let's concentrate on re-second reading today without considering any amendments, because none has been made, we will vote in second reading and in general bill 2504a-d and we will finally create the only state register of military obligations in Ukraine, and we will protect it properly, and we will use it. I'm asking the session room to support this as much as possible right now. I ask if there are no votes, to postpone the voting on this project, for example after lunch, if there is no discussion. I understand that in this case the Rules do not provide for any discussion. The report was completed. Thank you, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Stay in the rostrum. We'll be right back. There is no mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u105	No changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u106	How's that? I have a tablet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u107	This is an amendment to the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u108	Mr. John, I have a table on my hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u109	No amendments were made to the draft bill for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u110	I have a table that is given by the apparatus. Perhaps, but this is legal, evidently correct. We're moving on to a discussion of amendments. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u111	We discussed them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u112	And, colleagues, I want to point out that there are not many amendments. So I'm asking you now to invite the deputies to the Hall and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the heads of the factions to maximize the hall, and the amendments are few. So 1-a, I was walking. Declined. Don't insist. 12th, I've been walking. Don't insist. 4 amendment, Odarchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, let us not turn the register of military-related services into a file. According to the first reading of article 7, there was a specific and complete list of data to be included in the register. And in the second reading, this list is gone, instead of it, there's an indication that there's data in the register that can identify the person. What's going to go in there -- partying, political views, information about public activity? We have already seen that on the previous second reading, we have been asked to provide information on going abroad as well as on the relatives of the suitor. If we don't specify this list right now, we're going to have a list of data similar to that of the KGB. I ask you not to support this amendment. Mr. Andrey, please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u114	Please comment, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u115	There's nothing to comment on here. We need to read legislation. Dear colleagues, there is the Ukrainian Protection Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u116	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we need to read the legislation before shouting from place to place. There is the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act, article 2, paragraph 10: personal data. It is I who read the definition by law, Mrs. Kugel. Personal data is information or a collection of information about a person with whom he or she is identified or can be specifically identified. We include that definition. We include that definition in the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u118	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we are writing a bill: the identity of a militaryly bound conscript is information or a collection of information about a natural person, and then we quote the definition in the law: by which it can be specifically identified. How else can we write? There's no party property here. Dear colleague, you can be identified without party affiliation. So there's no party property here, no, everything, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u120	Replica, Kugel. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Alexander Kugel, Fatherland Party. Personally, several times I have stressed that it is very dangerous to accept in the form in which Mr. Winnick stretches out, which has a sufficiently serious question today, or in my opinion he may be admitted to military secrecy on some issue, but I want to say like a woman like Mom, in that way I firmly oppose that register in a month's time be on the market. All of Ukraine’s registers can be purchased on the book market. Second, this register is based on a Russian platform. All the registries in Ukraine, the platform on which the program is written, belong to Russia. I think it is inappropriate, without consulting, without making a European way of doing so, to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u122	Thank you. So 4 amendment for confirmation, right? Please, after this amendment. 4th Amendment, Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u123	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support the One Register of Obligations, Military Obligations. I am surprised to hear allegations that there is no need for a single register of military bounds in Ukraine. In Ukraine, which is actually in a state of reflection of Russian aggression, in Ukraine, where there is to be, instead of the mess and anarchy that we see today, there must be iron discipline, accounting, responsibility. To overcome an enemy, it must be strong, there must be control, there must be responsibility, there must be strict order. We have anarchy, a mess, no power, the law doesn't work, and you tell me you don't need registers, you don't need that. How Can I Conquer the Enemy? Only iron discipline, responsibility, and order. People on the street today are afraid to go through the mess you had in our home country. With an iron hand, we will bring order to Ukraine so that everyone will not be afraid to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u124	Colleagues, I'll have the amendment made, and then I'll have Mr. John comment. So now I'm giving: Teteruk Andrey, one minute. I'll set you up, I'll tell you what. I'll put it in! Please, Teteruk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u125	I propose that the political component of the evaluation of this law be taken away. It is essential for us to form powerful Armed Forces. And all the emotions that are now coming together, they're only bringing discord. It is important to focus on the main goal of protecting our country from Russian aggression. All cream cans that weaken the Ukrainian army must be ignored, we must do everything we can to build powerful Ukrainian Armed Forces, our power block and adopt this law immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u126	Comment, Mr. John, and after that, I'm putting to the vote the amendment for confirmation, the 4th amendment. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u127	Well, look what my colleagues in Fatherland insist on. There was a bill prepared by the government for the first reading. One of the elements of the military's personal data, which was included in this draft legislative act in the first reading, was: "The news of the date of departure outside Ukraine and the date of return to Ukraine," which is what Fatherland insists on. We're on the committee, and we don't think that's necessary. We therefore propose that this paragraph be edited in accordance with the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act and we write: "Sufficient information or a collection of information about a natural person who is identified or can be specifically identified." The Ministry of Defense doesn't need to know when a military officer travels abroad, and Fatherland insists that this should be introduced. So you insist on confirming the committee's amendment. Well, you insist, look at the table for the second reading, Mrs. Kugel, 4th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u128	Colleagues, who? Replica, Timoshenko. One minute, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, today all the necessary registers exist, they are kept in the form that makes it most impossible to get these important documents into the ransom. That's why we absolutely don't support the creation of a register that will have consolidated information of an electron that will be available to the invader on an elementary basis, and we'll put our boys, including young boys, into the hands of an aggressor. You don't have to do this explicitly! You don't have to. So our party, our faction against it. And we won't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u130	Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking for some peace in the hall. I'll give my word to anyone who wants to make an amendment. Name the amendment after which. And then I'll give you my word. We are now putting to the vote to confirm Amendment No. 4. So the committee is offering to support it. We'll wait for Mr. Ivan to pick up his card, just a second. The committee's requesting support for this amendment 4th. And I'm proposing to the committee to support this amendment, amendment number four. So, please vote, please support amendment number four, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please support the 4th amendment. Vote. [[12:54:35]] For 177 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'm going to give you my word, call it an amendment, and I'm going to give you my word in the sequence that you were in. Screecher, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! It happened that I was involved in the implementation of this system. We make it free for the Ministry of Defense. So I'd just like to talk about the details that I know a little bit about, like a train built inside. First. The enemy has long had our electoral base in Ukraine, so the issue of stealing, not stealing, sorry, colleagues, does not stand. That's the first one. The other one. The system is being developed on no Moscow registers, nothing there or anywhere near it. Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u132	Mrs. Kugel, excuse me, please. Let me finish, huh? The platform is being built on our ELEKS platform. There is no relation to Moscow, done on its own, to the fulfilment of all the requirements of information protection systems, to channel encryption. And more importantly, I want to say. What I want to say is important, very important, including protection against the use of what's in the Ministry. I mean, not one.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u133	30 seconds. You can tell me what kind of correction you're making. None of the Ministry employees will be able to copy the data completely from the register, it's forbidden. That's why there's protection against users, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u134	Colleagues, I understand, the Scrapnik insists on no correction. I'm asking a colleague to call me what the amendment is. [[B in m in s a l in]] 7th, 7th. 5-a, right? At 5 Yvchenko's, by 7th Laško. On the 5th, yes, on the 5th, Easy raised his hand first, then Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u135	Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u136	All right, turn on Yvchenko for a minute, then Easy for a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u137	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want us to lose our degree. I understand that some MPs have a conflict of interest in voting because their companies are developing legislative provisions or information for the Ministry of Defence. But what I mean is, look, we have a head of military intelligence, who is this man? This man was making a direct plan for the capture of the House of Trades, where the rangers were killed, the Boumerang plan. Who do we have working for the National Police? A lot of people who were standing in Berkut and throwing off rangers. And yesterday's reward for a man who was directly part of one of the terrorist organizations. Then she joined the National Police. One thing you need to understand is that we have a question of colossal corruption in the country. And if we form this database in the same register, tomorrow our enemy will know by the names of each infant and every child by sex, by partying and so on. That's why we're against today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u138	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u139	So, colleagues, we insist, it's not at the time of adoption of the bill, because it might be the gain of our enemy. And that's why we're proposing not to vote all right, because we understand that any register today on all the channels of the Ministry of Justice, and so on, we can buy with you on Petrovka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u140	At 5 o'clock, Oleg Lazko. Turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I ask Ukrainian citizens to pay attention to those who do not vote in favour of laws that strengthen the country's defenceability -- "trojan and Kremlin horses" and "Moscow Zosuls". Which under any circumstances do not vote in favour of financing the army, for order in the army, for discipline in our country, because they want anarchy, they want a mess, they want a ruin of the country. As it may be said, in wartime conditions, we do not need a register of military bounds in the context of Russian aggression. It's about the enemy. So these enemies are sitting here in Parliament, and they know these enemies, because instead of bringing them to responsibility, they're: "Moscow column", "Troyan horses" and "Moscow Zosuls" -- they're lying to the authorities, serving the authorities, serving the Kremlin, and they're calling on us not to provoke Putin and not to defend the country. What they do by betraying our country!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u142	There are no proposals for voting on this amendment. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, then Melniczuk. But describe the adjustments you want to make. Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, me. We worked on this bill for a year. We've taken all the moments into account, the bill foresees full protection of information. I just want to say two words why it's necessary. We still have military personnel working in the 50s of the last century. When the mobilization began, the messages were sent to people who were simply gone and moved. It's a very important moment right now, we've got training, we've had tens of thousands of people appointed to study congregations last year. The Ministry of Defense and Genstab need to understand clearly what he's doing, and without new technology, it's impossible. Let's calm down, there's no betrayal here, the information is completely protected. Betrayal is in Parliament, it's true. Let us vote in favour of this bill. Don't make fun of people, you don't understand anything, and you're putting on a lot of heresy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u144	Colleagues, I'm asking you to name the amendments you're asking for, or to vote for, or to support. Now, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, really, the law, believe me, is needed because I'm just going to give a living example that was on the front. Volunteers came, and in order for them to move from volunteering to military service, I had to check to see if they had any questions. And I couldn't get any answers. We need to have a general system, and on this system we get the right data. Since this system of ours is Ukrainian, on our platform, yes, we have one thing left to do is to reform the Armed Forces, drive out the men who are regionally killing our boys in boilers, and that's where we have to do it, really. And everything else has to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u146	So, Kishkar, one minute. And, colleagues, in a few minutes, these are the last amendments, so let's move on to making a decision. The 14th? I'll give you 14. Please invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the heads of the factions of the deputies to invite them to the Hall. Please, Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! I remind you that this law, for the fourth time, seems to be under consideration and, of course, all the flaws that have been in this bill have been removed. Thank you, Alexia Screepnik, for the details of the process inside. Thank you to the chairman of the committee for supporting the transition from a paper form of military-related to computer systems. And I assure you that these systems will be protected by the best systems that are designed and actually working around the world. Thank you. This law must be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u148	So, colleagues, 14 papers, Ostrikova. 15th, Odarchenko. Please, 14th Ostrikova, 15th Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the definition of the register in the first article of the law, which is "the automated information and telecommunications system designed to collect and store the processing and use of military-related data." Today, really in Ukraine, information and telecommunications systems are written by private companies, and then they belong to private companies. But in this case, development takes place on the basis of a contract, and free of charge, the property of intellectual property will be transferred to the Ministry of Defense. This is just an example of when, in fact, the volunteer work of a Ukrainian software company on Microsoft, SQL, there is no Russian software. The information system is written by the Ukrainian firm, and property rights will be transferred free of charge on the basis of a contract for the development of the Ministry of Defence and will be owned by the State. This is just a good example of how intellectual property rights are shaped, so this law needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u150	15 repairs, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, there's a paper bill in the area. Another question is that he may not be sufficiently perfect or very conscientious. But everyone who's worked with documentation, with people, understands that the most reliable way to save people, to save information, is to fix it on paper media. You ask any security services, the Ukrainian Security Service, how do you account for people? Only on paper. Today your desire to transfer them to the electronic account is an attempt to reveal this information to the agents you're against here, to those agents that you're yelling about in Russia. That's why we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, this must now be responded to by a committee representative. There is no possibility to discuss the amendment under the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u153	Colleagues, 15 amendment for confirmation. I'm asking the committee to comment on this. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u154	The Fatherland faction proposes to move on to the most reliable means of storing information, maybe we'll move on to rock paintings soon, it's been preserved for millenniums. But the modern world is still based on electronic media. That's why Fatherland doesn't want to break this law, but this register will exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u155	Colleagues, no, I'm voting now. I'll make another amendment. I don't have that right. Now we put to the vote, then after the next amendment, colleagues. Amendment 15 is now on the vote for confirmation, please go into the hall and take your jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs, and the committee is asking for the support of Amendment 15, and I'm asking you to support the committee. And, colleagues, please ask the deputies to take up their jobs. So I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 15, please vote, please support the 15th amendment, and the committee is proposing support. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:06:55]] For 205 The decision is not made. Colleagues, what's the deal, Oleg Lazko? My colleagues, I'll tell you two words in general. Let's now define an exclusive list of other amendments that are there. Easy, Yvchenka, 16th, no more? Kishkar – which one? Kishkar, I'm sorry. 17th. And all that's going to happen is that there's not going to be any more questions. So three amendments now, then we go to the vote. A proper vote will take place in three minutes. I ask you to invite the people's deputies and the heads of factions, the last three amendments that I now give my word for. 16th, Yvchenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u156	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! So once again, I want to point out that the most important thing, for example, is to register in the land when, in fact, you automatically put fake data in the register and people can, for example, leave their private property. That's the first one. The other one. You and I, for example, took a six-terrestrial register about a year and a half ago. And today, for example, the Holdgeokadastre enters the archives and sees where these lands were transferred there in the land of agriculture and so on. We still go back to the fact that our registers are not protected today. And understand, in a situation where we have such a personnel policy, such a failed state policy and a complete balance, along with the colossal corruption that all international organizations are talking about, it is unacceptable to give one spear our children's register on various counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u157	Thank you. I have already called a comprehensive list of associations.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u158	What's that? 16 Amendment to Confirmation. It's on her, too. Oleg Lazko, and then, Mr. Ivan, you comment. 16 right, Baby. And then there'll be a comment by the committee head, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u159	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleague Odarchenko says you can't go to electronic media because you can't go to paper. Dear colleague Odarchenko, why don't you offer your leader an analogy to move from "mercedes" to oxen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u160	Replica, Odarchenko, one minute. Odarchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u161	Look, I'd like to advise the speaker to go back in time. You remember showing a very interesting film about someone doing services, and it was on electronic media, and people were watching. And in your experience, you can think of how these electronic media come out in the media. Perhaps there are also paper carriers that are more securely lying in these safes, and you are now forced to, realizing that these paper carriers are lying, to act like this, to scream, to criticize precisely by authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u162	So, colleagues, I'm putting 16 amendments to the vote. And, colleagues, I want to look to my colleagues, and we're starting to go beyond the discussion of the bill. That's why I'm asking everyone to hold back. I called it an exclusive list. Colleagues, now I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall, and I'm going to ask for confirmation on 16th, and then I'm going to give you the 17th Kishkara, the amendment. Colleagues, I'm just telling you, this is going to last forever, and we're not going to make a decision. I'm asking you to come to the hall. Now the hall is mobilized, we can now adopt the law. We're just going to collapse if we put this law into endless discussion. That's why I'm asking you to stop. Okay. Category requirements - Rosenblatt, Teteruk, Lasko, Melniczuk, everything. All right, guys, you got a deal? Is there a deal? Four amendments and all, and I don't take any more suggestions. And one more thing, don't call it names and factions. Because we're going to have endless replicas on the line. We agreed, right, everybody agree? So we're done. So, colleagues, Kishkar, 17th. No, the 16th vote, right? 16 amendment for confirmation. Do I get it right? So I'm voting on Amendment 16, and the committee supported it. No, the committee rejected her, the committee rejected her. Who Supports Amendment 16? The committee rejected her, the committee said not to vote. Please vote. The committee rejected her, the committee against her. Whoever supports this amendment does not support it, please vote. [[13:12:38]] For-75 16th overturned. The decision is not taken. So I would like to stress that we called it a complete list. 17th, Kishkar, then Rosenblatt, then Baby, then Teteruk. And let's go to the vote. Please, Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, in fact, it is sad to hear a request from the national deputies to return to a distant future. Asking you to think about our future, not the past. And I would like to remind you that there is a criminal case in the Henprosecutor's office that, of course, investigates the failure of the four similar systems, including those developed during the leadership and administration of certain leaders of the present factions, which are here. Four such IT systems that are not operational at the start of the war. So the Attorney General's Office has to attract the people responsible for not working in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u164	Rosenblatt, one minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u165	Andrew Volodymyrovich, I wanted to address you first. In fact, today our colleague suggested that you do not turn our parliament into a pavilion. This is the first time. The second question. I'd like to go to the Department of Defense and talk about the only thing that the best IT tech specialists should be working for the Ministry of Defense, they should be in the state. Because our national security, without modern technology, cannot exist. So it's a very big request. The register is essential, but there is still a need to create a separate unit that will deal with these issues and will do everything to make the Ukrainian army the most modern. And then there won't be a question of protecting some servers and secrets and everything, because you can provide the best storage conditions for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u166	Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, there are two political forces in Parliament: Kremlin Trojan horses and Moscow Zosuls, which have not voted for three years in a row to finance the army, inventing any reason to please the Kremlin, weaken the security of our country. Finally, the retrograde colleagues who prefer the manuscripts that are known not to burn, I want to remind you of one of these manuscripts -- this is a meeting of the PNB since February 2014, where the Moscow Zosula has urged us not to fight for Crimea, not to defend Crimea, to be aki doves of peace, not to provoke Putin. Today, this Moscow Zosula tells us that it is necessary to protect the country. It was necessary not to conspire with Putin, not to betray the Crimea, but to protect the country. "The manuscripts don't burn," and all Ukrainians know that "Moscow Zosuls" and "Trojan Horses" serve the aggressor and the enemy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u168	Last, Andrew Teteruk's amendment, one minute, and we go to the vote. All right, I called it a complete list, colleagues. Anything, please, Teteruk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I ask you to calm your emotions and take a serious approach to the important issue of enhancing the security of our country. This software is going to be the most modern cryptologist in the database of our military personnel, it's all that we haven't met the enemy in 14 years. We need to improve the protection system, including in the force sector, the latest developments that are free of charge to the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff. That lie, which now flows from the Kremlin's graves, should not stop us from trying to strengthen Ukraine with the latest developments that are being made by Ukrainian intellectuals for the benefit of our nation. Do not listen to the Kremlin monkeys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u170	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly Bindings (2504-a-Deputy) in a second reading and in general. Colleagues, please support our military personnel, please maintain a military register, don't be indifferent, take your seats and vote. I ask for the support of the Single Military Register. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we support the military. [[13:18:00]] For 236 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee. By factions, please turn on. Peter Poshenko's Block – 105 People's Front – 71, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 17, Radical Party Lachka – 18, Father's Front – 0, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 4. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, the National Security and Defence Unit. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the responsibilities of military personnel and some others 5112. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report. Vinnik. John Winnick will report to the committee's secretary. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u171	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich! Thank you for the session room. Bill 5112 was designed to improve discipline in the Ukrainian army, to impose more effective discipline in the Ukrainian army in relation to military personnel, including their commanders. We have a big problem in the state right now. It is related to a violation of the statutes, a violation of discipline, sadly, to a phenomenon such as drunkenness. In view of what, unfortunately, is a very sad, tragic statistic for 2016 that, in the Ministry of Defence, in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, no fighting losses exceeded the fighting. Indeed, the valid Administrative Code, which refers to the imposition of restrictions on military personnel, is quite cumbersome, especially with regard to the use of antiterrorist operations in the area. Because all decisions have to be made in court, including with regard to fines, regarding temporary deprivation of liberty. Therefore, the bill developed more effective mechanisms to enable commanders to provide discipline in the military. This bill, which was adopted in the first reading, was preceded by 19 proposals. 6 of them were counted completely, 3 was edited, 10 were rejected. The chief legal office, the bill is being drafted with observations. The Ministry of Defence fully supports the project. Well, actually, the committee's been working on it for over a year and a half because it had a different number before, but it wasn't included in the agenda, it was re-registered, it was harmonized, and it included other factions and members of our committee. So let us consider it in a second reading today. Let's go to the repairs. And I'm actually proposing to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u172	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to stay out of the hall, because there's not much right here. We're going after him and there's going to be a vote soon. The committee took almost all the amendments to the bill into account. Amendment No. 10 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. He's not in the hall right now. He doesn't insist, I understand. Amendment number 12, People's Deputy Bird. She's in Strasbourg today in our delegation. 13th, Bird. 14th, Bird. 15th, Bird. 16th, Bird. 17th, Bird. 18th, Bird. 19th, Bird. On this, colleagues, the amendments to this bill have been completed. Few were presented and all counted by the committee. And we're going to the vote. So I very much ask that colleagues come to the session room, and we will now proceed to the vote. Please, Mr. John, you can make your move. Colleagues, I'm also asking the secretariat to announce that there will be a vote for Bill 5112. I'm asking you to return to the session room. Dear colleagues, in 30 seconds, there will be a vote in favour of Bill 5112, a bill introducing some Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of military personnel and some others. We will vote on the basis only of this bill. I ask my colleagues to return to the session room. We'll be together. No, it was. This is the second reading, and we're going to be voting in favour of this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u173	I'm asking you to take up your jobs, your colleagues, get ready to vote. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibilities of military personnel and some others (number 5112) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote 5112 in second reading and in general. Vote, fellows! Please vote, please support. [[13:24:23]] For 217 I'll be back in a minute. I see MPs entering the hall during the vote. Please ask everyone to take up their jobs. Now I'm going to put you back on the vote. Please take up your jobs. My colleagues, so now I'm going to return to the vote. Everyone, please concentrate and support. Ready, colleagues? Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of military personnel and some others, proposed by the Committee on National Security and Defence 5112, is a national security block. I'd like your support, colleagues. And I would like to vote in favour of the return to debate 5112, colleagues. Please vote, please support the return to debate 5112. Vote. Colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:26:10]] For 227 Colleagues, back up, now I'm asking you to concentrate, voice-to-voice matters, please take your places of work, voice-to-voice matters. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on increasing the responsibility of military personnel (number 5112) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:26:55]] For 229 Decision taken. The law is passed. The next law we have today is a block of national security and defence for re-examination of laws with proposals by the President of Ukraine (number 2289a). I would like to point out that this bill has its own procedure. She looks like this. First there's a reporter, then there's three minutes -- question to the reporter. There's a co-rapporteur, three minutes -- questions to the co-rapporteur and then a vote. So this is a special procedure, and I'm asking everyone who wants to ask the reporter and the co-reporters to sign up. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u174	Honorary Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 October 2016, the Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of State Authorities of Ukraine and Officials (number 2289a) cannot be signed by the President on the basis of this. The law that has been signed proposes to expand the list of foreign officials, international organizations that come to Ukraine or are in its territory in official delegations or visit Ukraine at the invitation of State authorities. In doing so, it is established that the list of officials of international organizations under State protection will be determined by the President of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The following should be noted on this point. In accordance with its constitutional powers, the President of Ukraine is the head of state and is speaking on her behalf, and in the field of foreign policy, the President of Ukraine represents the State in international relations and directs foreign political activities of the State. This was emphasized by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in its decision of January 15, 2009. With regard to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in this area, according to the basic law, it must ensure that foreign policy is implemented. This indicates that the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has separate constitutional powers in the field of foreign political activity. In view of the above, and in view of the fact that the Constitution of Ukraine is the norm for direct action, the decision of the President of Ukraine regarding the number of officials of international organizations on which State protection is being carried out does not require the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the President of Ukraine proposes the second sentence of paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of Governmental Authorities and Officials to read: "The list of officials of international organizations for which state protection is being carried out shall be determined by the President of Ukraine." Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u175	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Colleagues, we have three minutes to ask the reporter. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please, Alexei Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u176	He says he's asking to tell Mr. Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u177	Please don't worry, sir. Is your card in the remote? Yes. Some technical problems have arisen. The problem with Mr. Nemira's card, it turns it on and the microphone doesn't work. Anything, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u178	I have a question. The law proposes that the President appoint representatives of officials of international organizations to protect them. As for the international organization, because its representatives do not want such protection, it is their right to determine what order and whom they need to have as their own protection or not have.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u179	Thank you for asking. You know, there's a special procedure for this, if an international organization thinks it doesn't need protection, it won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u180	Please, Mrs. Kugel, your next question, Alexander Volodymyrna. Restoration, questions again, please. Turn on Mr. Nemira's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u181	I'll do it again. There has to be some logic that the logic was that if a representative of an international organization, such a protocol, always needs some extra protection that an international organization itself cannot provide, then the receiving party is asked to do so, but this is the initiative of this representative of an international organization. It looks like the Ukrainian side just defines what the President wants or who else you need to protect. I don't see the logic here, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u182	Thank you for asking, for continuing the question. The standards of this law do not apply to the matter that we are talking to you about. We're the only thing we're removing from the Cabinet of Ministers, that's all. Everything else doesn't change. As is now the procedure that State Security has. There is a request from an international organization that requests us to provide protection either for our delegation or for our visit there to the headmaster or the president, and then it is granted. If you don't have that question, of course, you understand, it's being asked as it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u183	Thank you. Please ask Mr. Odarchenko the next question. Please turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u184	In general, it seems strange that the President vetoed this law, because this law does not apply at all to the procedure for determining the number of persons to be protected. But the President vetoed and proposed a change that doesn't apply at all to the substance of a bill that wasn't discussed in either first or second reading, and he wants to define, according to his veto, the list of persons to whom protection is given. I think it's wrong for the President, the guardian of the Constitution, to violate the Supreme Council's regulations. He wants to make a single determination, make a law, and make that decision by voting in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u186	Thank you for asking. So I want to tell you that part two of article seven of this law, which we're talking about with you right now, was good. That law, which was passed on to the President, put this article in a new edition, and that's why the veto was applied to this law, and the President's proposals were made. That's why there's no violation of the Constitution here. On the contrary, it is very clear that, according to the Constitution, the President's proposals are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u187	Last question, please, from Melniczuk, National Deputy Sergio Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u188	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." As the bill refers to the authorities of the State, of course it would be a request for the President to pay attention to the event that took place yesterday in Parliament. And yet the authorities of the state, which is Parliament, have been protected. To provide other protection, because what happened yesterday, we see that in fact the protection that is in Parliament is being usurped by one force, and that mess that was yesterday is actually in denial of all the mouths of our parliamentaryism. And it wasn't just us Ukrainians seeing the whole world, that's all. Everyone knows my position against the radically tuned Parasuc, against the son of the Danish Cossack, the chief illustrator, against the man who served in the Donetsk Republics who took over the district administrations. But I'm for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u189	Please. All right, your question is heard. Please, Mr. Arthur, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u190	Thank you for asking. And although this does not refer to the substance of the law, I would like to say that you know that, according to the order of the Supreme Council, an investigation is now under way and the results will be reported to the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u191	Thank you, Your Honor. Now the word for the report is given to Mr. Pashinski Sergy, the head of the profiling committee. It conveys the opportunity to make a joint statement to the Secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence to John Winnick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, well, we're in this room somehow trying to make things better and bring out some kind of political discussion, sometimes, by the way, it's useless. Everyone knows and understands that Ukraine now, during the war, is visited by a lot of foreign delegations, and they are not only in Kiev, but, including, they visit Shirokino, they visit other cities in the anti-terror zone, they visit the line of collision, it's not just the OSCE, it's the other and many other organizations including the senators, the lords of the English. And these people, of course, need protection, security -- state protection. All of these people are accepted by the President because he is an authorized person to implement Ukraine’s foreign policy. Therefore, according to the President's proposal, a legislative act that has been voted by the Supreme Council as a whole as a law makes one single change: the President's proposal sets up appropriate protection, not the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. So there's nothing weird or scary or upsetting or resonant. So let's vote and move on. We still have a lot of questions that we need to work on in this session hall today on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u193	Colleagues, it's three minutes to ask. Stay, Mr. John, on the rostrum, please. Three minutes, and we move on to the vote. So in three minutes, there's going to be a vote. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And now I'm asking you to hold a record of who wants to ask the question to the co-rapporteur. Please. Chernenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u194	I have a question. In fact, the Petra Prashenko faction will support this bill because we don't take unnecessary bureaucratic warnings. Especially when unscheduled, urgent delegations arrive, and they now have a great deal of such delegations. And in fact, by this bill we are implementing generally accepted international conventions and requirements for the protection and representatives of foreign governments and international organizations. So no politics, let's all support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u195	Thank you. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u196	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Colleagues, I propose to support this bill, it will really just give you a more rapid opportunity to work. And my address to the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, on the committee, as I informed you on the Conciliation Council, we unanimously adopted Bill 5693, which is on the payroll of our rocket builders. And I have a huge request to put it in place and to take it personally, to put it on Tuesday, and to set up Law 5113, which was registered by the representatives of Fatherland and the Radical Party, so that we can solve these two laws -- and solve the problem of our rocket builders. Please, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u197	Barna Oleg Stepanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u198	Friends, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, are solely the competence of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, it is clear that the issue of activity and cooperation with international diplomatic representations and the proper provision of their activities, and thus protection, should be relied on by the Ukrainian State in the person of the President of Ukraine, who must ensure all the proper conditions for the proper functioning of diplomats in Ukraine. Thus, this bill is structured in the country’s international relations and in the protection of diplomatic representation. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u199	I understand it's not a question, it's a speech. And lastly, Sverk Grigory Aronovich, then we go to the vote. Please come into the hall. Please, Gregory Aronovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm also asking you to support this bill. From my point of view, this is a question that is not controversial, a question that has no political color. So I ask all factions of Parliament to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u201	Thank you. I'm asking the reporter to take the job and we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. Please, everyone take up jobs, we're done talking, we're moving on to making decisions. Invite the deputies to the hall. I'll put the committee's proposal to the vote. And I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Protection of State Authorities of Ukraine and Officials, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 09.11.2016 at the invitation of the Committee to accept the Committee as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals. That's the committee's proposal, and that's my vote. Thus, the Law of Ukraine of 2289a is to be adopted in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals. Colleagues, the President, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, vote, please support. [[13:42:38]] For 227 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, we have the following two laws, attention, no rights at all. We'll pass them in two minutes. And I have this appeal to you. You will, of course, then make a decision by voting. I was approached by a number of deputies from different factions and from the Education Committee to draft the Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the "youth specialist" level of education, 5240, so that we could put it in order and vote. That's why I have an offer, colleagues. Now two laws in the second reading are actually without rights, that's five minutes. And then I'm going to propose 5240, it's in the agenda, just move it closer and vote. Is it supported? Then let's go to the vote, colleagues. I'm just asking you to stay in the hall. Now there are two bills. The last of the National Security and Defense Unit, where there are no warrants at all. The first is 4915-d, the MP. This is a bill amending Chapter XX, Subsection 2, Transitional Provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemptions by Taxes on Added Costs of Defence Assignment. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna. And don't break up. There's no right here, in this law. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u202	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We have two short drafts for our second reading. They are proposed to supplement the list of defence supplies which, when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine and supplied in the customs territory of Ukraine, are exempt from taxes on added value by additional types of defence supplies. This includes the following: tyres and tires for military equipment used for defence purposes (we added the code needed); radio electronic combat, radio suppression, tranging, directional listening equipment, ultra-short wave radio and shortwave range of military assignment, and reconnaissance and signalling equipment. Please go to the amendments. Just one correction, and we've taken it completely into account. That's why we can vote. At its meeting on February 22, the Committee considered a comparative table and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u203	Thank you. Colleagues, the only amendment is taken into account and we can go to the vote. I'm asking you to take up your jobs and get ready. Colleagues, please enter the hall, take up jobs. This is a matter of exemption from taxation of defence supplies. It's a matter of security and defense, colleagues. And I ask you to participate in the vote with discipline. And I put to the vote draft Law 4915 (Deputy) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support our fighters. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:46:13]] For 212 If, colleagues, I'll be back in a moment. Please. All right, I'll give it to you, ladies, colleagues. Please, 1 minute, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, we had our last concern about tires. We've clarified the code, and these are the tires that are used exclusively for military technology. We complemented by the words "in case of supply of such goods, they are made for public defence contractors." We even ruled out the possibility of being swept away by a loved one. That's what always stopped us from voting and adopting these norms. Everything else is exclusive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u205	Colleagues, now I'm going to give the factions a minute and then put them on return. So the Burgundy Minute, then the Pashinsky, then Cersei Sobolev, then Melniczuk, and then we go to the vote. Please, in a minute. I'm in a hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u206	Colleagues, I want to draw your attention to the wrong path we're taking. In this case, money for defense orders is allocated from the state budget. Taxes on added value are paid to the state budget. From the point of view of the budget. There is no logic in exempting VAT. The only logic is that whoever's paying this isn't budget money, and then this is, excuse me, a scheme that we're trying to legitimize in the hall right now. I'm gonna say it again. The VAT money will be paid from the budget into the budget. And it doesn't make any sense to exempt this product from taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u207	Sergei Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u208	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we've re-examined the codes listed here. For example, 8517 home telephones, cell phones, smartphones, and so on. Code 8525. Home TVs, videos, and digital cameras. I'm absolutely in agreement with my colleague George. In order for us not to go into the issue of abuse, when it comes to actually being bought, we need to expand or expand the code to ten-digit, as it is installed and it makes it impossible to abuse here. And then there's the choice to vote for the second reading again. In this version of abuse, it's going to be obvious, and in the form of a product that's being purchased, I've only called you two codes. I can continue to call codes where it's a direct warning that it's a common technique, how it's going to go either to use, for example, the Armed Forces, or to other needs, incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u209	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u210	We specify codes or we act on a pattern that has always worked. The state budget pays this, taxes are paid to the state budget, and there will be no questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u211	Sergey Melniczuk a minute. Then Pashinski, then Chicken, and then we go to the vote. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u212	I really want to support the idea of paying the tax, it's translated from one pocket to another in the government budget. From. And it's okay. And this will be the security that, for example, car tires on MAZ, on the one hand, will be militaryly assigned, and on the other hand will be civilian. It's the same for all the other technology that's been listed. Rather, let it be translated, let it be electronically translated from one place to another, but only a national military order not to go out of that framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u213	Pashinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! I am grateful to the previous speaker, the right questions, and they need to be answered. It's number one. This is distributed exclusively to what is included in the state defense order. The state defence procedure is clear, transparent, and the members of the Defence and Security Committee control it, and the members of the Budget Committee also control it. Paragraph two, on the payment of VAT. Once again, it's not a secret that we've never been supplied with air weapons before. But those who said to Mrs. Jujanina, those standards are REB, that's the connection now, are signing contracts for not state budget costs, not government budget costs, these groups of goods will be placed in Ukraine. In the state defense order, there's no such cost for this payment, we just don't get this technique, it's intergovernmental agreements. I don't want to call countries, it's a secret, it's an intergovernmental agreement, it's not financed by our government, and we don't have the money to blur it out. For help: All who served in the army understand that it is one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u215	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u216	That one of the biggest problems is the connection. To make it clear, we need a billion dollars and a dose of $300 million this year to provide a new military liaison. Dear friends, I'm calling the hall again. Support this bill, it only spreads to what's in the state defense order, and it's about specific groups that I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u217	Thank you. So the last one is Chicken, turn on the microphone. And in a minute, I'll put the vote back. Please come into the hall. Please, Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, no cell phones are involved, since public defense orders do not buy mobile phones, it is a distortion of facts from previous speakers. This is the first time. The second is what this bill is about. This is a specific device: radio electronics, listening devices, Trankng State, intelligence devices, and radio electronics for military purposes that are not produced in Ukraine. Moreover, the tax exemption for the added cost of blurry will mean that we can save money from the State Defense Order, and buy more for our military equipment to beat the enemy more quickly. Friends, don't speculate, don't twist the facts, we vote "yes" unanimously to win Ukraine over the enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u219	So, colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on factions. Now, I'm going to make an offer to go back to voting for a committee proposal, and I'm going to ask you to support it. Everyone made their offer. So I'm proposing to go back to the committee's proposal for a 4915 parliamentary draft of the Tax Exemption Act with the added value of defence assignment products. Please vote, please support, colleagues, vote. Please be supportive. [[13:53:47]] For-179 Colleagues, if I re-read it, will it be supported? Second reading again, colleagues, please prepare. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm making the next proposal under the Rules, draft Law 4915. The proposal for re-reading, please vote, please support not to lose the bill, colleagues, please support. The committee's working fast. For the second reading again, 4915 MPs, please vote, please support. Let's vote on the second one again. [[13:54:42]] For 196 Colleagues, well, what's the point, we agreed you'd back up the second? Colleagues, colleagues, I'll ask you again, now read again, I'm asking you to support me. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. I'm asking you to back up the second reading so we don't lose the bill. I ask you not to leave the hall, but to come in, colleagues. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this proposal, this is a matter of defence and security. Now that the MPs are in the hall, I'm giving the head of the Security and Defence Committee one minute. One minute, Pashinsky, I'll be back in a minute. Please come into the hall. Pashinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you not to reject this law. I heard the position of the Self-Help faction. All complete comments to the authorized persons will be made, only after that do I ask you to make a decision. Once again, it's about foreign governments going to meet us, giving us financial resources to supply their technology, you know? And we don't have the money for these in the budget in the dose, to pay for this VAT. We have resources that fund us. Do not reject this law, we will not be able to implement a contract of hundreds of millions of dollars on very favourable terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u221	Replica, one minute. I'm telling you, replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u222	Fellows, I would like to pay your attention if we have important contracts for which we are offered arms, and there is no problem, including now in the budget, paying the added value tax, and you're saying that you don't have that tax, there's no problem making any changes, because that doesn't require any additional public budget expenditure. That's the situation where a government budget is costing one of its own bills at another account, it doesn't need money. If it is technically necessary to provide additionally in the schedule, the Supreme Council can accept and anticipate these additional costs because they do not affect the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u223	So, colleagues, now I give the floor to the head of the committee, we've already exchanged, factions, thoughts, now the head of the committee will say the summary words. And I'm asking you a lot of questions, when I put the proposal on the second again, this is the ability to make all the adjustments, this is a constructive proposal. Please support everyone. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, these bills have been worked out on the committee. And the colleague who had just given his speech was. I could have joined this job. Why didn't we write more numbers in the code? Because there's a warning that if. The supply of goods is made for public defence contractors. This means that no GTD will be produced, a cargo-mite declaration, without a package of documents to confirm that this is an order from the Ministry of Defense. This means that free circulation or other uses will by no means yield. Moreover, if such an article is not budgeted for the cost of this VAT, what has just been said is that it is from one pocket to another, it does not happen immediately. This can be done as a result of adjustments when these payments arrive in other and other tax periods. So this system doesn't work immediately, it's ideal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u225	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u226	We don't do that. So excuse me, if there are clear safeguards of abuse, such a standard that is very enlightened, if there is a sufficient package of documents, only then is the product formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-16-m0.u227	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a compromise proposal to return to the second reading. Please pick it up, support it, security and defense. So there is, first, a return to voting. I'm asking my colleagues to support me. We'll go back, then we'll go back to the second. I'm asking you to vote for the return to 4915-d, and I'm asking you to support me. Please vote, colleagues, return to 4915-d. Please be supportive. Please vote, we're voting colleagues. [[13:59:47]] For 199 No votes. So, colleagues, draft Law 4915-d is rejected. And it's morning. [[B in m in s a l in]] The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work. I'd like everyone to come to the voting room at 4:00. Please.
