ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Please come in, fill in jobs and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration? Then we'll do it. Please take up jobs. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up, please. [[10:03:36]] 349 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, this is our plan today. There are five ratifications and there is general support. And we can take them, I think for a break. And there's a proposal, given that tomorrow's consideration is about second reading, which has a lot of rights, so that we can start today's review of the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services and finish it tomorrow. There are more than 500 rights in this bill. And it would be right if we could start it today, go through most of the rights, and tomorrow we're going to make a decision. And the other issues of the information block will be considered tomorrow. Such a plan is planned for today. I hope that we will be able to take a joint position with the whole room on ratification issues. It is an international policy that must unite all of us. I would like to take another look at these ratifications during the MPs' speeches so that we can go to a successful vote. Now, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak to the national deputies. And I'm asking everyone who wants to take part in this speech to prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. Colleagues, please participate in the recording. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich gives the word. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u2	Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska I want to talk to you today about quacks and checkers in lawsuits that are in line with the Eurooptimistic variety, and they're trying to convince society that it's unnecessary to protect human rights, that it's unnecessary to protect suspects' rights, that it's necessary to reborn the 17th year, that it's necessary to give the prosecutor a terrible mandate and the prosecution, and that it's necessary to reinstate the Czech Republic, which will persecute those who disagree with the authorities, those who don't like the prosecutors. I am talking about my colleague, my colleague and brother Andrew Lozov, who was so attacked by Europeans in the Ukrainian Parliament and civil society. In fact, this may not be the only amendment that the Ukrainian Parliament adopted yesterday as a form of judicial reform. In fact, no judicial reform has taken place for three years. There's the usurpation of the judicial branch of power, there's tyranny of prosecutors who've been pushing the sutures, and like balloons in the 17th, they're running around the country. There is the destruction of the legal system on which the State was founded. In fact, we can adopt a thousand good laws and laws, but if we don't change the staff in a row, they're going to lynch. And that's why there's the position of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, which we've been trying for three years to bring to our colleagues in Parliament that 100 percent of the judges need to be released. Consider what is happening: 90 percent of judges who judged members of the Dignity Revolution continue to administer justice. The two judges who sentenced Attorney General Lucenk are now in the new composition of the Supreme Court. And you're talking about some kind of justice, you're talking about some kind of Eurooptimism. But the checkers you're in the lawsuits, and you're turning the country into a Bolshevik U.S.R.R., and we're not going to let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u3	Eutusek passes it to Sergio Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I think what happened yesterday, as they are now trying to get away from the filth they brought into the Criminal, Civil and Procedural Codes, is still a story to tell. But I'll tell you what happened. Let's do it by name and by amendment. You remember how much tears you shed here about the need to confiscate Janukovich’s property and his gangs, as we were forced to do here by the Law on Special Confiscation, as we were told that this must be done immediately. We did so in a civil way, as recommended by the European Commission and the European Court of Human Rights. We introduced the principle of civil confiscation of looted property. And yesterday, the Opposition Block, by amending Mr. Dobrenkov, led all accomplices to Janukovich's crimes under responsibility. How did he do that? It's very simple. Now in the Civil Procedure Code, so-called bound and third parties are not subject to confiscation, so everything that Mr. Janukovic and his gang have rewrote to others can now not be confiscated. And this is why the People's Front faction, which has so much to say about the special confiscation, is voted by Peter Prashenko's Block, which has so much to say about the special confiscation, and is voted for by the Opposition Block, along with two groups of former regions. The circle's locked. Was it not a conspiracy that now led to the production of dozens and dozens of criminals who were involved in adventures, affairs, and thefts of state property during Yanukovich? But that is not all. In fact, after yesterday's code decision, we had a situation where all the bodies involved in the investigation were paralyzed. Without the establishment of the State Bureau of Investigation, there is now no Ministry of Internal Affairs, no BSC or prosecutorial authorities or NAB authorities have the right to continue investigations into cases if these cases have not been investigated within two months. We actually have a situation where everyone who shot people on the Maidan and those who stole billions of dollars is responsible, which is what was adopted in these codes. I think we're going to know everything right now, literally in the first month, and you're going to realize that you've stressed what judicial reform is like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u5	Valérie Paccan gives the floor to Saul’s speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u6	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. My fellow Members, I would like to thank every national MP who supported the pension reform yesterday, because I believe that in the pension reform we have adopted a number of important norms that, firstly, restore social justice, secondly, give our Ukrainian pensioners an opportunity, at least a little, to get a pension. But the real reformer thing, I think, that allows us to talk today about yesterday's vote as a real reform, was that the Ukrainian Parliament considered amendment 1580, the amendment of more than 60 people's deputies for the implementation of the mandatory accumulation of the pension system from January 1, 2019. I want to say that the implementation of this system is one of the key socio-economic reforms that will take place in our country. I would like to point out that alongside the fact that a future Ukrainian pensioner is getting constant information about the size of his pension, how much of his pension income is on these pension returns? In addition to the fact that a future Ukrainian pensioner will realize that the funds in his pension account are not missing, in the event of a temporary death may be inherited. In addition, I want to say that pensioners' costs are the costs that will work in the Ukrainian economy, and the costs of non-state pension funds are the core costs, the institutional costs that are the key investment costs in the Ukrainian state. According to our estimates, starting on January 1, 2019, when the accrual pension system is in operation, in the next 10 years about one trillion dollars will arrive in the Ukrainian economy. This is more than all the money that Ukraine will use from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. In view of this, I am addressing the Ukrainian Government, the Ukrainian Parliament, as soon as possible, to introduce bill 6677 of co-authorship over 60 national deputies, which clearly regulates and regulates the establishment of a mandatory accumulation system. Because it is not just me, but most of the fellow national MPs that we fully believe that this reform will be the key driver of economic reforms in Ukraine for the next decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Halasjuk Viktor Valeriovich gives the word Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, yesterday's parliament, honourable Ukrainians, yesterday's decision by parliament on pension reform is an extremely important decision. I am very pleased that thanks to the amendments, thanks to our persistent struggle with our team, we have been able to achieve results that have not been achieved in 26 years of independence in the matter of pension insurance. First, this is the implementation of article 46 of the Constitution, when social payments are made, pensions cannot be below the subsistence minimum. All of it. From now on, no matter how much I train you, no social assistance, no disability, no other category of citizens below the minimum wage. One and a half million people in Ukraine received 949 dollars of pension. Thanks to our struggle, there will now be at least 1450. This is a major solution to the problem for millions of people who receive cash pensions. Second, a balance sheet that reaches every person. Every time I meet, they tell me, well, what is it, I've worked for someone who hasn't worked, and we get a pension the same way. Why a person who has spent his life paying contributions to the Pension Fund is then paid a pension to someone who has done nothing. For us, it's crucial that we cancel the balance so that the pension is paid depending on the length of the job, the working conditions. Millions of pensioners, 10.5 million when the government implemented a pension reform project, were to be recalculated by 9 million pensioners. As a result of our amendments, 10.5 million pensioners will receive an increase in pensions. And these millions of people are solving the main problem -- they're removing the balance sheet to make the pension pay depending on the job experience, the working conditions. Third, the key. Nearly 150,000 retired women took 30 percent of their pension because they retired at the age of 55. We took down the problem. Now all Ukrainian women will receive their full pension. Next. Taking into account the length of college education in the insurance system, which grants the right to receive pensions. Soldiers, the Chernobylites, are to be recalculated. The prosecutors, the judges, the officials, all the laws, the laws that everyone wrote for himself. Now everyone has to get a pension according to one law, depending on his job and working conditions. And finally, if there's to be a normal pension, you have to have one: pay. We're fighting to raise wages so that these salaries are legal, so that they're paid honestly, so that there's a record in the workbook, so that you don't get greedy for the bread and then you retire and you get a copy of the allowance. We're for being high in pensions and wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u9	Artushenko. Passes the word to Hotcharyenku for the speech. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u10	Thank you. Goncharekno, the faction of Peter Dustenka. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome all of the Ukrainians and all of us to the fact that yesterday we adopted two very important reforms: the court and the pension. Look, we've all been told that the Supreme Council is ineffective, that it's incapable of making decisions in one month, despite a raging sabotage, we've adopted three, three important reforms: education, court, pension. I'd like to talk about pension reform. Now there are myths here that, you know, are amazing, how can you make that up? First, let every Ukrainian citizen hear us: there will be a census in October, and in October Ukrainian pensioners will receive higher pensions. That's the first one. Second, no human will receive less as a result of reform. Third, 10 million Ukrainians will receive more as a result of the reform. Fourthly, 5 million 200,000 Ukrainians are going to get an improvement in pensions and start to receive an average of 500 to 700 dollars more than they've been given so far. Fifth, the tax on working pensioners is being taxed. Tell me, here I've listed all five points, how can I be against that? But we saw that we had two factions: the Fatherland faction and the Opposition Block faction -- and we didn't vote for this very important reform. What has been going on for a month in the Supreme Council? Sabotage took place when thousands of amendments blocked the issue of pension reform. And the amendments were absolutely correct. Why do I say sabotage? I want to remind you that the word "sabotage" comes from the old French word "sabo" is a wooden tower. This is when workers in the 18th century put wooden shoes in a weaving machine to break it. And so now the representatives of our part of the opposition have used their "trees" amendments to put it in the mechanism of the Supreme Council's law-making body and break it. Why do I say tree repairs? Look, change the word "appearing" to "coming," "not coming" to "not coming," "tucking" to "strengthen," "strengthening" to "strengthen" and so on and so forth. Excuse me, is this the Supreme Council or the beginning circle? And we saw when the Supreme Council spent a month doing this "stupid" instead of moving on to pension reform. But it didn’t work, and we joined together, and we accepted an extremely important reform. I thank everyone who voted for her. I thank the government, I thank the President. I am sure that together with such steps we will really make Ukraine strong and prosperous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u11	Cugella Alexander Volodymyr, please. He's handing it over to John Krulkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u12	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, we've just heard someone who hasn't been saving for "Russian peace" for a long time now stands for judicial reform. He doesn't care what language it's gonna be, what words it's gonna be, what terms it doesn't matter, because it's "Russian peace" forever. Isn't it? Now the second thing I'd like to say. On September 29, the President signed a decree establishing a Supreme Court of Intellectual Property in Ukraine. These are two special courts created by the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act: the Supreme Court of Intellectual Property and the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So there's no question about the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. This issue is blocked in Parliament. The bill, which was introduced by a number of national deputies and coauthored by the bill, is not being considered in the session room. Why? Because there may be a unique thing: they will suddenly elect the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court at a fair competition, and these judges will not be under the control of the Bank. That's the main problem. That is why the Supreme Anti - Corruption Court Act is not put to the vote, and that law should solve the main problem. Those who have committed corruption should answer to the law rather than avoid accountability. Although you know, respected colleagues, respected friends, and, above all, Ukrainians? After yesterday's judicial reform, and I don't even know if this country needs a higher anti-corruption court. Because after the 109th amendment that every corrupter can escape responsibility for a period of time, if two months didn't make a suspicion, maybe we don't need any courts? Because what can be done? You could, for example, refer the matter to the CISE expert, who will be the only one to do the expertise, and this expertise will be done over the years, the case will be closed, the corrupter will escape responsibility. But the most important, most important and cynical thing that has been done: according to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Constitution, if conditions are eased for those who are subject to prosecution under the Criminal Code, then the law - reverse action in time - may be in effect. Thus, the law that you all voted in favour of judicial reform will relieve all the criminals of the Yanukovic regime, all those who killed Ukrainians in Maidan. Here's what you did with your 109th amendment -- you actually relieved all the criminals of the Yanukovich regime, and that was a conspiracy with the Oposlak who voted for this judicial reform. I want to say that yesterday there was a terrible crime against the memory of all those who died on Maidan dignity! And so the only thing I can do is ask the President of Ukraine to commit this law and bring it back to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kota.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Andrew Keith, strike group, Stryshtyn. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that last year our Supreme Council adopted Ukraine's budget. In Ukraine’s budget, the development costs of the agro-industrial complex should already be at least 1 percent of the gross domestic product. And it was done for the first time in many, many decades. Last year we spent more than 6 billion dollars on agro-industrial development financing. We've set priorities for the development of an agro-industrial complex with you, which is that we've determined the development of agriculture, we've determined the development of cooperatives, we've determined the development of small and medium-sized businesses. Moreover, we have even been able to determine for this year the restrictions on the use of funds by one legal person on. from the Ukrainian economy's grant regime. But what did we get on the way out, my dear? We got at the conclusion that more than a third of the reverse grant budget this year, a third of the budget, which was aimed at developing an agro-industrial complex, received two enterprises, which are actually monopolists in the Ukrainian chicken market. As a result, we got instead of getting the cost of Ukrainian products for our low-income people, that's why we did it. We've had a road trip, think, a 40 - percent chicken trip this year! This means that we declare that we are raising our pension by 20 percent, and we have already raised the cost of a consumer basket for our simple pensioner by 40 percent thanks to our respectable monopolies. What are we doing?Oh, my God! I urge everyone not to allow again this year's perverting and the use of monopolies on the state grant that we have beaten up with you to develop our village. Not to fill pockets of people who don't need anything. We talk a lot to you about European choice, about European practice. So I want to make it clear to everyone that there is no company in any country of the world that receives an 80 million dollar budget subsidy. So there is no such thing in any country of the world, I repeat. If we take Poland, companies that own financial IROs have no right at all to even participate in state subsidies. I therefore urge everyone to make appropriate amendments to the budget of Ukraine now, to the Budget Code. And don't let the pollination or financing of industries that are actually taking advantage of our simple consumers. We have to do this once and for all before we never come back. Next. We should encourage the development of our own food sector not only through subsidies, but through a world practice that defines simple things, such as reducing VAT for internal processing in the field. That's true again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u15	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u16	This is the way all of Europe goes. And it's the only way that allows us not to export the product, but to leave it with us, in the country. So let's not allow monopolistic profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Today, on World Animal Protection Day, we want to welcome the entire zoological community to the day of animal protection. I welcome all my colleagues to the fact that we have adopted a law that was about humane treatment of animals. But this law does not work today, since law enforcement agencies do not register violations of animal treatment by citizens’ organizations. And I also want to point out to the zoologists that today we're going to put out on Facebook all their wishes, what they're proposing when we're considering this bill, when we're looking at it, all the things that they're proposing. So please communicate and by the end of the week we'll have a series of laws that will be in the field of animal regulation, animal protection, diversity and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u19	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Kupreia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I'd like to welcome today's Peter Prashenko Block and, personally, Ruslan Knazevitch with the approval of the so-called judicial reform. Not waiting for the President’s signature of this law, which was passed yesterday, some judges began to enforce the law and protect us from corruption. Recently, the judge of the Court of Thessaloniki in Kiev passed a decision obliging NABU detectives to start an investigation against Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. I'm going to remind you of the schemes by which he swindled the land in the Kingdom village in Kiev, by entering the housing and building cooperative above the management of Roshen. These are events of a decade ago, but a very interesting situation is about to take place. But how did I come and make this decision mere? I showed the judge that the Attorney General was being tried to remove the inviolability and the criminalization of Michael Dobkin's arrest. This is a similar 100 percent submission that worked, and the judge is now forced to investigate cases and powder. But what I want to tell you is, when we're dealing with a situation where there's no justice in Ukraine, there's a very big problem in the courts. I think it's the biggest problem in the DA's office. Stepa, Lavrinovich on the loose, there's a lot of corruption. This only goes on, it's a decision made when there's a conspiracy with prosecutors, when there's a clean one, which means water contracts. Why? Because it is possible to open criminal proceedings under 375 articles against a court judge who has made a predetermined unjust decision, a complaint can be lodged with the prosecutor in the High Qualifying Commission or the High Council of Justice. It's not happening. We don't know anything about any of this. That's why it's definitely a deal either for the money the corrupter split, or someone called the polls at the President's Administration, maybe even from Putin or LNR, DNR, and they're letting the separatists go free. Moreover, the prosecutor’s office does not do that at all. He's on it. does not do anything to eliminate crime. You know, on the UKROP party that we have now, we're actually being killed by our members, which means cars are being blown up, they're being prosecuted, they're faking criminal cases, and they're clearly doing what Banks orders are doing, and that clearly doesn't affect the reputation of the state of Ukraine. I believe that the state of crime in the country is responsible for the fact that all matters concerning the national MPs, the removal of the inviolability will fall apart, is borne personally by the Attorney General of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. And he has to think or start working, or we have to decide to resign him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u21	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Balicki People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u22	Dear friends, there was an environmental disaster in Zaporozhye. Unfortunately, that is not the case with television today, especially when it comes to a governor who is directly involved. Look at the state of the promo, the deaths of millions of tons of small fish, millions of tons of fish that could put hundreds of millions of dollars in our country's budget. There is no money available for the FTT today. A year ago, I was standing in this rostrum and told them that it would take money to at least partially clear the promo that connects the Milky Liman to the Azova Sea. Unfortunately, no money has been allocated. Today, too, there's not a penny in the budget to be allocated to the FTT and to work. There's only money for wages. We'll never be able to save that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u23	I'm sorry. Please turn off the microphone. Dear reporter, I ask you to speak in public at the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, you can continue in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u24	I'm not talking about politics. Listen, it's about the whole region. What are you doing? Does that make no difference to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u25	Please turn off the microphone. Dear reporter, I repeat, you are in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u26	I think I'm going to speak in Ukrainian, and Parliament will accept it, accept it, and accept the people of Ukraine. But the main thing that we want to do today is to address the people of Ukraine, which, in fact, the reforms that we have adopted are positive, and sooner or later this should be positive. And it's a pleasure that all of us who voted in favour of the reform that we've shown the people of Ukraine, that today Parliament is active, and that's not really the point. I think we need to adopt reforms, if even they're not so funny, not the kind of reforms that we need to have today and that we want to see them from these reforms, but we have to take some steps, and these steps should give, indeed, a better life to the Ukrainian people. We've shown a great result. In just a month's work of the seventh session, we have adopted three significant reforms: education, court and pension. But such a pace should be the rule, not the exception. Because as soon as we can, we need to consider and work on and approve medical reform, it's Law 6327. I would like to remind you that medical reform provides a new form of financing for the health system. The money will be provided from the health care budget, not to support the city's bed. Citizens will be able to choose a hospital and a doctor to meet their needs without hindrance. This will create competition, raise the motivation of the physician himself for professional growth, more patients -- more money to raise the wages of the most effective doctors. This approach will strengthen the image of the doctor’s profession and help to change the face of the Ukrainian health system. At the same time, the Supreme Council has already received a draft budget for 2018, and before its final adoption, it is necessary to allocate adequate funds for the implementation of medical reform as early as 1 January 2018, and this cannot be done without the adoption of basic law 6327. I stress that the life expectancy of Ukrainians is 10 years less than that of an average European. That's why I think we should move on to this reform and do everything we can to ensure that this bill is adopted by our Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Please welcome to the speech of the National Shepherd. National MP Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday the Council, and more loyally those criminals who destroyed the Ukrainian state for 15 years, along with the BPP, the Opposition Block, destroyed the Ukrainian state without an enemy, destroyed the Ukrainian judicial system yesterday. A person is born with the right to freedom and justice, a person trusts the state only when he is confident that the judge is just, independent, and protected. Only then does a person trust the state when he realizes what tools he has to defend himself in court and in the investigation did you ruin it yesterday. Today, a Ukrainian person is helpless in front of a totalitarian machine. We don't need a war today. It happened yesterday. You're sitting here today and you're not even talking about it. There are no independent judges in Ukraine, and soon there will be no judges, for the election to the Supreme Court shows this. Yesterday, after destroying the trial, you don't release, but you justify without trial and investigation the people who killed Ukrainian boys on the front who killed Ukrainian boys in the Sky 100 at Maidan. You release, you justify those for whom you voted with such an aplomb here, without being touched. You justify all those wanted by all four attorney generals after Maidan. There's no need for war, it ended yesterday in the name of the enemy. The President has no right to sign the law. The head of the Supreme Council has no right to sign the law and bring it here and correct it. Because if that doesn't happen and there won't be a fair trial in Ukraine, there will be no fair investigation and no defense tool, then there will be a terrible thing that will destroy the institutional state. There will be self-judgement, and you are the cause of this destruction. Today, when you connect with the BP and the Opposition Block, you destroy the next city in the country of Mikolayev. When Santa has chosen a mayor and you use a corrupt relationship to destroy this self - control structure and self - control. You are the destroyers of the Ukrainian state, and don't say the word "Glory to Ukraine!" After that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u29	Colleagues, speaking time is over. But another statement came to the fore about a break from two factions: A radical party and Self-Help. And they're replacing the break for the performance, and I'm giving the floor to the speech of Halasyuk. Colleagues, and in a few minutes, we're moving on to the agenda, the ratifications. That's why I'm asking you to invite all the deputies to the hall. Both the Supreme Council Secretariat and the factions' heads, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Mr. Victor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, Parliament made a very important state decision that enabled 10.5 million Ukrainians to receive higher pensions and social assistance. It's our salary to those people, our grandparents who made it, to build the country that we live in today. And that's just the first step. The next step we are obliged to take with you is to raise the minimum wage to 5,000 dollars next year. There are opportunities to do so, and that is what needs to be done. This must be done in order for the economy to develop and for people to live with dignity. In order for the industry to work fully, we need to start the engine of the Ukrainian economy -- the Ukrainian industry. And for that, our team, the Radical Party faction, offered an industrial reform package. This is a set of priority legislative initiatives that will move from the point of development of the Ukrainian industry to the European orbit of economic development. Please look at this graph. First. Free to join engineering networks. Stop the robbery of investors that exists today from the monopolies in Ukraine when a new factory is being built, when a new large agrarian complex is being built, and so on, pay bribes, build an investor with its own costs, and then donate a monopoly. We'll put an end to this. The Monopolist compensates the investor for the cost incurred in creating this object. Free networking is in the United States, is in Israel, we want to do so in Ukraine to attract investment. Today there will be a bill in Parliament entitled "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians". Its initiators are also our team of the Radical Party, but it is supported by all factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. And we are very grateful to our colleagues. In order for Ukrainian producers to win bids on government purchases in their own country, so that they don't need to buy imports, but rather to give jobs to Ukrainians, to pay, to load factories to change the formula of government purchases. Instead of just counting the price, the localization, or use of Ukrainian resources, is counted. It's very important. Third. These are affordable loans. You and I in this room have passed the Export Credit Agency Act. The government must create it within the next few months. Prime Minister Groissman has personally promised that this will be done shortly. Four. Investment incentives to create new productions in Ukraine, industrial parks and the removal of import duties for manufacturing equipment in Ukraine. This will allow us to compete with Turkey, with Poland, with Slovakia, to create production and jobs for us. And finally, the fifth. It's a currency deregulation to remove Nazbank's artificial limitations so that the currency enters Ukraine and the economy works for people and we raise wages and pensions regularly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u31	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, five ratifications. I'm going to ask you to consider them for a reduced procedure. I hope to understand the hall and that we can get through. Don't leave! Dear colleagues and fellow national deputies, do not leave the hall! I ask you to come into the hall, take your jobs and get ready for the vote. So, first of all, we are in line with the daily draft Law on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments. And I'm asking the room to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please take all your jobs and support this offer, colleagues. So, can we vote? Please support 0149, summary procedure. Please vote. [[10:46:46]] For-125 Not all of them have made it. I'll wait another minute. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, ratification issues are a matter of our international authority, and we should all be here to act together. I ask you now to mobilize and support this proposal. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please show the factions how to vote. Peter Poshenko's Block, 51. We need to mobilize! 51, Ira! People's Front – 44, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 9, Radical Party – 10, Fatherland – 1, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth – 2, non-faction – 7. Colleagues, let's mobilize. Ivan, let's get together. We do it every time. That's how it started, and we went out in voices. We have to leave Friday working, friends. Let us mobilise, and I ask everyone once again to support the draft Law 0149 – ratification between the government of Ukraine and the government of Croatia. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:48:34]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Nephrodov's First Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Maksim Evgenovich. Colleagues, and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall so we don't put any ratifications at risk. I'm asking the factions to maximize human mobilization. Mr. Maxim, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! The bill provides for the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Ukrainian-Croatian Investment Agreement on 15 December 1997. These changes include, first, improving the provisions on the granting of the national regime and the most favourable regime for the non-proliferation of preferences or privileges to investors and investors on the basis of any other international agreement or arrangement; secondly, extending the means of regulating investment disputes, adding the possibility of attracting investors to national courts and national commercial arbitration institutions; thirdly, introducing measures in the interests of the security of the State, including customs economic and monetary restrictions; and fourthly, imposing restrictions on the extension of the agreement on investors who have the nationality of a non-contracting State. Also during the ratification of the Additional Protocol, it is proposed to make a statement that the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments does not extend to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol until its jurisdiction is restored. In addition to the existence of armed aggression in the areas of individual areas of Donetské and Lugansk, the Ukrainian government does not guarantee full and effective protection of investments in these areas. Such a statement would avoid possible investment disputes, as well as inform the Croatian side of the legal regime in force in those areas. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the bill will enhance investment cooperation between the two states, please accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u33	Thank you for the report. And I would like to invite you to the report of a member of the Committee on European Integration, Ms. Olen Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. Ratification will allow the implementation of an additional protocol on the granting to investors of both states of the regime of the greatest promotion and national regime, the procedures for regulating investment disputes, and will avoid possible investment actions involving parts of Ukraine: the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol and the separate areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, pending the restoration of Ukraine’s jurisdiction over them. Such decisions, the committee decided to support the protocol, and such a decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Kuprienko gives the floor to Oleg Valeriovich Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! You and I are considering ratifying the Agreement on the involvement of investments in Croatia. Our faction will certainly support this bill. It's great when it's possible for Ukraine to make foreign, foreign investments. But the key to our country's development is internal investment. Because if there is no production, when Ukrainians are unemployed, without pay, without the ability to feed their family, no foreign investment will help us. Look at the economy of the United States, look at the economy of the European Union, Japan -- they have a stake on their own national producer! Our team suggests: Enough to go around the world, enough to borrow, enough to beg! We need to capture ourselves. That's why I want to say it again. The Radical Party team thanks all other deputies to the various factions that supported our bill. The historic bill that we want to register in our parliament is called "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians." The bill's goal is to create jobs for Ukrainians, restore the national economy, modernise the core funds, which unfortunately are obsolete, raise wages, raise Ukrainian income, increase the export potential of the country's home country, increase foreign exchange. That's what "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians" means. If we buy, produce Ukrainian goods when we pay Ukrainians, when Ukrainians receive decent pensions, then Ukraine will be rich, powerful, independent. No one in the world needs beggars. We want the whole world to respect us, we need to be strong. We will only be strong if we earn money if we believe in our own strength, when we buy Ukrainian and pay the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich of the "Fatherland" faction passed on to Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u38	This agreement is an excellent example of a country that has been able to become a member of the European Union and NATO in 10 years of real reform, not of what the Ukrainian Parliament imitates. A country that has not made any agreements with an aggressor but that has mobilized all its forces and has been able to prove that only a strong nation can defend its national interests. It is a country in which the courts act, not on principle, as the President of the country or government has said, but on the principle of the rule of law. And I think the ratification of this agreement will be an unnecessary example of how reforms should be implemented and how the judicial system should be reformed. Because in Croatia, even in a terrible dream, entrepreneurs cannot imagine that investment coming from other countries will be arrested for the harm of the country’s oligarchs because they are not in nature. That's why our faction will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. And I think that the example of Croatia for us is one of the examples where real reforms give real progress and real progress in the future country. Please support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three or four minutes. I'm asking you to tell the national deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs. I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall as much as possible. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich, the block of Petra Dustenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u40	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. On such an important issue, please pass on the word of the terrace to Jurik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u41	The Petra Dustenka bloc will support this ratification. This ratification is aimed at updating the agreement between Ukraine and Croatia in the field of investment protection. In particular, the contract will clearly spell out the term "free convertible currency", which will make it much easier to invest and use funds between states. And an important complement is the term "no delay" that legally reinforces the need for a quick solution to issues in bilateral investment relations. Additionally, additions to the treaty involve the introduction of occupied parts of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, as well as Crimea, into territories where the document will not temporarily take effect. An important addition in the updated edition will be the articles on the most supportive regime and the new rules on dispute resolution. This will allow the protection of a foreign investor in Ukraine, which will greatly enhance the image of the domestic investment market for our Croatian partners. Thus, we continue to deepen our close economic cooperation not only with the European Union but with its individual members. This will speed up the integration of the Ukrainian economy into the new reality, which will help bring additional funds into our country. With that in mind, the "Peter's Block" party. The faction of Peter Prashenko will support the Ratification Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u42	Thank you. And the closing statement from "self-help" by Olena Sotnik. And please invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u43	Thank you, Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. In fact, we are showing a very sharp increase in cooperation with Croatia, if we look at the balance of our bilateral relationship balance, we have a positive increase in favour of Ukraine. Moreover, trade with Croatia has grown by 65 percent. So clearly, the agreement will only strengthen this cooperation. We know of enough friendly treatment of us and of the authorities, of today's Croatian authorities, and the Prime Minister of Croatia, I recall, Andrew Plenkovic made his first official visit to Ukraine. So we'll very much expect that the agreement, it will further expand the possibilities for our investors and also for Croatian investors in Ukraine. However, I want to remind you that in fact, Ukraine remains this dark spot today for many investors in the world who would like to invest here but cannot. And two key obstacles are major corruption in the country, and the second is the lack of an effective judicial system. So not only do we need to work on individual agreements that create additional guarantees for individual investors, we need to work on systemic reforms within the country. And unfortunately, so far we're not moving at all in this direction, and yesterday's vote for the so-called judicial reform has shown that we're only making it worse that we're fighting corruption in the construction of independent courts. And separately, I would like to point out that I am very sorry that the Deputy Minister of Economics, and in principle, that this agreement does not refer to occupied territories, but refers to simply aggression in the territories of particular areas, of Lugansk and of Donetsk. We have to make it clear that these are occupied territories and.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I am convinced that ratifications and international agreements, and more ratification of the Additional Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Croatia, should unite the Hall, we just need the necessary level of discipline. I ask you to come into the hall, take your jobs and get ready for the vote. Minister, the minister's interested deputy minister to vote, release the national deputy. Oh, the card's there, isn't it? So, can we vote? Please mobilize and I put to the vote a draft law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments (number 0149). Committee proposal: in general. I ask you to take part in the vote and please support the committee's proposal. Colleagues, every voice has weight, every voice. Please vote, please support. [[11:02:00]] For a hundred and We didn't make it. We wait, we wait for the people's deputies. If you'd like to invite your colleagues into the hall, I'll ask them to come back. I'll show you by factions, please include, by factions. So, Block of Peter Poshenko is 42, National Front is 48, Opposition Block is 1, Self-help is 16, Radical Party is 12, Parenthood is 11, Will of the Nation is 2, Rebirth Party is 2. I think they just didn't make it, they didn't. Colleagues, there is no political pretext for not voting for this. Croatia is our trusted strategic partner, colleagues. Let us unite and support the return to the bill. I address all factions and all political parties. So, please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So, can we vote? What's it gonna do, Oksana? So you're ready to vote? Instead of fuelling interfractional hostility in the hall, deputy Eutusek, you need to unite. We need to gather around the issues that make Ukraine stronger, the whole of Ukraine. Not coalition or opposition, but all of Ukraine. Colleagues, please unite and I ask you to vote again. I see a number of deputies in the hall, not all of them, some of them not yet in place. So I propose to return to the draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia (0149). And I ask everyone to vote. Ruslan! Please mobilize, each voice has a weight, and I ask you to vote. Please all support, colleagues, we vote in favour of the return to draft Law 0149. Please vote, please support, vote. [[11:05:02]] For 209 There's potential. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. We'll wait. I don't think anyone's interested. Ma'am, Helen, make an inspection and invite everyone into the hall. And, colleagues, we'll wait another or two minutes, I'm asking you to call everyone who's not in the hall, ask them in the hall and ask everyone to maximize their mobility. The MPs are good. Please invite the deputies into the hall, we can't fail the ratification. Come on, Jonah, one minute. And once again, I'd like everyone to come to the hall. Colleagues, please, Jonah, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! Nevertheless, if we are talking about reforming our country, it is also the Association Agreement, and very important ratifications, and please, Mr. Speaker, remind all our national deputies that their responsibility is to go to work every day. And I ask all the deputies to come back from the dining room, drink coffee as much as we can, we don't have time at all! But you only talk, but you don't do anything. Please enter the hall and vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u46	Maxim Burbak, one minute. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I'm asking all the deputies to remember how they travel to Croatia in the summer. And I think they've rested there enough to work in the hall right now. At least two full-time jobs can be held in the workplace and voted in favour of such important bills and ratifications with our Western coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u48	So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back. Please, we're taking up jobs, I see a number of deputies have come up. Igor Šurma, one minute, and we move on to the vote. Please, one minute. And if you'd like to come into the hall, I'd like to invite the deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u49	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I am now addressing Ukrainian citizens who are always watching what is happening in the session room. I want to remind you that the Opposition Block always supports the ratification issue, because this is about the image of Ukraine in the international arena. But everything is a limit and everything is the end. As soon as Wednesday comes, people come out to the rostrum with something dark or full moon or something, and they start looking for an enemy in the person of the opposition block. So I'll tell you one person: "Sometimes I think there's some kind of brain center that works for the self-destruction of this state, not even with the hands of its enemies, but with the efforts of its own idiots here." That's what Lena Kostenko wrote. If you want to group all the people here, in the hall, stop looking for the enemy and consolidate your efforts. And you, when you need to run here and ask for a vote, and otherwise you call and stick your finger.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u50	So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Every voice, if you'll excuse me, has weight. Please. Please take all jobs. So everyone is in place, and I propose to go back to voting for the draft Law on Ratification of the Additional Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia (number 0149). Please vote. And every voice, society! Every voice! Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote! [[11:09:34]] For 216 [[B in m in s a l in]] We are close to making a decision. No, no, colleagues! We're recruiting deputies. Please don't leave the hall! Please don't leave the hall! Heads of factions, please be vigilant. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. We're missing a few votes. We give by factions, we have more. We'll wait a minute. They already had the word "Peter Prashenko's Block," "The People's Front," the opposition. One minute is Easy, one minute is Sergei Sobolev. And I'll put it back on, colleagues. I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall. Please. I give all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Head, fellow MPs! This vote, when we can't vote ten times on the Investments Agreement with Croatia, it demeans Ukraine, not Croatia. This demeans us. It's wrong, it's a demonstration of wrong behavior in front of our partners. I wanted to draw your colleague's attention to the words of our colleague Igor Shurma. He was absolutely right to say that where we are to unite for the sake of the country, we need to unite in order to adopt laws that will enable Ukrainians to live with dignity. Because it doesn't matter who people vote for, it's all Ukrainian, and it's our job to make them live with dignity. So I propose to unite, Your Honorable Fellow Shurm and your colleagues from the Opposition Block, to vote on an important investment bill so that the Ukrainian people have a job and a salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u52	So one minute is Sergei Sobolev. And let's go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. One minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a line. I'll give you a line. Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute. And I'd like you to invite all the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, after the 70 votes of the majority are not in this room to ratify the Agreement with Croatia, please contact the Opole. Just like you did yesterday. Turn around! They're doing well, they're making you suggestions. We don't have a thief block anymore. It turns out they're the sponsors. That's why I'm asking you to mobilize people. It is a shame when a coalition cannot find 70 votes during such important ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u54	Thank you. 30 seconds, Igor Shurma's lineup, and we vote. We're taking up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u55	I thank Oleg Valeriyovich Lachka for feeling these initiatives from us in the unification of the hall. But I appeal to him, for only today will he be heard, for his voices here are decisive. Ask your colleagues for more than 300 at the beginning of Parliament to stop sowing hostility and seek out enemies. Because what coalitions often do is even worse than when people don't vote. Stop insulting us, we'll join the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u56	So, colleagues, I'm voting now. Everyone, please take your jobs. Everyone, please come into the hall. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of the draft Act ratifying the Additional Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments (number 0149). Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice. We vote carefully, every vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:14:04]] For 225 One voice, I see, didn't make it. Please, colleagues, I see, I see, we're not there yet. I'm asking you to take jobs, colleagues. I ask everyone to vote carefully. I see we haven't made it. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft of Law 0149. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Every voice we vote carefully, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting back. [[11:14:48]] For 236 Decision taken. And I'm voting on draft Law 0149 on the proposal of a committee as a whole. I'd like you to support me as a whole. 0149, total. Please vote, please support. [[11:15:18]] For 238. The law is passed. Come on, guys, let's go. The factions, please show me. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 96, "National Front" – 59, "Block of Opposition" – 8, "Help" – 19, Radical Party – 14, "Fathership" – 11, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party of Rebirth" – 4. This brought the hall together. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the next ratification. I'm asking everyone to stay in the hall. We have four ratifications ahead of us. And I ask you not to sow conflict in the hall during discussions, but rather to unite. There is a further draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the implementation of paid activities by members of families of co-workers of diplomatic representations, consular institutions (number 0155). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:16:33]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u57	Good morning, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft proposed Ukrainian Law is designed to implement by the Ukrainian side the internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the implementation of paid activities by members of families of members of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions. This covenant was concluded on April 4, this year in Riga. This agreement concerns labour rights and, on the basis of reciprocity, will regulate the employment of family members of foreign diplomatic institutions of Ukraine and the Republic of Latvia in accordance with their legislation. The application of the agreement will contribute to the realization of the right to work, support the level of qualification and the possibility of further professional development by family members of Ukrainian diplomatic and consular institutions and the Republic of Latvia accordingly. The implementation of the agreement does not require additional costs from the state budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u58	Thank you. I invite the head of the European Integration Subcommittee, Biozr Oksana Volodymyr. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u59	Oksana Bilozer, the Peter Dust Block. Dear colleagues, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting on 5 September 2017, discussed the draft Law on Ratification (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the implementation of paid activities by members of families of members of diplomatic representatives, consular institutions and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. This decision of the committee is in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which supported the ratification of the agreement. The treaty proposed for ratification was signed in Riza on April 4, 17th, and its ratification will allow the internal procedures necessary to enter into force this agreement. The ratification of the agreement will also contribute to the further realization of the right to work, allowing for mutual legal basis for the employment of both members of the Ukrainian diplomatic service's families in Latvia and members of the Latvian diplomatic staff's families in Ukraine. The adoption of Ukraine's law will not require amendments to Ukraine's current legislation and the adoption of new legislation, nor will it result in additional financial and material costs. The income received by members of the families of members of the Latvian diplomatic service in Ukraine and Ukraine in the Republic of Latvia will be taxed on a general basis. Please support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u61	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, we presented today a bill called "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", whose purpose is to create jobs for our people, for Ukrainians, restore the Ukrainian economy in order not to walk, not to pick around the world. Now this historic bill is registered in the Supreme Council registration sector. And I thank three dozen national deputies who are aware of the need to employ Ukrainians, create working conditions for our people. I want to show you the idea of a bill called "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" on a specific example. Last week, I was in Zaporozhye with my colleagues, Viktor Halasyuk, Sergey Skuratowski. Zaporozhye, Mariupol, Kharkiv. But I'll tell you about the meeting in Zaporozhye. We're lucky to be on Zaporoztals and Motorsichi, the leading Ukrainian businesses. Zaporoztal, investors, owners invested 2 billion dollars and made a new domain stove. And today Zaporoztal has set a record for the sinking of 13,000 300 tons a day. I thank the famous band of Metallurgy Zaporoztals for these records in the name of Ukraine. And the second, no less famous, is the Motorsich, who released a new helicopter called Hope. It's not "Motorsichi" hope, it's just "Motorsichi", it's the hope of Ukraine, the hope of restoration, the hope of modernization, the hope of new jobs. Viacheslav Boguslaev, our distinguished colleague, told me, "In 26 years, the leading Motorslitch company has not received a single copy of the government's orders." We buy imports for budget money instead of supporting our Hope, our metallurgy, our builders, our miners, our helicopters. We need to feed our own, give our own work!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u62	Colleagues, closing statement. Slow down, please. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall. Last, closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u63	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Honourable People's Deputies, Your Honor, once we ratified the Treaty, Bill 0149, between the Republics of Ukraine and Croatia. And now it's equally important that we now have to vote with you and accept, between the Republic of Latvia and our government. We know very well how many diplomatic families work in Latvia and other republics. And that's why it would be very important today that the children of the workers, and practically everyone who works in Latvia, should have a proper job according to our ratification, according to the conditions between the government of our country and the government of Latvia. Therefore, members of the families of diplomatic workers, the staff of diplomatic services, must work legally and have, of course, a job. So I ask all of us to unite and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u64	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I invite you, please, Tarasjuk one more minute, and let's move on to the decision after that. Please invite everyone into the hall. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We are considering, from a human point of view, a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Latvia. It is a matter of satisfying the natural desire of a couple of diplomatic, consular, administrative, and technical workers working abroad on behalf of Ukraine to realize themselves during forced separation from work in Ukraine. The Fatherland faction supports the ratification of the agreement and asks everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u66	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, please take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia (number 0155) on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Please support, each voice has a weight, please vote, we are taking a very careful part in the vote. Vote colleagues, please support, let's reunite, please vote. [[11:26:05]] For 201 I'll be back in a minute. Please invite the deputies into the hall, I'll wait a minute, but in a moment please call your colleagues and invite them to the hall. So please invite the deputies to the hall. Please come to the hall, there will be a vote. Irina Lucenko. Mrs. Irina, if you'll excuse me for a moment, if you'll excuse me. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall. I ask you, colleagues, all to unite. The issue of ratification, which should unite rather than disunite. Please invite me to the hall, which is in the towers. And I'm betting on the vote, the colleagues, the return. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on Ratification between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia (0155). Please vote for the return, colleagues, and I ask for each vote. watch each voice carefully. Please support the return to 0155. Please support, please vote, vote. [[11:29:41]] For 219 Six votes, colleagues. Please show me the factions, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 58, "Resistance Block" – 1, "self-help" – 19, "Radical Party" – 16, "Fathership" – 12, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party "Resurrection" – 1. Guys, let's have another seven votes. Please, one minute, come into the hall, colleagues, don't come out, please. Taras, one minute, guys. Please take part in the vote, please prepare, colleagues. I offer once again and ask everyone to unite around this proposal, to return to draft Law 0155. I ask you all to support me, colleagues, I ask you to take this vote very carefully. Please vote, please support the return to 0155, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:31:05]] For 221 Please. Guys, just please don't leave the hall, Taras, please wait two minutes. Please, Oksana Bilozer, one minute. Call everyone in the hall and ask everyone to approach. One minute, Oksana Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I would like to support Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk and point out that this ratification applies to the families of our diplomatic and consular institutions. We know what conditions our diplomatic service is working today, which has enormous workload and little security from our Ukrainian state to the extent possible. See, the current legislation of the Republic of Latvia provides for the granting of a permit for foreign citizens to work in Latvia, according to a special Department of Citizenship and Migration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Latvia. Consideration of the relevant application for employment of foreign nationals may take up to three months, and obtaining such a permit is not guaranteed, for only for the availability of a vacancy if it is not claimed by a Latvian citizen. Therefore, this ratification alone will provide employment for families of diplomats working in consular and diplomatic institutions. The same is true of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u68	Thank you. I see a few deputies have arrived, and I think five votes we've missed are already in the hall. And so, colleagues, I'd like everyone to concentrate, mobilize, take jobs. And so I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 0155 to the vote. Colleagues, I ask that everyone vote carefully, please vote in favour of the return to debate 0155. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote. [[11:33:26]] For 225 I can see Ivan's missing. Ivan, I didn't make it. Please, colleagues! So, colleagues, Mr. John didn't make it, and I'm putting the vote back to 0155. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote return to 0155. Please vote. Be careful with every voice. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:34:08]] For 230 And now I'm putting draft Law 0155 as a whole. Please support in general, 0155 as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[11:34:31]] For 226 Decision taken. My colleagues, look, we have three more ratifications. Could it be that we, just one report, and a vote? Come on, guys, let's work it out. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'd like to consult with the hall right now. Please be in the hall. You see that every vote. Well, that's not pleasant for the Supreme Council. And that's why I'm now proposing two ways: either to go to the Trust Services Act, or to vote three ratifications. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't make noise, don't shout, colleagues! Now we can exchange thoughts. Let me do this: I'll do it now after the next ratification, it's 0154, I'll put a rating vote, it's Head's right, or we have enough votes. This is a draft of the Law on the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Turkish Republic. If the rating vote shows that there are enough votes, we go in, if the vote shows that it's not enough, we'll go to the question of second reading -- electronic trust services. It's a deal! Please mobilize yourself, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to a rating vote the question of draft Law 0154 to determine the level of support for this ratification and this law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:36:35]] For 232 We can come in, colleagues. Then I ask everyone to be disciplined in places, colleagues, and I very convincingly ask that the factions' heads stand at the door: no one is released from the hall, no one is working. [[Applause]] So, colleagues, I ask you to support the review of the shortened procedure of Law 0154. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Vote. [[11:37:14]] For 205 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Dugan Viktor Mikolaiovich. And I'd like to ask you very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to support the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on International Combined Transport. The deal was signed a year ago, on November 4, Istanbul. This will create a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation of important transport links between our countries and provide new opportunities for effective logistics solutions in organizing a transport process between Ukraine and Turkey, including additional volumes of transport and external economic goods from Europe to Asia. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u70	Thank you. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs on its meeting on September 6, this year, discussed the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on international combined transport. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, and then ratify the treaty. I'm not going to talk about the deal, that's what the deputy minister of infrastructure said, but I'd like to pay attention to the following. A month ago, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered this bill, and on the question of a representative or representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, and what this agreement gives specifically, we did not hear the answers in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And it took a month to get the information out of the Mini-Infrastructure, a little bit of information about what this deal was giving Ukraine. And it gives you increased licenses for the carriage of cars, it gives you an increase in the international volume of rail transport. So this is an important covenant. And I want to say that the same agreements are already in place with Austria, Azerbaijan, Hungary and other countries. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of this agreement. We ask the Supreme Council to support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Colleagues, are they willing to discuss? Yes. Please record: two in, two in. Jarinich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u73	Yeah. I'd like to give it to Teteruk Andrew. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u74	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow national deputies, is certainly a great step for Ukraine to establish close economic ties that will link our efforts with other countries that will strengthen the economic fabric of our nation’s development. But first of all, I want to draw our government's attention to the disgraceful absolute facts. Almost every day, soda, wheat, and scrap metal are exported from the occupied Crimea. And it's the Turkish ports that are now receiving the ships, and in particular, even today, the arrival of a ship called Jaraj, which carries 6,000 tons of wheat and which will be accepted by the Turkish port of Iskenderun. I want to point out that somehow volunteers at Peacekeeper Center can see that smuggling happens every day and inform. But the active response is to stop and make the toxic atmosphere around the occupied Crimea, and stop smuggling from the occupied Crimea of any material and service such vessels in the ports of Turkey. It's not happening at all. I want to point out that it's unacceptable to close your eyes on such cases. And we must make every effort to restore justice and respect for the sovereignty and territory of Ukraine, even if it is temporarily occupied. Such cases should be fixed, argued. The captains have to be arrested and responsible for carrying out smuggling operations, for shutting down the ship's automated surveillance system and for filling out documents of gross violation of the law of the sea. All these are crimes, they must be investigated. We need to inform our countries with which we have relations. And not to allow any service to such vessels in any of the ports of civilized countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Veselov's giving the floor to Semensi Roman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u77	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! The Turkish Republic today belongs to a list of countries that are the main consumers of Ukrainian exports. This is today in the export structure of the Ukrainian economy, 7 percent is happening and is arriving in the Turkish Republic. Even our closest neighbours in Poland, Belarus, consume less. Thus, it is vital to establish a business relationship. Our trade relationship with Turkey is slow, but it continues to grow. In the first half of last year, Turkey invested about $260 million in the Ukrainian economy, a third of which was directed to industry, about 20 percent of its telecommunications. Various experts estimate that Turkey’s total investment in the Ukrainian economy today amounts to $3 billion. And I am convinced that the ratification of today's agreement will allow for the continued increase of foreign investment from Turkey in the Ukrainian economy. That is why it is important, for the improvement of transport connections, especially for trucking, is foreseen for the free use of motor vehicles on the basis of premium permits. So, colleagues, we support this, it's very important to have real investments in the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u78	Thank you. Oleg Medina, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u79	Please give the floor to Deputy Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important ratification, and I ask everyone to focus and support this vote, because Ukraine and Turkey are in an extremely favourable geographical position with regard to the flow of cargo. In turn, this will enable us to increase the supply lines and enable them to be used more effectively as the potential for transport infrastructures in both countries. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u81	It was strong. Lensky Alexiyyyovich gives the floor to Igor Mosiyczuk. Colleagues, this is a closing statement. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall right now. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u82	Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. We will, of course, support, like all previous ratifications, this ratification, because all the interstate relations that go in favour of Ukraine, in favour of the Ukrainian economy, are supported by our party, our faction, Oleg Láska. At the same time, however, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Ukrainians to two things that relate to transportation. What are we talking about? First of all, it's that our government officials, the Crucifixion Commission, are only doing what they can not do to improve freight traffic, not to increase the fleet of wagons, but to increase freight tariffs. And they don't think that that's what's causing inflation in the country, that the rise in transport tariffs is a prerequisite for increasing prices on shelves in stores. Therefore, interstate transport is good, but shipping tariffs are no less important and extremely important, and this needs to be done. And the second. We've got a lot of roadblocks in the country, and they're going to do this to no one. For example, in the Corsun-Shevchenk district of Cherkas region, the Garbusin PTU is now closing down. This is done by the head of the Welbian district council. That's the Welbian who's behind the criminal investigation for bribes. It's the Welbian who destroys the Radical Party. And we demand that the NAB attract him to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u83	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. So we're done here, and I'm asking you to invite all the national MPs into the hall. Please. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please come in. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on International Combined Transport. Colleagues, let's unite, let's support, please vote. Committee proposal: in general. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:49:04]] For 216 Colleagues, it came out, I see, some misunderstandings, some of them held back and were against, I understand, it was rather random. Is that right? Please invite you to the hall, please prepare for the vote, invite you to the Chamber of Deputies. So, colleagues, I am now putting to the vote the proposal to return to the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on International Combined Transport. A bill that supports all factions, we just need to mobilize to prove it by voting. Please, Mr. Andrew. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law. Every vote matters, and I ask everyone to vote carefully, please vote for the return. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:50:38]] For 221 Let's wait, let's wait. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to the draft Law 0154 of the Ratification Act between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Colleagues, we were short five votes. I ask everyone to come into the hall carefully and take part in the vote. Please vote, please support the return to draft Law 0154, please everyone carefully take part in the vote. Vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:52:05]] For the 220. Let's wait a minute. Please don't come out. We'll wait a minute. Call the deputies, we'll wait another minute, don't leave the hall. So invite me to the hall, I'll show you the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 88, National Front – 56, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 20, Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 18, Parenthood – 10, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 2. It seems to me that there is still potential for us to get a positive vote. And, colleagues, I'm addressing everyone, all factions, over time, it looks like our last ratification today. Let us unite, but in time we may not be able to make it. Hanna, I'm just looking in the hall at what's going on, let's do this. Please come into the hall. And, colleagues, I'm going to ask you once again to come back, and I'm going to ask everyone and vote responsibly, and take part in the vote. So, colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal to return to the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice! Vote, please. We're voting carefully! Please support, we vote. [[11:54:01]] For 226 226 - back. And now. It's just that we're back. I'm asking you very, very carefully. And now I'm putting the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea (0154) on the proposal of a committee as a whole. Please, we vote very carefully for the law as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:54:43]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, we will no longer be able to consider two other ratifications, unfortunately, for a long time went to the assembly of deputies. And so after the break, at 12:30, we're going to go over the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services. And I ask the head of the Committee of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich after 12:30 to proceed to the discussion of the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u84	Colleagues, time taken for recess, are exhausted. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for work. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, colleagues. So, colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (number 4685). This bill has more than 500 rights, a sufficiently large bill, but today we will be able to start its consideration, and if we do not reach the end of the day, we will finish its consideration tomorrow. He doesn't need to vote for a separate procedure. And I invite the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich to report. So the report begins. Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Information and Communications discussed at its meeting on 06.04.2017 the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 4685). The amended draft law takes the utmost account of the observations made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which were made prior to the first reading, as well as the comments made by the legal administration on the second reading. In general, there were 477 rights to the bill. Of these, 187 have been counted as editorially 117, 29 in part, 144 rejected. The bill is as close as possible to European Union legislation in the field of electronic trust services, which is a big step towards integrating our digital economy into the countries of the European Union. Among the novels of the bill is a transparent procedure for obtaining the status of provider of electronic services, electronic trust services, a clear delimitation of powers of the authorities, an independent conformity assessment procedure for the provision of such services, and the possibility of using them in their activities both as national and international standards. In line with the findings of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee, there were no corruption factors in the draft act. The draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The bill provides a transitional period for existing business. The final and transitional provisions of the bill are intended to take effect one year from the date of its publication. In addition, existing accredited key certification centres are automatically placed by the central certifying authority on the trust list, and electronic digital signatures and enhanced public key certificates are used before they expire, but not later than two years from the date of entry into force of this law. On Friday, ministers of the European Union signed agreements in the European Union on the creation of a single digital market by the end of 2018. So Europe is giving us a direction to go. What is the only digital market in Europe that we can join? That's about 60 billion euros of investment in infrastructure, in digital service development. A portion of Ukraine in this investment field is estimated at between $5 billion and $6 billion. The adoption of this Law on Electronic Trust Services is a decisive step towards Ukraine's real entry into this single digital market in Europe. The committee requests support for the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 4685) as a second reading and as a whole as a committee law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, there are many rights. Let's move on to the right-hand side. I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves and to be disciplined in calling their revisions. Over 500, over 500 straight. Let's start the discussion. Head of the committee, right-wing authors, here we go. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u87	Thank you. Consideration of amendments to the bill on electronic trust services Amendment number one. People's MP Musak. Don't insist. He insists. Please, National Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill. In fact, we will be the first country in the Eastern Partnership to be fully integrated at the legislative level into the EU's digital market. That is why it is so important to accept it. And I would like to thank the committee, which has worked extremely effectively and made it a good document that brought the Cabinet of Ministers, a really revolutionary project. And I'd like to support you, urge you to support my amendment. It's like giving this law a more global name, and it's an electronic identification of e-aid, a documentary process, and the provision of trust services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Please vote. And the committee will comment? Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u90	No, we won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:44:52]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 5. National MP Bondar. Don't insist. Next amendment number 6. Chekit's national deputy. Don't insist. Next amendment number 8. People's MP Danchenko. Are you going to insist? No, it's not. Next amendment number 15. People's MP Musak. [[B in m in s a l in]] 11th. Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u92	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, my amendment refers to a clearer definition of the term "web site." And the problem is not just that, but that in different laws, at different stages of the Supreme Council, there are laws that define the web site differently. In particular, the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine contains a different interpretation of the term "web site". So it's very important that we, including this law, create the only unified concept for many terms that relate to the digital economy and the digitalization of the country in general. But the problem, in my view, is much deeper. Because when you analyze the experiences of successful countries, including Poland, you can see that a locomotive in these changes always happens through the creation of a single state central executive body, such as the Ministry of Digitalization, like in Poland. And then this organ is the locomotive of these processes, in particular, which harmonizes these things, well, with regard to the definition of a comprehensible device. So I would like to support a more precise definition of the concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u93	Is the committee going to comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u94	This amendment is taken into account in an editorial way, coming from European experience, from European directives. The word "machine tools" has been removed from the term, leaving only "software" to be properly established for their presence in the possession of a particular subject. So it's edited. And I'd like to support the committee. As for the introduction of a single list of standards and names, here I fully support the initiative of a fellow member of the national parliament, Roman Semenha, to carry out administrative reform in order to be a body that would be fully responsible for the digitization of the country. So please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:47:37]] For-49 The decision is not taken. People's MP Musak. Amendment number 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, in fact, during this bill, I may have mentioned one of the few cases in the work of the Supreme Council that we were taught at the Institute. I studied with KPI, and there we studied encryption systems. And actually, how about the RSA encryption method, which is extremely popular in the world, and not our DSTU 4145? Well, I had to think about math again and really use it there. Please support my work and, in fact, once again, I want to say that this is an extremely revolutionary and good bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Is the committee going to comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u98	The committee rejected this amendment, just considering that in such engineering matters, there should be a clear explanation for innovation. Therefore, the definition of a term should be left to correctly apply the provisions on the verification of a qualified provider of electronic trust services in compliance with the requirements of legislation in the field of electronic services. That's why the committee didn't support this amendment, and we think it's balanced and it doesn't exactly explain it. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:49:19]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 18, National Deputy Vanat. Don't insist. Amendment number 19, National Deputy Musak. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u100	Yeah, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues, in fact, Ukraine is very far from the world in some electronic documentary and electronic services in general. So let's say that the whole world is now working on a mobile phone, and on the phone, you can do an incredibly large number of different things: sign a contract, get help, other things. Ukraine is now, unfortunately, now obliged by the Ukrainians to do everything in paper form, which, first of all, takes up time, secondly, takes away resources. It's this bill and my amendments, which will be a lot more after that, that some of them are out of the question, but they're all accounted for, in principle, in order to bring Ukrainians closer to the digital economy era. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u101	Thank you. And I'm asking the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u102	Thank you, Alexi Muschak, for your comment. But what I'm saying is that in our bill, we were just trying to make it simple, so that there wouldn't be any different interpretations in the innovation sphere of electronic communications, no crossovers, no double services, because electronic trust services are very simple services that should be understood by every citizen, every user. So we rejected this amendment, based on the fact that this term was ruled out by another amendment. So I'm asking you not to support Alexi Musak's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u103	Thank you. And please vote. [[12:51:24]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 21. National MP Musak, are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u104	Dear Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u105	23rd. 23rd Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u106	Yes, you can, half. 30 seconds. Yeah. Look, honourable colleagues, how would it be right to report this and say, today we have Wednesday, tomorrow we have Thursday, we have to do today, and tomorrow, in fact, we have to consider this bill in order to get to a successful vote tomorrow, I think. This time. And secondly, how do we have to walk through all the lines so that we don't have any chance of missing something important? This amendment under number 23, it just speaks of an important thing and sounds as follows, and it also serves as evidence that the document was issued by the subject of farming. It's about electronic sealing for those who don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, committee, if you'll comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u108	The Committee considers that the definition proposed in the draft fully corresponds to the definition given in Article 3, paragraph 25, of Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Union. I would like to remind you that one of the tasks of this bill is to integrate Ukrainian trust services into Europe's trust services market, so we should take the EU directives into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u109	Thank you and vote, please. [[12:53:26]] For-57 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 24. People's MP Musak. 25th. People's MP Musak. Please, 25 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the electronic documents that we will be able to sign after this bill is passed, they will include several data, including an electronic time stamp. These are electronic data that link other electronic data to a specific moment of time to testify to the availability of this electronic data at the moment. My job was to add an electronic document to a document that contained information in the form of electronic data, including mandatory requests for documents. So my edit expanded some of these definitions. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u111	Please vote. Please, the committee will comment. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u112	The Committee finds that the relationship between electronic document processing and the use of electronic documents is under the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Documents. These documents clearly describe how time synchronization is also happening, that is, this time tag, it's clearly defined. The committee finds such an amendment inappropriate. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:54:58]] For-41 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 26. Please, National Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the revisions, but I would like to point out that I and the team have submitted more than 100 rights to this bill, most of which have been adopted. So it's not as if the position that we're discussing with the head of the committee is really the majority of the important rights that have been adopted. But if we add a few more of my rights, including number 26, this document is going to be much better. Edit number 26, it says about checking the integrity of related electronic data. So please take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u115	Thank you. Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u116	Again, I point out that our task is to accelerate the cross-border link between Ukraine and the European Union. Therefore, the proposed definition is fully in line with the definition set out in Article 3, paragraph 25 of Regulation No 910 of 2014 of the European Union. So please leave the committee alone and do not support the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u117	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:56:28]] For-50 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 27. Don't insist. Next 28. People's MP Musak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, this was linked to allowing the National Bank of Ukraine, or more specifically its structural unit, to become a Center for Guidance. It sounds like this, the Testimony Centre, the structural unit, the National Bank of Ukraine, which registers qualified providers of electronic services, trust services in the area of remittance of funds and in the banking system of Ukraine. And I'd also like to say that the National Bank of Ukraine is essentially during the last cyber attacks we've had the Ministry of Finance, and we've had websites and databases of other information, including treasury. Because they worked on old standards called DSTU4145. And the National Bank worked flawlessly because it uses security standards and encryption standards, including international ones. And the purpose of this law is to bring us closer to international standards and allow them to be used in Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u120	By fully supporting the need to protect information and protect against cyber threats, including the use of international standards, one of the novels of this bill is that we are developing technological neutrality, technological neutrality that allows and uses Ukrainian standards, and international standards. That is, we cannot discriminate, for example, by adopting only European standards. Because we have Ukrainian institutions that work, so they have to compete on an equal footing with European or other standards. Therefore, I ask not to support this because the bill to determine the status of the rights and obligations of each of the legal subjects in the field of electronic trust services provides for separate articles, where all the questions raised by the national deputy, Alexei Musak, are taken into account, but in other articles. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u121	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:59:02]] For-51 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 29, please National Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! This edit applies to an electronic signature or sealing tool. I'd like to explain what the situation is right now. In principle, a few years ago, we had all the communication between the state and the citizens only in writing, which is a serious problem. But a few years ago, there, for example, tax began to issue electronic keys, and they're only on a flash drive right now. This, on the one hand, is progress, but on the other hand, if you want to work again like the whole world on a mobile phone, you're going to have to pay an enormous amount of money to integrate your electronic signature here, because it's not going to fit into the standard Android packet, iOS, Microsoft Office and other things. And that's why this law is designed to make it easier because of the maximum number of deviants to communicate between society and the state. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u124	The scope of electronic communications in general and the scope of electronic trust services in specific cases, it should not be chaos, it should be regulated issues with clear standards, because it is very important. You're right, the honourable national MP, you're saying that it's communication with citizens, and there shouldn't be any, even potential fraud. Therefore, we believe that our proposed definition is in line with paragraphs 22 and 31 of Article 3 of Regulation No. 910 of 2014 of the European Union. According to which the electronic signature tool is configured, software or hardware that is used to create an electronic signature. The electronic sealing tool is a configured software or hardware that is used to create electronic seals. I mean, it's not about what you're saying, it's just a flash drive. And that's what we're doing, on the one hand, we're expanding possibilities, and on the other hand, we're not creating chaos. Please don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:01:44]] For-48 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 31. Don't you insist? People's MP Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u126	What is not to be insisted upon if we can bring about the pre-progressive and revolutionary nature of this law? Dear colleagues, yesterday we had a vote in favour of judicial reform, or some of my colleagues called the so-called judicial reform, there's kind of a dispute, there's some good moments, but there's something about an electronic court. Now communication between, again, the court and the citizens -- the defendant or the defendant -- is only taking place in writing, paper form. In principle, it's planned that there'll be an electronic court where you can communicate in. over. Well, electronic means of communication, and this bill is getting us close. My edit applied to what is a "qualified electronic signature tool." In my understanding, it's a device or software or a software complex that's used to create and verify electronic signatures or seals and meet the standards of this law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u127	Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u128	Well, really, electronic digital signatures and trust services are a very widely used practice in the European Union, but speaking of yesterday's reform, it would be better to use these services to reverse the electronic distribution in the courts that have been removed, unfortunately. That's why we're here on assignment, right? That's why we can discuss it here. As for the specific issue of this amendment, it is firstly in line with paragraphs 22, 23, 31, 32 of Rule 3 of Regulation 910, which means to create an electronic signature – a software or hardware that is used to create an electronic signature. A tool to create a qualified electronic signature is a tool to create an electronic signature that meets the requirements set out in Appendix 2 and an electronic printing tool is a software or hardware that is used to create electronic seals; an electronic sealing tool is an electronic sealing tool that meets the requirements set out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:04:24]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 32. Please, National Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, let's explain in principle what the situation is now. At present, only budget structures, such as Minsk, are the providers of electronic keys, in principle. And on the one hand, they're free. But it's only conditional free, because the government budget is going to fund it, and in fact taxpayers are paying for this free electronic key in some way. The same law proposes to create a competitive field and, in fact, to expand the possibility of giving electronic keys to companies that will be subject to the requirements of law, there will be certification that will allow, in fact, there to seriously create a separate body or a separate body. More specifically, a single market that generates new costs, new taxes and new jobs. Please support both this law and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u132	Well, once again, what I want to say is that this is a very important cross-border cooperation to provide electronic trust services between Ukraine and the European Union. And as the previous example of Nazbank of Ukraine has already been cited, this is very important for the banking system – cross-border cooperation. That is why we believe that we must meet fully the requirements of European legislation and not bring chaos into these relations. So the committee is proposing not to support this amendment in order not to balance the bill, which is very nice and important, we will be working on it a lot. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:06:33]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 36. No, it doesn't. Next amendment number 48. People's deputy to Semimenach. Don't insist. Next amendment number 54. Don't insist. Next amendment number 74. Don't insist. Next amendment number 76. Don't insist. Next amendment number 87. Don't insist. Next amendment number 88. Don't insist. Next amendment number 89. Don't insist. Next amendment number 91. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in article 3 of the legislation on electronic trust services adopted in the first reading of this bill, there were four sub-items. When the committee was working on the second reading in the bill, unfortunately, three sub-items, in my opinion, were slightly lost. There is still 1 that the relationship between the provision of electronic trust services is regulated by Ukraine’s legislation. My right is that in the event of a dispute about the right to apply to legal relations in the field of electronic trust services, the right of the State to provide electronic trust services is subject to application. The explanatory note to this bill from the Cabinet of Ministers states: "The objective of Ukraine's integration into the world's electronic information space." What integration, if we're a little bit bit that way, we're still ignoring European law? So I'm going to leave that first-reading text behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. People's MP, for your comment, but I want to say that really, between the first and second readings, the committee has redesigned the very structure that, in our view, was not quite good enough for this bill. And we've changed the structure that's become more correct from the point of view of Chief Legal. But your comments were taken into account by another amendment, or your comments taken into account by another amendment. So a change in a little bit of structure, it is. Your amendment is accounted for, so please reject now, because there's going to be a double amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, vote. [[13:09:22]] For-54 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 92. Don't insist. Next, 93. Don't insist. 95. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u138	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this bill will enable such important tasks to be accomplished. First. Creating the right conditions for the cross-border use of electronic digital signatures for Ukrainian citizens, businesses and their European partners. The ability to use BankID, Mobile ID and receive public services in electronic form not only in Ukraine but throughout the European Union. But my readjustment in terms of cooperation with European partners is making the process better. The amendment clarifies article 3, paragraph 4, of the bill, stating that in the event of a dispute involving the protection of personal data of subjects in the field of electronic trust services, the State of the place where the users of such services are located is subject to the application of the dispute. It's still an important moment. If the level of this protection is no less than that provided by the legislation of the Member States of the European Union. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u139	Please comment on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u140	First of all, I want to thank the distinguished National MP for the professional work you've been doing on the committee, and indeed, they've made this bill beautiful and completely pro-European. I want to say that the committee rejected this amendment. Because, as in the previous case, when we made this bill more correctly between the first and the second readings, this part of the fourth was excluded by another amendment. Therefore, the committee has not supported and we ask not to support this amendment in order not to change the structure of the bill. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u141	Thank you. I'll bet you 95. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:11:33]] For-46 The decision is not taken. I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, I've got it, And then I'll give you my word. 100th. Flies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, what does this bill say? Now that you have either a tablet or a mobile phone, you can sign contracts with foreign companies. Provided that if the Ukrainian company wants to participate in the French tender, what does it need to do now? So, collect papers, make signatures. Take all the documents, it's time, it's money, it's other options. This law allows us, on the condition that Ukrainian companies or foreign companies participate, including in state tenders, because they will sign all their applications by electronic digital signatures, which will be accepted by a foreign counterparty. And accordingly, we are seriously reducing the barriers both to foreign companies that want to participate in Ukrainian tenders and to Ukrainian companies that want to participate in foreign tenders. And there's no paper, just electronic communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u143	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u144	Thank you, Alexei Muschak. I would like to point out once again that this bill is aimed at this cross-border cooperation in trust services. And this bill is what makes it possible, that is, it will open up this digital era when European companies can participate without paper in various projects and tenders in Ukraine, and Ukrainians will actually go to the market for electronic digital services in Europe. And this is our integration. But the relationship between electronic document processing and the use of electronic documents is regulated by the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Documents. In addition, the proposed position is already included in the articles “Electronic trust services use” and “Electronic trust services designed, tested and validated by qualified electronic signatures or seals”. Also in connection with the reform of legislation in the field of electronic digital signature by introducing the sphere of electronic trust services, the very term "electronic digital signature" will not apply, it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u145	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 100. The committee turned her down. Please don't support the committee. Please vote. [[13:14:29]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Next up, 131st. But Ivan Miroshnichenko raised his hand. Miroshenko? There isn't, yeah, I guess. So 131st. Don't insist. 138th. Don't insist. 147th. Don't insist. 170th, Muschak. Don't insist. 171, Semenha. Please. 171.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u146	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the bill refers to someone who sets requirements for qualified electronic signatures or seals that are set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the beginning, when I was speaking first, I was pointing out that, unfortunately, when we put certain or other demands on the Cabinet of Ministers as a collegiate body, it's actually collective, as often as it is, irresponsibility. And it's very important for the Ukrainian government to listen, look at better European practices, and yet go to the creation of a single central executive body, such as the Ministry of Digitalization, which will also implement different standards for the construction of today's digital Ukraine and therefore those services that have a direct bearing on it. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u147	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u148	Well, I'd like to remind National Deputy Roman Semensi that we've had a very professional discussion with you on this issue, and we've found compromise with all of your wishes, and there's been a compromising editorial agreement with the author of the amendment, and we've accepted it. It's about responsibility. I fully agree with you here, because unfortunately, by adopting laws in the field of electronic communication, digitization, there, even 4G, we have a strange situation where no one in the Cabinet is responsible for this sector. And that's the problem. Now we see an example of the introduction of 4G, the full balance of different departments in the Cabinet of Ministers. So I support your appeal and the branch that is second in growing in Ukraine should have its own representative in the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u149	I'll bet you 171 votes. The committee turned her down. I'd like you to identify yourself in this room. [[13:17:17]] For-30 The decision is not made. 176th. Don't insist. 184th. Don't insist. 189th. Don't insist. 190th. Don't insist. 204th. Don't insist. 204th. Musak insists. Please, 204th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, this is essentially about 189 revisions. It was, of course, small, but it's actually like after the word "obligatory" you have to complement with the word "technical" to do the detail. 189 revisions. And on the 190th I'm also going to insist, it's longer. So first, 189, please support, then 190. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u151	Will you comment or put to the vote? Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u152	Check it out. 189 requisitions. The defined legislation will provide not only for technical but also for organizational and technological requirements. That's why we already have it written down, once again, I want to pay attention, not only to technical but also to organizational and technological requirements. So our version is more extensive and includes organizational issues. Because issues such as cybersecurity are primarily related to organizational protection, organization, and organizational structure. So please don't support this amendment, the committee has rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u153	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 189, the committee turned it down, please. [[13:19:16]] For-30 The decision is not taken. And 190, I understand, insists Musak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! We've certainly debated this bill for quite some time, and there may be a lot of specific technical terms, but be sure that all of these debates are motivated by good intentions and are called upon to vote on this bill, and to support it by more than 226 people's deputies. 190 revisions, it's actually about who and how it should validate the validity of the certification certificate, self-identification from the website. It's written in its existing standard that it should be the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to add to what this should be, including, according to European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u155	Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u156	What I'm saying is, it's very important in these innovative bills that are opening up a truly digital market and digitizing Ukraine so that there's no double interpretation, no misunderstandings, so the committee has been discussing this right. But we would like to draw your attention to the fact that these positions are already set out in article 23 of the "Qualified Certificates of Public Keys". And in this article all the things that you, Alexei Muschak, suggest are taken into account. So the committee didn't accept this amendment to avoid overloading the bill, so we tried to make it more accessible and simpler. Thank you. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u157	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 190, and the committee didn't support it, and it's asking for no support. Please vote. [[13:21:32]] For-32 The decision is not made. 204th. Don't insist. He insists. Please, Mushak 204.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, it's just a little confusing. It was 191, it was very detailed there, and it was as if there were ten points of what should be a website for auto-fixing. And it is 204 that the mandatory requirements for qualified public key certificates are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is this amendment that states that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and to supplement that point with the requirements of European standards. What does that say? Look, there are European standards, there are American standards, there are Russian standards, there are Russian standards, but we are closest to European standards, because we want to integrate ourselves into the European digital market, as Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman said first, and in his letter to the Ukrainian Parliament, President of Ukraine Peter Alexiyovich Porosenko. So this amendment goes on to confirm that the legislative body confirms their position and sees its own, and shows its own vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u159	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u160	I am, indeed, like the head of the committee and the person who advocates the digital economy, very pleased that both the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine are calling for digitalization. And that's very true. Because digital economy is the future of our nation. But. And I fully agree that there are risks to the Cabinet here, Mr. Alexi Musak, setting up or not setting up. This issue needs to be addressed by administrative reform of the Cabinet of Ministers, focusing on all issues of digitisation in one body. Then there will be no such questions, there will be a balanced professional lobbyist in the Cabinet of Ministers. We're the only country in the world that doesn't have a ministry or someone responsible. This issue was settled in another article, part two of article 6 of the bill. I mean, once again, this question is settled in the second article. Part two of article 6 of the bill. So please don't support this exercise, it's like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Listen, Mr. Muschak, your mess is coming. Please identify yourself. So, colleagues, the committee has turned down, we define. [[13:24:18]] For-38 The editing didn't work. Chaos overcame. 205th, insists Mr. Musak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, if Mr. Chairman of the Committee started a discussion about chaos, I would like to say that there is a notion of creative chaos from which everything is taken. And we're actually, as a legislative body, legislative, legislative, creative. It's not a cure, it's a creation. And every national MP, when he writes some sort of correction or whatever, in English inspiration, and in English he finds inspiration. That's why I think it's being used. So, I guess using words like that can be bad for chaos, no. Moreover, Ukraine is the only state in the world where anarchy has made its state, it's a play field, actually. So I would, in fact, have great respect for the desire of the Ukrainians, including having some kind of anarchy, as they say, mother order, and chaos is really the highest measure of order, if you don't know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u163	Thank you. I think the committee head realized his mistake. Thank you for explaining. I'm voting on Amendment 205, Musak's amendment. Colleagues, please support. The committee turned her down. I support Musak's amendment. Please. [[13:25:55]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 206th. Don't insist. 211th Semenha. Don't insist. 214th. Don't insist. 214th, please, Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, there was, let's go back, really, to the point. It was said that when a report was made about the adoption by a qualified provider of electronic trust services about the cessation of activities in the provision of electronic trust services. Indeed, this is elsewhere prescribed, so my position was that this article was part four. Article 20, paragraph 4, is deleted. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Comment, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u166	This is a very important question. Since the functioning of public key infrastructure, which is the basis for the existence of electronic trust services, cannot be done without the creation of an authorized public key certificate. This, I ask you to say, is such a technologically important thing that it needs to work exactly that way and no other way, because. I don't know what word to replace that word I said, but people get confused and don't get, really, trust services that are faithful. Who is faithful. That's why you can't accept it. In the event of a decision to terminate the provision of qualified electronic trust services, the service provider is obliged to inform the subject that he has obtained a qualified certificate of the public key. So I'm very much asking you not to support this exercise. We've been discussing it for a long time, but it's technically correct. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u167	Thank you. I'm putting the vote to 214 people's deputies, Musak. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:05]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 215th. Don't insist. 216th. Don't insist. 220th. Don't insist. 222th. Don't insist. 223th. Don't insist. 238. Don't insist. 230th. Don't insist. 231st. Don't insist. 234th. Don't insist. 235. The author does not insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] He insists, I'm sorry. 235th, Muschak. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u168	Look, we could, of course, go back to the debate about the "determined chaos" that actually began its life in the 1960s, when there was a cloud, for example, or forecasting just in the theory of "determined chaos," there were so-called "attractors" and other things, "fractuals," it was, including, the same chaos. But this isn't about math or abstract algebra, if I'm not mistaken, the third course when I was in KPI. Now, actually, about more global things is the relationship between date and time and electronic data in a way that excludes the possibility of undetectable change in electronic data. So that was, at my suggestion, taken into account in the other part, in the other direction. So I'd like to support this and then support another revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u169	Thank you. Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u170	Thank you. I would like to point out that the credibility of the trust service is impeccable. She did. be authentic and reliable. The proposed provisions correspond to article 42, paragraph 1, of Regulation No 910/2014, of the European Directive, according to which a qualified time mark should meet such requirements, namely: linking the date and time with the data in such a way that it excludes the possibility of undetectable data change; based on an accurate source of time associated with universal time coordination. So I ask you not to support this amendment, which is actually regulated elsewhere in this bill. It's clearly set out here. I ask you not to support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u171	Thank you. I'm betting on the 235th vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:30:40]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 240th. The author does not insist. 241. The author does not insist. 245th. Don't insist. 250. [[B in m in s a l in]] 252. Don't insist. 253. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? 253. Please, Mr. Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, under this bill, in fact, if I'm not mistaken, we've probably had about eight work meetings, and there's been a lot of discussion about some kind of paper and some detail, because. Well, it was, of course, a conversation of technicians, not of law makers, but there was still creative chaos there. I suggest in this direction that you put the title of article 24 in this form: "The specificity of the use of qualified electronic trust services by the central certifying authority."and then after everything happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u173	Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u174	We've really brought up a lot of professional discussions, and we've engaged, I want to remind you, in these discussions, experts from the European Union of the European Union of the European Union in order to make the most of a bill that will be comfortable and right for the cooperation of Ukrainian trust services with European trust services. So the functioning of a permanent hierarchical public key infrastructure is the basis for the secure and reliable provision of electronic trust services, the use of hierarchical infrastructure from. or certificates related to these services. I mean, I'm asking you not to support this because we think that this hierarchical structure is as protective against counterfeiting as possible, from external interference with such systems. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u175	Thank you. I'm putting 253 people's deputies to the vote. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind, please vote. [[13:33:02]] For-47 The decision is not taken, but the number of supporters of Musak’s controlled chaos is growing gradually and steadily in the hall. 254th. Don't insist. 257th. Don't insist. He insists. 257, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman Andri Volodymyrovich, if we're so clear, open and mathematically accurate, the number of supporters of Musak's theory of creative chaos is actually dominant in this room, if we look at it this way. The other question is that not all of them are willing to vote in one way or another for different reasons, we will not say which. But they have the right to do so, because according to the Constitution, each of them has a personal vote. I'd like to say about 257 articles, where I'm pretty much detailing the following things. The organisational, methodological, technical and technological conditions of the central certifying authority when it provides a machine-readable register of suppliers shall be established by the rules of operation of the central certifying authority. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u177	Thank you. Will you comment, Alexander Ivanovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u178	The committee insists, however, that the hierarchical infrastructure laid down in the European Union directives has become a guarantee of the reliability and security of such a system. Because it's very important why these services are called trustees. Because a citizen of every state is calm because of these services he trusts the state, the state trusts the citizen. And yet, electronic services are being used. And it is very important to ensure the safety of such matters. So the committee comes from the point of view that the hierarchical public key infrastructure is the basis for the secure and reliable provision of electronic trust services. Reliability, security, authenticity are the main "whales" of electronic trust services. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u179	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 257. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:35:33]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 268th. The author does not insist. 272nd. The author does not insist. 279th. Don't insist. 281. Don't insist. 283rd. Lechenko doesn't insist. 271. Please, Mr. Musak. 281.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u180	Yeah. Dear colleagues, we are certainly all working hard to ensure that this law is still accepted and important remedies have also been announced as a minimum, if not supported by the hall. 281 article, 281 amendment, refers to article 25. Where the subject of electronic trust services is dealt with as follows. I would like to present this article in the following article: "Article 25. Users of electronic trust services. The user of electronic trust services can be any person, taking into account the limitations set by this article. Electronic trust services are not provided to individuals who are found to be ineffective in court. Natural persons who have not reached adulthood have the right to receive electronic trust services according to the extent of their legal capacity." And the committee colleagues just decided to rule it out. So please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u181	Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have discussed this amendment with you and the positions you have proposed are already regulated in other articles, namely: "Definition of terms" and "Identification of a person during the formation and issuance of a qualified certificate of the open key." So we totally supported your amendment, but we put it in other articles to make it look like a whole document. Therefore, this amendment is included in other articles, and so it is. And I'm asking you to reject this because it's included in other articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u183	Mr. Alexi, do you insist on voting? All right, let's vote. I'm betting on a vote of 281 people's deputies, Musak. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:38:07]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 298. The author does not insist. 299th. Don't insist. 300th. Don't insist. 303rd. Don't insist. 304th. Don't insist. 305th. Don't insist. 310. Don't insist. 312. Don't insist. 313. Don't insist. 314. Don't insist. 328th. Don't insist. 334. Don't insist. 335. Don't insist. 342. Don't insist. 343rd. Don't insist. We're going so fast to the finish line. 350. Don't insist. 351st. Don't insist. 355th. Don't insist. 357th. Don't insist. 359th. Don't insist. Please, 357th. Please, Danchenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u184	This is my turn, and I would still like to put to the vote that part two of article 32, paragraph 7, should be interpreted as a test or an audit request for an electronic trustee. This is a very important quality standard. So I would like to set up this amendment, despite the committee's decision, it's my personal right to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u185	Now comment as head of the committee. I'm sorry. I'm voting 357 Danchenka, and the committee rejected her. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:40:16]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 361. Don't insist. 364. Don't insist. 365th. Don't insist. 367th. 367th. Mushka, please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, before this bill was submitted about 470 rights, and certainly we all have to, well, practically all of them, I think, consider. We've just stopped for a hundred revisions to the end. And I would like to comment now and ask for your support in voting for this amendment. It's actually in something that's, well, creative, yeah, because we're rephrasing and translating the title of article 34 of "State oversight, monitoring compliance with the requirements of electronic services legislation." I suggest that you and your colleagues form a name as follows: Article 34, "State oversight (control) to comply with the requirements of legislation in the field of electronic identification, electronic documentation and the provision of electronic trust services." This, I think, is a broader explanation of the purpose and purpose of this article. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u188	This is a very important question. And strategically, I support Alexi Musak's initiative. But I want to remind you that this bill applies to electronic trust services. And in the bill on electronic trust services, we think we need to regulate electronic trust services. This is again in line with the requirements of Regulation No 910 of the European Union since 2014. And the issue of electronic identification and electronic documentation is the issue of another bill on electronic communications. So even in international terms, electronic documents and electronic identification refer to electronic services rather than electronic trust services. That's why it's more correct and accurate. And I very much hope that Alexi Musak and I will work on these issues in the Law on Electronic Communications. So please leave the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u189	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 367 people's deputies Musak. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:43:03]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Are we going to get wet? There's no potential, yeah. 368. Don't insist. He insists. Please, Mushak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u190	See, fellow believers, what is the purpose and purpose of this law. Indeed, to make communication or communication as accessible as possible between the state and the citizen, between the different citizens, of course, to sign a contract for the sale of apartments or something else through electronic means of payment, not to come and write it personally with a pen, between people and business, and business and business. Right now, in fact, Ukrainian business is willing to move on to European standards or to world standards of communication, that's not a problem. I want to remind you of the Swedish experience, where there's Mobile ID, BankID and where they're at the maximum of communication, really, and they're doing through advanced means of communication rather than going into paper, what's infecting us. So my amendment, it actually applied to the following words. In the area of electronic trust services, replace the words "in the field of electronic identification, electronic documentation and electronic trust services." It's a broader and more imaginative concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u192	This is the same position as the last one. I fully support both Mobile ID and BankID. That takes first 4G development, because that's another philosophy. But the issue of electronic identification and electronic documentation is still referred to by the international classification of terminology for purely electronic communications. And I'd like to call on Alexia Musak as well as the entire room to vote on one of the three electronic communications laws in the near future. Because these two laws together are going to be the engine of the digital economy. Then it's true that we still have to add a new Radio Frequency Act so that we don't have 4G tenders problems. This bill, therefore, regulates the scope of electronic trust services in accordance with European Union regulation 910 of 2014. All other services should be governed by the Law on Electronic Communications, as is the case in Europe and around the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u193	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 368, the committee rejected it, please be determined. [[13:45:56]] For-40 The decision is not made. 379th. Don't insist. He insists. 379th, please, Mushak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, the total here is 477 rights, we're now at 379, this is 98 left over, most of which are counted. So in fact, we all have a chance to go through this bill before the last amendment to today's session, maybe there'll be two, three for tomorrow, that's how we're going to move. Once again, I ask for the fifth part of article 34 to be presented in such an editorial. "Takes a decision to change the status of the trust service to the issuer to the exclusion or status of the issuer to the renunciation registered in the public service registry, as well as to block the qualified electronic sealing certificate of the certification centre, the self-signed electronic sealing certificate of the central certifying authority when the facts of the personal key have been detected during the verification." Conditionally, when a testimonial is improperly performed by an operation, it is regulated. What's going on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u195	Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u196	The position of our committee is that since the decision to exclude a qualified provider of electronic trust services is taken by the central certifying authority of the supervisory authority, we consider such a procedure to be more effective, clearer and simpler. So it's very important that the qualification of such an electronic trust service provider by changing or not being qualified is very good and protected. That's why we insist on our editors, thinking it's clearer, simpler and more secure for a potential user. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u197	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 379, the committee rejected it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:48:18]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 380. He insists. Please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, of course, you may not support any kind of amendment, but it is important to support the very philosophy of the law, which is actually meant to make Ukraine an advanced, innovative, digital country with a large digital market, with a large economy. And what I'd like to say is that, for example, Kievstar mobile operators, MTS, Lifesel and others, they're already ready to implement all of these novels that are written in this law, and they're actually missing the legislative basis. The same goes for BankID, the state banks "Savedbink", "Ukreximbank", now the "Private Bank", which is also state-owned, also ready to implement an active BankID, and accordingly they also need this bill to work in the legal field. My amendment number 380, it says exactly what's going on and what's the basis for excluding or withdrawing the status of an electronic digital signature provider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u199	Thank you. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u200	In fact, I want to ask all the MPs that this bill is very important to support and vote. And the discussion that goes on between the committee and such an activist of the digital signature in Ukraine, Alexia Musak, is going to make this bill as good as possible and as much as possible. And this bill is going to open up a market for mobile financial services, and the operators are really looking forward to it. So this is one of the elements of growth and market and income and, in general, the entire digital economy. The banks are ready, the mobile operators are ready, the other operators are ready. I mean, by voting on this bill, I really hope that everyone will listen to the people's deputies, to the committee, to the President, to the Prime Minister, and we will vote on this bill, and we will open up a digital service market. But we believe that the decision to exclude a qualified provider of electronic trust services is taken by the central certifying authority for the submission of the controlling authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u201	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 380 people's deputies Musak. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:50:59]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 381. He insists. Please, Alexei Muschak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, once again, it is said here that when we talk about the provision of qualified electronic trust services, it is important for me to say "or security requirements based on European standards." So that we can be the target of the country's president, Peter Alexiyyovich Prashenko and Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, of course this is also supported by Andry Volodymyrovich Parubaj, to lead us to the only digital market with the European Union to achieve it. This time. And second of all, I'm not going to insist on my rights, my rights to 447 amendments. I'm not going to insist, I think that, in general, there were most of the lines that I was giving, they were accounted for, and there were more than a hundred rights. I won't insist until 447. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u203	Thank you. Thank you for understanding the situation and for your appreciation for the leadership of the State. And please comment, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u204	I want to thank Alexia Musaka for really understanding the situation so that I don't waste time and tomorrow I can vote on this bill. As for this amendment, in our discussions. At our committee discussions, I want to remind you that everyone has come to the conclusion that there should be technological neutrality, that Ukrainian standards should be able to work, because I support a faction that speaks Ukrainian because our institutions need to be supported. But they should be able to compete equally with Europeans. Because if we are only Europeans, what should we do with our Ukrainian scientists? So our committee comes from the interests of the country, the protection of Ukrainian developers. So we think there should be neutrality and our Ukrainian developers should have the same if not greater powers than Europeans. Therefore, the committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u205	Thank you. And this time the committee was more convincing, I'll tell you. And that's why I'm voting 381. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:53:41]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 383. The author does not insist. 388. Don't insist. 390. Don't insist. 391. Don't insist. 392. Don't insist. 393. Don't insist. 396. Don't insist. 397. Don't insist. 398. Don't insist. 400. The author does not insist. 401. The author does not insist. We're moving intensely. 409th. Don't insist. 411. insists the author. Please, Roman Semenha. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u206	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, in preparing for the Committee’s second reading, take into account all the comments made during previous discussions. First. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers has been adjusted. More clearly, Nazbank's mandate has been given. This bill is in line with the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. I address the Head of the Supreme Council, the faction leaders tomorrow to be all in the morning and to vote, without exaggeration, this "revolution" law. Because it is this law that is actually continuing to implement Ukraine's visa-free regime with the European Union. This is, without exaggeration, Ukraine's electronic failure with the European Union, because it will allow Ukrainian citizens to use electronic digital signature services, to apply technologies such as Wankid, Mobile Id, which have long been used in. in the European Union and in another civilized world. So, colleagues, tomorrow we all have to be and vote for this, without exaggeration, important "revolution" law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u207	Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u208	Well, there's nothing to comment on. I am grateful for the support of the People's Deputy, and I want to confirm that there have been a lot of people working on this bill, experts. We settled all the questions of Nazbank, the State Sector, the private sector. And on my part, I would also like to call for this bill to be voted on, which will simply open up a new digital era in Ukraine's new digital economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u209	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Roman? 411. All right, I'll vote 411. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:32]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Yeah, 412th. The author does not insist. 413. Don't insist. 414. Don't insist. 415th. Don't insist. Yes, I'm sorry. 419. Don't insist. 433rd. Don't insist. 434th. The author does not insist. 445th. The author does not insist. 446th. Don't insist. And you said, 447th, Mushak. That's obviously the last correction we're going to be able to consider today. And we'll know which direction we're on tomorrow. And 447 revisions, this is the last one for today. I give the floor to Alexia Musak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, thank you for being able to discuss and discuss this really important bill in a fruitful way. It seems to me that we, as the sole legislative body of Ukraine, should not stop at this, but continue to go to the digital economy, where we are the leaders. And I also propose, in fact, to take seriously the issues of blockage, cryptocurrency, smart contracts, so-called Smart Contracts, ICU and other things that are now possible thanks to the cryptocurrencies that are actively developing in Ukraine. And now Ukraine is still in the lead. And our task is to keep these positions and create a legislative field so that Ukrainian companies, Ukrainian innovations, can spread around the world. 447 revisions, it says that paragraph 8 of paragraph 3 of section "End and transitional positions" should be deleted. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u211	Thank you. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u212	In support of the full position of the People's Deputy on the need for digital technology, I also urge the People's Deputies to vote on this revolutionary bill tomorrow, opening a digital era in the Ukrainian economy. With regard to this amendment, the proposal is not taken into account. Same exact technical, engineering, let's say, engineering term. To form a time marker as a result of providing qualified electronic trust service providers will receive exact time signals synchronized with the world-wide coordinated UTC time. Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u213	Thank you. So 447 of Mushak's people's deputies. The committee turned her down. And I'm betting on a vote of 447. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:59:48]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, 2:00 in the hall. We can't look at the papers anymore. And let's make a point: we're 447 on the right. And tomorrow after the People's Deputies speak, we'll continue our consideration of the bill at 10:30. So I ask the right-wing authors to be in the hall tomorrow. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-04-m0.u214	Oh, yeah, no performances. Yes, colleagues, sorry, yes. So we're actually starting at 10:00 in the morning. And so I'm asking the right-wing authors to come to the conference room at ten o'clock to continue working on this bill. And tomorrow we'll also have the cybersecurity information block, as we agreed. And two less extensive laws. Cybersecurity is also a few hundred rights. But the other two laws are not so extensive. And that's why I'm asking everyone to be disciplined tomorrow at 10:00. And I want to wish everyone fruitful work today on the committees. We've confirmed the order of the day session. So the committees have the opportunity to look at the bills they had on the agenda. I wish you a fruitful committee job today. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you.
