ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the registration room at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please. Are you guys ready to register? Please come into the hall, take your jobs. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration, please enter the hall. I'd like you to sign up, please. [[16:06:44]] 356 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that at our morning meeting, we decided to invite you to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to listen to the heads of law enforcement. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was visited by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yury Vitaliyovich. I'm here. Deputy Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office Krivenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Head of the Ukrainian Security Service Directorate in Kiev and Kyiv district Semochko Sergey Alexiyovich. My colleagues, I want to remind you of the rules of procedure. The Attorney General asked for a report within 30 minutes. Then questions from all factions and groups. Six factions and two groups, this is going to be essentially 25 minutes. Let me remind you, the system is the same as it is for the MPs in 20 minutes. So they will be able to ask questions from all the factions and also from the national deputies of the record. The system will be the same as in the "hour of questions to the government," which is a minute -- question, two minutes -- answer. And I ask everyone during the recording, who wants to participate in the discussion, to record. From factions, it is clear that each faction will have a guaranteed question and a portion among deputies depending on how the record will be recorded through the system of registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Questions. My colleagues, I would also like to inform you that we are obviously not going to be able to listen to all the leaders today, and that is why those leaders that we will not be able to listen to today will be able to speak, and we will listen to them tomorrow, as we continue our meeting during the Wednesday plenary session. And, dear colleagues, the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. We agreed that the Henprosecutor's speech would be the first performance from the rostrum. Please, Yuri Vasilovich. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I would like to stress that our morning session was talking about a question that was raised today about the detention of certain persons in Kiev. Yuri Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! The question from which I was invited to the Supreme Council is the integrity and legality of the Ukrainian law enforcement system. It seems to me that it should be discussed with all the first persons representing the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. With all due respect to the deputies or to the responsibilities of the heads of this department, I believe that the further continuation of the NABA practice should be the first to open the fire of discrediting anyone who dares to question the legality of this structure should be stopped. The only thing I'd like to do before you decide whether I should continue this topic now, or wait for the leaders, is to say that it's to correct the nabu news service myth of the war between the GPU and the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. I'm with numbers on my hands, and I want to make a strong statement: I, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, as one of the co-authors of the NABU Law and other anti-corruption laws in my office, do and do everything I can to ensure that all law enforcement agencies work effectively against corruption and crime. Of the 50 cases that the U.S.A. has been able to bring to trial this year, 20 are based on G.S. and B.S.A. Only this shows that we work together where the law allows us to go forward together. The latest resonating events, when it was the GPU that detained the person who tried to bribe the SAP manager, that's what we arrested him for. Or another resonant event, when Alperin's "king of smugglers" who's been robbing the state budget for decades without penalty, in the NAB cuffs that he applied to the U.S.U., came out of the Cave Court, means that we know how to work together and we want to work together. But that doesn't mean that any action of the NAB is beyond my careful supervision of the law. Those actions that go beyond legislation should be considered by an organ that no one can deny the rule of law. The director of the NABU claims that the direction of the SAP leader, who is its procedural leader, is legally worthless. The director of the NABU violates the criminal case against the director of NAMK, who uses the protocol within his jurisdiction. ask and if you refuse to provide information, ask. with the corruption protocol. The director of the NABU violates criminal conduct against the financial audit manager, who signs papers on the illegality of receiving an apartment as head of the NABU. All of this means the position of the person who says I'm untouchable, I'm in special status. I believe that if a person does not recognize the authority of the head of the SAP or the authority, because I have not been given the appropriate control functions, the Attorney General, he must come personally to the Supreme Council and report on why one body has become a new "CK" that wants to put itself outside the law and general order. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you today to remove this subject and ask the chairman -- this is my personal request -- to send a telegram to the leadership of the N.A.U.U. and the S.A.P., who are in Washington, D.C., carrying out an important state mission. I couldn't go to this conference because I was loaded, and I've been able to talk about the biggest special confiscation in the last 100 years, one and a half billion, but the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, I think in two days, could have reported a return to the budget of 26,000 dollars. And it can go back to Kiev to stand on the stand of the Supreme Council and report on the legality or illegality of certain actions. So please, I would ask or suggest that the Head of the Supreme Council direct such a telegram and tomorrow see in the rostrum of those who begin this, in my view, a law-abiding war between revenge. If that's good for you, I'm going to move on to the next topic, which is equally resonant today, I'd say key to the future legal state of Ukraine. It's about Michael Saakashvili. But I'd like to ask the chairman to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u3	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich. We'll add time if we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u4	Thank you. I would ask if I could report now on the situation around Saakashvili, so I would ask about 15 minutes before and after the video, as well as a demonstration, actually, of the video material. Can I count on that?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u5	Yes, please. Do you want to turn on the video now?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u6	No, it's not. A few words before that. Dear National MPs, and I'm here for you, although I'm sure you know the circumstances of the resonant criminal case of the organized crime group Yanukovic, and for our audiences, I want to remind the audience once again. The U.S. Attorney General’s Office thanked the Supreme Council for the possibility of the so - called distance investigation and in absentia. That neighborhood of Yanukovich that ran off to rob our country. I would like to remind you once again that at the moment when Prime Minister Yacinuk took his post after Maidan, there were less than $10,000 in the State Treasury for everything: pensions, health care, social payments and even for the war solved by Yanukovic. All of this means the terrible theft that took place during those years. Once again, according to experts who are criminally responsible for their findings, the size of the theft and its company in Ukraine has reached about $40 billion, this is Ukraine's annual budget. Among all the members of the organized crime group, Kurchenko takes the lead. Sergey Kurchenko, who, after Janukovich came to power, made a decision to monopolize the sale of compressed gas, artificially increasing the quantity needed for the population at low prices, resold it several times more expensive for controlled and uncontrollable industrial enterprises. The total damage to this scheme of Kurchenka reached 14 billion dollars, only in this scheme. There is also another scheme under which Curchenko, without any payments to the state budget, actually imported the entire amount of fuel-oil materials into Ukraine, writing them down as if for transit to Transnistria, which would have already bathed in oil, if that were true. The truth is that all oil and gas traders in Ukraine had to run their equipment through Kurchenk, leaving billions out of the government budget. In fact, it was a huge internal offshore, where no payments were made for oil and gas in Ukraine. It was this Kurchenko who escaped from Ukraine one of the first and is now receiving legal documents from the Attorney General's Office in Moscow on the suspicion of committing particularly serious crimes as part of the organized crime group Yanukovic. This suspicion has been announced to him a long time ago. As established in the law enforcement agencies, we, together with the Ukrainian Security Service, are investigating the likelihood that members of the LRA, such as Kurchenka, will not be punished by the possible corruption of the courts, prosecutors, investigators, any other organs. This is done in almost all serious cases, the so - called super-operable escort of those who are suspected or accused. In the course of this investigation, the Ukrainian Security Service of Kiev, Kyiv region, together with the investigating branch of the International Department of Civil Aviation, has identified the contacts of Sergey Kurchenka and his assistant, whose right hand we do not declare in the interests of the investigation today. Although today both Kurchenko and this person have already been assigned new suspicions about the actions you are about to see on the screen. It has also been established that these persons, Kurchenko and his assistant, are constantly communicating with the right hand of the leader of the New Forces Movement, Michael Saakashvili, about how much funding has to be allocated to the insurgency in order to eliminate the current power in Ukraine. I underline that it is precisely the financing of the insurgency and the dumping in an illegal way of acting in Ukraine and in fact the rematch of the pro-Russian forces in order to undo all the criminal persecution of Yanukovich and his environment and the return of Kurchenk's assets to his property, stolen assets, apparently. All of this has been documented in court decisions through legal procedures, including the cooperation of two citizens of the Russian Federation of Ukrainian Descent who, in the course of our development, have shown a desire to cooperate with the Ukrainian investigation. Thank God, there's a lot more Ukrainians in Moscow, I mean real Ukrainians. We have also documented operational currency numbers for Saakashvili for the organization of so - called national protests. The total amount of funding that you are about to see is about half a million dollars. Of these, nearly half were documented in coupon numbers, and under audio and video control, Michael Saakashvili was handed over to Severion Dangadze’s right hand. This person keeps talking to the right hand and to Kurchenk himself, and he received the money directly. After we were given a court order to search and apprehend this person, after the leak of information we are currently engaged in, this person escaped from Kiev a few weeks ago. At the end of last week, this person was discovered in the city of Bucoville, where he was, as it were, on. hiding his place. Operations Service. The operational unit of the Ukrainian Security Service left last Saturday for his apprehension and followed him to Lviv, where he, apparently possessing the skills of operating counter-intelligence, discovered a car that, due to weather conditions, could not have moved more than 40 kilometers at that time, and near one of the lion's supermarkets escaped Severion Dangaze from the car. His companion was detained, and all financial documents were found in the car, indicating the use of Kurchenk’s transport funds and the financing of Saakashvili’s television programs. This person, called Nazar, whose name is in the interest of the investigation we are not yet making public, is a permanent consultant to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Anti-Corruption Policy. After that, the Ukrainian Security Service, which had no doubt felt guilty about the loss of a prime figure, tracked down Dongadze’s citizen all night in Ukraine, eventually found him on his loved one’s car. This car moved at a speed of 180 kilometers an hour to the Russian border. As a result of a GP and BP operation near Luben, this car was detained by police officers, and Severion Dongadze was detained, searched. It found parts of the coins handed over by the Kurchen to organize mass acts of disobedience in the witnesses. Undoubtedly, the same coins are now hidden in their wallets by those who have been deceived or who deliberately serve the Moscow mammoth under the Supreme Council in half - empty tents. So I think everything I've said is best confirmed by the audio and video footage received by the Ukrainian Security Service. But respected national MPs and Ukrainian citizens, I immediately apologize for the overly frequent uncensored expressions that are echoing. Considering that only yesterday all the films were legalized, we were not able to make all the "burning" too neatly, I apologize to the Ukrainian people for the way the dawn of Ukrainian democracy and progress is communicating. Please turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, I'm going to give an order to the Apparatus to maximize the silence of all uncensored swearing. And please turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u8	Thus a link was established between Saakashvili and the right hand of Kurchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u9	One second, it's a day. You will now hear the day after Saakashvili's first action at the Supreme Council. Take special note of the treatment of regular participants who are not familiar with sources of funding and action. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u10	Let's go to the bathroom, the bathroom's burned.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u11	My sound's been turned off. Read it because. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the sound, people want the sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u12	Colleagues, I'm just asking you to turn off the sound. It's all written. That's what Ukraine's all about. I'm asking you to turn off the sound during surgery. There are inscriptions, look closely. I'm not suggesting, I'm reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u13	It's not really the sound, it's the envelopes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Hundreds of thousands stolen in Ukraine, money transferred into the hands of Saakashvili. Count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u14	My colleagues, while you're watching, have five minutes in total. After the shooting, Yuri Vitaliyovich will do one more message, and then we'll finish, and his closing word will be. I'd like to emphasize once again that there's an uncensored lexic. There's room for reading. We can't speak this level of language from the main rostrum of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u15	Colleagues, in 30 seconds the sound will be turned on, in 30 seconds the sound will be turned on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u16	And now there's a pause, two words: Yuri Vitaliyovich. And there's only one and a half minutes left. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u17	Dear National MPs, as you've seen on the last two operational videos, under the control of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Henprocurator's "right hand" Saakashvili Severion Dalidze received about 220,000 euros, as well as part of the dollar in this amount, to restore the protest. You have also seen the transmission of a special phone to Kurchenk, who they believe is protected from listening to Ukrainian intelligence. So on this phone, in one of the following days, the hope of the people gathered in the tent town of Saakashvili, Saakashvili himself, as the dawn of democracy and legality, and honesty, he had a conversation with Kurchenk, who is in Moscow. Please turn it on. And so is the sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u18	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! To sum up, I would like to express my great gratitude to the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, who have prevented this first phase of the planned FSB, the Russian Winter Plan in Kiev. I'm telling you right now, this is just the first stage of what we know, and I have no doubt that I will come to the Supreme Council with information, and perhaps with references to the next Ukrainian actors, who, for money, are trying to destroy Moscow's post-Majdan authorities and lead to Yanukovich's rematch and his environment controlled by the FSB. I am also extremely grateful to the Ukrainian people, who, unlike many very experienced politicians, immediately understood all the falseness and immorality of popularism and calls for the overthrow of power, which Saakashvili has consistently sounded for the money of the foreign oligarchs. It was this people that didn't go to the stock market, and you heard about it in the lists: just our human-hour protestors. So in this situation, I have to report that a passport from a Ukrainian citizen named Saakashvili was finally found following a search of Severion Dangaze in his homes in Kiev. In fact, it was finally found, and this lie, maybe a little but start-up lie, from the moment it was cynical, for $300,000, the break-in of the Ukrainian border also came out. I also have to say that given what we found in his apartment, yesterday and today we presented to him in a consistent manner article 256, this is "Cooperation with members of a criminal group," and 110th "State Betrayal" by a citizen of Ukraine to Severion Dangadze. Also, last night we held a meeting at which it was accepted that the evidence obtained was sufficient to detain Michael Saakashvili to present him with suspicion in article 256 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code as a contribution to the participation of the criminal organizations and to cover up their criminal activities. In this connection, we arrived at Saakashvili's apartment at 7 a.m. in a court-sanctioned procedure, along with a lawyer, who refused to open it. The door was broken, just as this law allows us in similar cases. Michael Saakashvili himself jumped up to the roof and spent about an hour and a half on the roof with cries, "Kiev, get up!".. After not getting up, Michael Saakashvili threatened to throw himself off the roof. Of course, we had to endure all of this by experiencing and caring for the life of the suspect, the more faithful, the future suspect. After that Michael Saakashvili gave good for detention, he was still transported from a very slippery and dangerous roof, I'm serious about the apartment where he was declared detained in the presence of a lawyer. Since then, he has been taken under the protection of the Ukrainian Security Service. At this point, fewer than a hundred activists were gathered near the entrance of the building, who were apparently unaware of Saakashvili’s financial connections to Yanukovich’s surroundings and demanded his release. Five SBA personnel were finally surrounded by this crowd, seven were cut off in another car, and unfortunately, without sufficient reinforcement by the National Police, all of this ended by escaping from the custody of Michael Saakashvili himself, which is in itself a criminal offence. We also consider criminal acts to be criminal acts, and criminal conduct has already been reported, the conduct of all persons who have impeded the legal protection of the Ukrainian State by the Ukrainian security forces. Among them are active national deputies: Igora Lucenka, Yuri Derevyanka, Svetlana Zlatschuk, Mustafa Nayem, Oleg Petrenko, Yuri Lewchenka, Sergija Lechchenka, Viktor Chumak Of course, right now I can't talk about any suspicion, the investigation will definitely ask the National MPs in question and evaluate their actions, which led to their escape from custody. A person, on a reasonable basis, must be suspected of committing a particularly serious crime against the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian State. I think this has to be stopped. Since the break-in at the border, where the disgraceful actions of the national deputies and the payment of 300,000 oligarchic money, so-called Saakashvili activists, have led to the slaughter of our foreign military personnel, this disgrace has increased. Unfortunately, I have to apologize to the Supreme Council today, as the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the fact that Ukraine's law enforcement system has not taken sufficient steps to ensure that this escape from custody is not possible. Regrettably, we thought that a person who had such ties with Moscow could not count on any support not only for the common people but for Ukraine’s national deputies. However, this was not the case, as it was supposed, that the desire for power, personal gain, was flooding the eyes of those who, despite the obvious ties of Saakashvili to Moscow, wanted to continue their subversive activity here. The great Ukrainian poet said, "Pants, dirt of Moscow." Otherwise, I can't appreciate it. I am fully aware that there are many people who do not love or even hate active authority. When all these shares started, you saw in the videos, they were very counting on the launch, "which is very beneficial to us," as they said. As Attorney General, I have assured you that the Ukrainian authorities, after two courts, guarantee any Ukrainian the right to a peaceful protest, regardless of any action that provokes law enforcement, we have kept our word, and all those who demonstrate peacefully have the legal right to do so. Unfortunately, as a person can say, even full of reasons, because living in Ukraine is, in fact, extremely difficult. People have the right to protest, and thousands of people who have come under the walls of the Supreme Council are using their constitutional law. But a few dozen rematchers, radicals of power, who thought of force, as you've seen here, "species, and without blood here," did everything to prevent this right of people from being allowed. I would like to commend the law enforcement system that has been able to detain people from Saakashvili and Severion Dungaze, who were purchasing weapons, as recorded by the Ukrainian Security Service. They created shelters right next to Gruszewski Street, and this is documented in the course of the investigation. Prepared for bloodshed during these actions to throw Ukraine into the chaos of internal opposition. I also have to say that now you can look at all of the events of deportation, extradition, detention, taking charge of those people who were the most active fighters of this small group, who behind the backs of several thousand people were going to take Saakashvili into the Supreme Council's premises and overthrow him in an unconstitutional way. And you also hear about it on film, about that purpose. So, dear friends, once again, and again, I would like to emphasize, this is just one episode of a large-scale Russian winter plan in Kiev. I know what I'm talking about. I remember a few weeks ago someone laughed at Lucenko’s promise and, as always? He didn't say anything. I actually said I had evidence and foreign funding for Saakashvili's shares, and in due course I'll prove it. This time has come. I suggest that everyone who is in a tent town near the Supreme Council review these records at 24 hours and make a decision for themselves. Everyone in this country can be in power or opposition, even out of politics, but no one can be against the Ukrainian state, no one can support the Kremlin's plan. [[Applause]] So I stand in the position of legality and humanism, and no force action with the shedding of blood that has been desired for several months by the organizers of this Sabbath, we will try not to allow. In 24 hours, however, Ukraine’s entire law enforcement system will do its utmost to put the appetizer Michael Saakashvili, who is apparently involved in financial equipment involving oligarchs, including Moscow, before the investigator for the prosecution, and then before the court, where the prosecutor will be harassed by his home arrest. Although there is a precautionary measure after today’s escape, such a mild precaution is already questioned. However, as a man who cares for peace in Ukraine, I believe that coming to the investigator tomorrow at 9:00, to the Ukrainian Security Service investigator, on Vorovsky's own street, Michael Saakashvili will take away the country he loves so much. I urge Saakashvili to show at least once the manly courage and responsibility for his words, to stop lying, to water the dirt, to meet the Ukrainians among themselves, and to come to the investigating Ukrainian State to obtain legal procedural documents. I consider this to be the only thing worthy of a man and citizen of any state or even a non-citizens of any state to do so. I also ask all who are in Saakashvili's tents to make a decision: to be in opposition — please criticize, dislike and even protest against our authority — your right, but you must stop doing Moscow's script, remove tents, present stolen Coins from Kurchenka's money to the investigators, and help eventually burn this disease in the Ukrainian politics. Actually, I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u19	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Colleagues, now I'm reminding you: 25 minutes of questions from factions and groups. Questions from factions and groups, and therefore, colleagues, I ask you to record. [[B in m in s a l in]] They'll be after the factions, like when they're full-reading. Please, the factions first. Self-help, Roman Semenha. It's a question. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u20	Your Honor, I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know if what the Attorney General showed us today is true or a lie - that's what the court should say. I'll tell you one thing: Shockin was a prosecutor, and he brought us a film that at least made an impression, even though it also turned out to be broken in court. I want to ask you something else, Mr. Prosecutor. Why did the symbols of the Attorney General's Office go away with the words, "Law, Honor and Dignity"? And I think it has a direct bearing on today's presentation of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u21	Dear Mr. Berezuk, I have always called for judging, not by words, but by actions. I have a receipt in my hands for 25,000 shares, and I have landing papers in my hands for the transport of party activists, including your organization, and I know for sure that's Yanukovich's money. [[Noise Nodes]] And another thing is, if you, Mr. Berezuk, from the city of Lviv elected by the People's Deputy, are concerned that the word symbol of the KGB's CDC has disappeared from the coat of arms, I am deeply sorry for those of your electors who have chosen you. The days of the totalitarian system are over! I promised from this rostrum that I would put an end to the penal, totalitarian system of the GPU and create a prosecutor's office of a European model, that's what I did. On the board of the new DA's office, the Ukrainian coat of arms is Trident, if you haven't noticed, Mr. Berezuk. And I'm protecting him from selling politicians who are organizing shares for Kurchenka and Yanukovich's money! I think it would be best for you to go to the center of Lviv today, get on your knees, kiss the National Flag, and form a mandate to acknowledge the political disgrace of your power, which works for Moscow's money!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u22	People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u23	I know you're brave. I know you'll never have the courage to do that, so I'll meet you at the coroner's office and in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u24	Maxim Burbak of the People's Front question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, well, I'm sure most of you, after reviewing the video and listening to the Henprocurator's report, are re-examined by the facts that have happened recently in Ukraine. We had a show here today. invited law enforcement officials to combat corruption in the higher echelons of power to consider other issues. But, Yuri Vitaliyovich, I'd like to ask you, was there a hearing court permit for us to see this right now? Will this be the facts in the courts? Because we should have discussed other hearings that were not authorized by the court earlier today. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Maxime Burbak, Attorney General of Ukraine, at least in the criminal conduct that I personally control, certainly adheres to the spirit and the letters of the Ukrainian law. All acts carried out in this criminal activity have been duly authorized by the court in accordance with the law. All the actions, listening to Kurchenk's money transfer to Saakashvili's right hand, have been given proper permission by the Ukrainian courts. Everything's legal in this case is fine. I'm sure the lawyer Saakashvili is aware of this, or he wouldn't have escaped from the Ukrainian Security Service's operating car and wouldn't be hiding behind the backs of the deceived or bought by him for Yanukovich's money.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u27	Arthur Gerasimov, from Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the Attorney-General's Office, the Security Service, personally the Attorney-General for this operation, which has indeed revealed the relationship between the Saakashvili team and the Yanukovich environment for the purpose of subversive activity in Ukraine. Besides, you know, looking at the events that have taken place today, I would sincerely refer to, for example, the specialty of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, so that they, together with their brothers, who were at war with them in the ATO, the specialty of other law enforcement agencies, would help them not to coincide with the protection of such characters as Saakashvili. And, Yuri Vitaliovich, the question is very simple. After what we've seen, after what we've all heard here, how much, from your point of view, and according to evidence, the Russian Federation FSB is involved in funding and supporting the Saakashvili activities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u29	Thank you for asking. At this point, I have no direct evidence because Kurchenko acted with direct guidance in these transmissions of the Russian Federation's FSB. But it is known from the sources of information that Kurchenko himself, using his connections in the higher offices of the Russian authorities, talks about it on film today, has a business in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, has another protection of his interests, his business. But once again, once again, I want to say, the Ukrainian Security Service and the U.S. Attorney General's Office are the main topics of the FSB's "Russian Winter in Kiev" plan, which in particular? predicted and described today on. in the action information given to you. We know the next person to plan Moscow's funds in connection with LNR, DNR, other actions to undermine the constitutional system in Ukraine. We know that, and we'll prove it, in due course we'll publish it. It's a long-term plan. And I'm proud that the Ukrainian Security Service and prosecutors are able to give away his first attempt. We'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u30	Thank you. From the faction of "The Father" Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u31	Yuri Vitaliovich. I will ask the representatives of Jura Yenokiewsky not to shout so. Yuri Vitaliyovich, please tell us, we also saw on the Ukrainian television of the mountain of coupons that were taken from the golden office of "watching" by Jura Yanakiyevski Anisimov in Zaporozhym. All the money went missing, the newscasts, the millions of bracelets that were signed, where they came from, the utility companies to which they were distributed, the governors, the mayors, and everything else. We've seen a lot of videos here. And in the last six months, the same Kurchenka, Yanukovitch, Juru Yenakiyevsky and tens or tens of other names were taken out of the search. I have one question when you return to Interpol to search for these people again, not to walk on Monaco, Moscow and other capitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Sergei, thank you so much for not repeating the false information that you've been sharing about the fact that Anishimov himself has been found. It's not true, it's not taken. Thank you for being more specific this time. I want to let you know the next time, and you've heard this from me in person, that unfortunately, Interpol's new leadership is using the right article on probable political grounds not to put red search cards on many of Ukraine's former seniors. That's true. As truth is, I've turned to Parliament in this regard, and I thank you all very much, including your "Fatherland" faction, for the fact that the Law on the Possibilities of Probation and then the Special Regime of Judicial Investigation was supported by you, which opened the way to our actions. I am proud to inform you that the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, led by me, has completed the investigation against Yanuković, Zacharychenk and Jakimenko, who, according to our version, gave a criminal order to shoot peaceful demonstrators in Maidan. And this case is in the court with permission of the oblivious nature of the sentence. We have also completed investigations into Azarov, Arbusov, Klimenko, Kurchenka, Stavitsky, and many other high - ranking owners of the Janukovich neighborhood. All of these cases, the materials are in court, and we're waiting for permission to go to trial and bring them to court for a special investigation regime. The enormous, titanic work carried out by the prosecutions ’ investigators over the past three years has actually gone to the final stage, to the courts. It is now in the courts that maximum public, perhaps even parliamentary control is needed. I also want to tell you that the funds that were found in Anisimova in Zaporozhye in 2014 are nowhere to be lost, they are in a fixed place under the appropriate seals. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u33	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u34	True, these bags of money have disappeared, from which businesses are likely to have received the money. I have to admit this, of course, although it was two years before my appointment, and I can only regret, in this case, that we have taken away one of the very important evidence. Nevertheless, the organized criminal group that was active in Zaporozhye territory in the time of Johnishtenka, Anishimova, those other actors, acts and is delayed by persons in your hometown of Zaporozhye. They are under precautionary measures to be taken by the courts. Anisimo himself is in search, and when he is found, he will be taken into custody. I guarantee you this as well as any other legal action to protect the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u35	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lozova, right? Please turn on the Lozo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u36	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party. I wanted to remind everyone and the people of Ukraine that our team is exactly the leader of Oleg Lasko, Igor Mosiyczuk, Dmitry Linko, and I have been talking from day one about the mistake of calling Saakashvili here, that it is the Georgian Yanukovich, who by the elbow in the blood of his people, is absolutely. That his citizenship is illegal, that he is an unprincipled person who, for the sake of power and money, is willing to go beyond any moral boundaries. And time has shown our trueness. Better late than never. At the same time, it was better than never, dear Yuri Vitaliovich. You quoted Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk very correctly today as "slaves, feet, dirt of Moscow." I wanted to remind you that in September of last year, you were anouncing an application for a Moscow agent named Mikola Skorak, who was present in this room personally managing aunts who had crippled journalists and activists in the Odessa Jewish community. Enter the submission. The time has come.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u37	Dear Mr. Lozov, I would like to express my personal point of view that Saakashvili's invitation to Ukraine was a short-sighted decision. In view of the many events and not only those related to Saakashvili, I believe that the Ukrainian State must make a decision on the purpose of granting citizenship to the head of any ministry or department. Personally, I think the status of counselors is enough to use foreign experience. That's the first one. The other one. I didn't answer, I'm sorry, the previous one and I'd like to remind you, too. I've already said that I'm forced as a Henprocuror to apologize for the ineffective actions of law enforcement today. I fully realize that democracy cannot be protected by weak forces. Yes, it is true that five U.S. employees today have been thinking about how not to go about those who want to shed blood. Sadly, however, Ukraine’s law enforcement system today has shown weakness. I think that's unacceptable, because any state is a binding right and a mandatory responsibility. I can say that because I didn't run away from my country. And I stood before the law even when it was crooked. So today, once again, with your support, honourable national MPs, I urge Saakashvili to come to the investigation, and all those who have been misled and demagogy, to fold up their tents and stop destroying the Ukrainian state. As far as Scorch's concerned. I've already spoken several times from this rostrum, as in yours, Mr. Andrey, one of the cases, and in the case of Scorch, I'm the Attorney General, who doesn't use antipathies. I really do have some evidence that suggests a possible offence, a criminal offence against Mr. Skork. But according to the prosecutor’s assessment, a case that is the only one that has the right to determine whether or not the suspicions are sufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u38	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u39	Evidence is not enough. I'm talking to you, to all the Odessa, to all the Ukrainians who have evidence that the criminal team beating up the Jews under Governor Skorak's windows was giving him this evidence. One or two testimonies will lead to a change in the prosecutor's position. Understand, I'm a man from Maidan, but that doesn't mean that I'm going to plant those who beat the ground, or else the dragon will eat democracy again. I can't be that person.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u40	And the last question from the factions is from the faction of the opposition block, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich! We think today's event is one of those that just destroys the international image of our nation. Because we are used to such events, and when the whole world sees them, the question arises worldwide: Is there the leadership of our nation when such things go unpunished? And today, the person you're accusing is just standing next to the Council at the rally. But that's not my question. I have a question for both the speaker and you, Yuri Vitaliyovich. Our faction has registered a draft ruling on the report of law enforcement officials regarding the most resonant crimes that have occurred in our country in recent years. This means resonant killings, bombings, bombings of arsenals and all that. And society is waiting for a report on how this investigation is going, not the political show that is happening today under the walls of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Boyko! First of all, I disagree, as in most cases, with your position, because I think the whole world today sees that the Ukrainian state knows how to defend itself. We have not allowed it, we have revealed it, we have made it public, and we are confident that we will punish the criminal acts of those who want to destroy the Ukrainian state for Moscow's money. And I think today's problems with Saakashvili, which are causing such sincere smiles in the MPs, are close to the sitting quarters, from a group of his support, who are happy that he wasn't detained, temporary. As the unsowers once said during the action "Ukraine without Couchma": "It's all about payback time." For all those who have taken an interest in the Ukrainian state, that is absolute. And one more thing. Mr. Boyko, let me not answer the second part of your question, because we're in a conflict of interest, because an investigation that goes on to the so-called "higher Boyko" is about to present materials to remove parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u43	Colleagues, therefore, ended questions from factions. We are now moving on to questions from the national MPs. Please, 15 minutes, please record. Which of the national MPs would like to ask a question, please hold the record. Please have a question from the National MPs. Please turn on the record. Yes, please, the first person to be invited to the question, Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich. I remind you, this question, the speeches will come after questions, now only questions. Then, at the request of the factions, I'll give the performances from the factions. Now, here's a question for clarification. Amelchenko Basil gives the word to Oleg Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u44	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Mr. Attorney General! Article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine: "Members of political parties may only be citizens of Ukraine." I have a question for you as to a person who is in charge of an organ that should require the authorities to respect the rule of law. Why do non - Ukrainian citizens conduct political activities in Ukraine? Why do not Ukrainian citizens allow for chaos in Ukraine, which discredits the Ukrainian state? I have a very simple question, can any citizen feel safe in his own country when there is no authority, no law, no constitutional rule, no respect for the Constitution itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u45	Dear Mr. Lazko! As you may well recall, the Supreme Council has taken from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine a Soviet ordium of general oversight that I could require from other authorities to comply with certain laws. This practice is not recognized as European and has been repealed in the current Prosecutor’s Act. I no longer have the capacity to write prescriptions required for execution. What you're talking about, I completely share. I'm really worried about registering hundreds of fairy parties that aren't really like that, but are just tools of corruption in elections. I am also concerned about the political activity of not the citizens of Ukraine, but even the citizens of Russia, who openly carry out political agitation on television and radio from other media in Ukraine. In your time, you will also see links between Kurchenka’s funds, which were passed on to protest against the Murai channel. I think that in the near future we are doing what we can, because the administrative punishment provided for in such cases should be decided by the National Police and the Court. However, we will do what we can. I very much hope that by the new year, a gift for all honest Ukrainians will be the end of the pro-Russian media, which marks our streets and the brains of individual trusted Ukrainians. We have already passed the proper procedure and look forward to entering into the legal force of such a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u46	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solovay, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u47	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Your Honor, the Attorney General! I think so. And I'm addressing you as the highest official in the law enforcement system, and I think you realize that today's situation is a test for Ukraine's law enforcement system. And so I have a very simple question: how reliable and confident do you think Kurchenko's involvement in financing Saakashvili is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u48	Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u49	In my activities, I am guided not only by my own personal viewpoint but also by the conclusions of the highly professional prosecutors and experts who each time see the documents that the trial director takes on his criminal responsibility. In this case, prosecutors who are conducting the case are absolutely convinced that there is sufficient evidence to announce it. to arrest Michael Saakashvili under article 256 for promoting a criminal organization. This is their decision by professionals who have appropriate education and many years of practice. They have also served suspicions of contributing to a criminal organization and the assassination of the right hand of Mr. Saakashvili to Severion Dangaze, who is in the Ukrainian Security Service insulator. What you're saying about the law enforcement test. I understand that, but I understand even more. This is a test for Ukrainian society. From my point of view, a state that does not know how to defend itself is doomed to be a servant in other nations. So in this case, despite my close enough relationship with Saakashvili, I have to say, he has crossed the red line that separates the politics of any state from anyone suspected of committing a serious crime. Yes, I spent two tours where I often met Saakashvili. Yes, I was in Georgia during his presidency and had no close discussions with him. But this does not deprive me of the obligation to act against this person today, who challenges the Ukrainian State openly. It's a test for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u50	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u51	At one time, the Gothman of Krapadsky said that the Ukrainians always wanted everything, and now, and in this. They're destroying their country. I'm sure we've drawn conclusions from years of mistakes. Midan, the bloody war in the east, should teach us to gather together, regardless of political views, when the challenge is for the Ukrainian State. This time I'm also looking at it not only as a test for the GPA or the BPO, but also as a test.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u52	Thank you. Please ask Mr. Berezenko the next question. Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u53	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u54	Please turn on Alexia Hotcharyenko’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u55	Dear Mr. Attorney General! I have the following question: what is the legal status of Patriage Michael "Carlson" Saakashvili, "to the measure of the man in question, in the very bloom of power," who has actually fled from Ukrainian law enforcement and is now hiding behind his back, or is it paid, or is it a deluded protestor? And what will be the effect of Ukrainian law enforcement if tomorrow morning, at 9:00 in the morning, this "daunty jig" doesn't come for questioning at the B.C.I.? What will be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u56	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u57	Dear Mr. Hotcharenko, I would like to allow myself to advise you not to take offense, especially at those whom you consider to be your enemy. This only increases their self - interest. I think it is necessary even for the enemy to leave room for honor and personal dignity. Michael Saakashvili is certainly a well-known international actor, and that's the biggest problem today, is that this person, using his former credits to Georgia and Ukraine, is even Ukrainians, using the funds of organized crime groups. Mr. Lechchenka, we can ask you how much fun it is for you to laugh there, from Saakashvili, and not stop me from speaking. Take the line, anything! But an extremely eager smile on your mouth indicates how happy you are to escape from a person suspected of a public crime! At least you'd eat lemon! I'm going on with my answer. [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll have a replica and a lemon. From Kurchenk. So, Mr. Honcharenko, status: Saakashvili is a man who has escaped from custody, and this puts into question the possibility of a humane prosecutor's office tomorrow or the following days after the announcement of suspicion to offer him a home arrest. We're going to think about it, but we're going to think about, first of all, the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u58	Thank you. Fellows, I would ask that there be a more peaceful atmosphere in the room, because it's hard and already a talker, and that everyone hears each other better. As for the replica, and now all questions will be answered, then, according to the procedure, we will give the right to a replica. Please, Bondar of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u59	Please give me the word of Teteruku Andria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u60	Andrew Teteruk, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Attorney General, since 2014, our Parliament has been doing everything possible to protect our country from the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. In this room, we made more than one important state decision that strengthened our country. And we understand who the main enemy is, the enemy is sitting in the Kremlin. But we also realize that he is using all possible and impossible means to destroy our nation. But our nation can't fight on two fronts -- on the outside and on the inside. So I am addressing you, the Head of the Security Service and the President of the country, to do everything I can to get the situation under control and all those who are making killings with obvious evidence to fund the bankers of the Janukovich crime family, so that they can be openly held accountable so that the trial can be understood by all society and the whole world, and we have stopped fighting on two fronts. Internal enemies have to sit behind bars.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u62	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u63	Thank you. So from. Next question. And the answer. Yes, please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Teteruk! Unfortunately, I have to tell you the truth, we're still going to be fighting on two fronts, that's reality, and let's not fool ourselves. Like hundreds of years earlier, Ukrainians will fight both external and internal enemies. And the only way to win is to feel internal unity, regardless of party or regional or any other interest. You can talk a lot about patriotism, but right now it's on the front and on that second front. Where it comes to the need to be in the Ukrainian Investigative Ukrainian Security Service, there can be no discussion. Everyone from the Attorney General to the stateless Saakashvili must stand before the investigation and give answers, and be responsible for their actions. I think it's obvious. The only thing I can point out exactly in your question is that I guarantee that all trials over Michael Saakashvili will be open, with all due process followed. Yeah, it's hard, we're fighting Russia for the first time and the internal war with its agents in keeping with all the high standards of European law. But we will cross this road and prove that truth and law protect Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u65	Thank you. The next question is from the National MP. The river Andriy Alexanderovich. Passes the word to Lapin Igor, right? Please, Igor Lapin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u66	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Attorney General, of course I would like to thank you, including you, and the Ukrainian Security Service, who are doing the titanium work. But as far as I can think about my legal education, I can say that a bloody move into Ukrainian government institutions, including parliament, we saw this scenario happen in Georgia, and there were so many of these scenarios. I think there's 256 articles -- it's, well, too tolerant. However, if we are talking about possible captures of state institutions, this gives the Ukrainian Security Service grounds for entering without waiting for the morning and allowing for pianization, including in the blood of Ukrainians. So I think we need to pay attention here to the back of our power structures. And you have a personal question. Stop talking about the Opposition Block. Why don't you join us in Parliament more often? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u67	Dear Mr. Lapin, with your permission, I fully share your point of view here, but I will stop for one moment. As you know, over the course of this year, we have proven that the intrusiveness, the MP's intrusiveness can be overturned if there are grounds for that, and I am deeply grateful for that. However, there is another problem: whether there is where to go to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine or to other authorities after the investigation is made. Unfortunately, I have to say it again. In the Cave Court, there are only four judges, fragments of ancient times, who have long lived. they've been to Afona. And for example, I'm very good at thinking if there's any possibility of bringing Novinsky's case to this court at all, give it to me for honesty. I ask you, honourable national deputies, constantly to ask the President to fill vacancies in all the courts of Ukraine, to bring in new honest and professional judges who are in no way connected with the former regime, with the possible violations of the present regime. We really need the courts. Think about it, we've crossed the risk of 9,000 corrupts being held in the hot air this year -- 9,000 this year. To be exact, 9,000 144 of them are already in court. But the sentences are, yes, four times more than ever, but still only 800. And we need thousands and thousands to change the atmosphere with corruption in our country. So if I have any. The request under the tree to the Supreme Council, these are the new honest judges in all the courts, starting with the capital. It would be the greatest gift and the greatest tool to finally have those who walk it long ago in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u68	Thank you, colleagues. The time spent on questions by national deputies is exhausted. It's a replica, isn't it? Please, 1 minute, Lechchenko Replica. And then, as I promised, come out of factions by writing the same thing. Please, one minute, line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u69	I want to tell Henprosecutor that he's probably being misinformed. Because only 10 a.m. did I come by train from Zaporozhye. There was no way I could help Saakashvili to interfere or interfere. And as for Kurchenk, let Henprocuror ask, and to whom did Kurchenko pay a few hundred million dollars for Ukrainian media holding a few years ago? Perhaps he does not know the names of Dusty and Lozkina who received this money from Kurchenk. If Henprosecutor is interested, let him tell you why he saved Yuri Boyke from the Kurchenk case of scrapped gas. Two and a half years ago, investigators prepared a draft of a suspected and submitted to parliament about the arrest of Boyko. And Lucenko, like Shockin, failed to submit to Boyko for the Kurchenka case, which is about half a billion dollars of stolen Ukrainian money! And if it is of great interest, let him explain why he does not file a case against Luke, the suspicion of Luke, and why he is blocking the case of Pszenka in Kornatsky, who has already reported to the world how he had been racketeering it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u70	Thank you. Colleagues, so, as I promised, now. Oh, the answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u71	Sergio Leschchenko, I remember the day you and your friends asked us for a list. And then I told you, and then I told you, take one thing that you understand and bring it to the end, and you'll become a truly recognized and authoritative politician. Sadly, that was not the case. Let me put it very simply. You're gonna lie to the world, and you're not gonna be a politician. All your lies that you have just heard have been repeatedly challenged by officials, including the investigation. But you want to be seen and so forgotten about your huge apartment that you can't stop lying and therefore support Saakashvili, which gives you a master class in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u72	So, colleagues, pay attention! Now come out of the factions. And then I invite you to the closing word of Yuri Vitaliovich. I'd like to point out that we have 15 minutes left. That's why I have the right to the Rules of Procedure to continue for 15 minutes. This is the period during which we can speak. And I'm asking the factions who want to take part in the three-minute speech to record. Then the closing word, Lucenka. Please record. And I remind you, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. From "self-help" to "Brezuk Oleg" is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u73	I'm going to say again that if it wasn't for the lawyer, he can't appreciate what we heard in the hall right now, because it's just a video for me. The court will tell us and we'll see what's going on. One thing I will say is that in this room we have deprived at least 10 people of MP's in touch who have been so flamingly told by the Attorney-General that we do not see any of the cases brought to trial. We don't see any cases brought before the courts of people who destroyed Ukrainian statehood in 2013, 14 years. But we see cases in the courts and 13 years of imprisonment for those soldiers and soldiers who are fighting for Ukraine. I don't believe it. I want to trust the Attorney General, the highest procedural person in the country. And today, the Attorney General of this rostrum is addressing me, and he says, "I'll see you in the investigation and in the court." Why, do I have an open investigation or a court case? Who do I have to complain about violating my rights as an ordinary citizen of Ukraine and an ordinary national MP? To the Attorney General or to the President of Ukraine? I believe that this situation today harms the guarantor of the rights and laws of Ukraine, the Constitution, because it is the basis of the highest official of the country and the guarantor of our Constitution of the President of Ukraine. Today, the Attorney General is acting as a politician, not as a procedural person, and this is a disgrace to the Ukrainian law enforcement system. And Saakashvili and the video, we need to look into the court and show the country that is destroying the Ukrainian state -- it or those who for three years cannot bring the case to trial of people who are destroying and are now cooperating with the Ukrainian state, sharing their schemes and their money. Where are the grants paid by the Ukrainian budget for people who cannot bear the burden? It's not an oligarch. What oligarchs? Have they changed in the last three years? No, it's not. Because the current authority covers the oligarhat, and the law enforcement system is on their side, not on the side of the Ukrainian man and the Ukrainian politics, which is honest. To whom should I say that today the Attorney General threatened me from the highest court of the Ukrainian Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u74	From the radical party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u75	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. Attorney General Lucenko quoted Gethman Krapadsky as saying. I want to quote another great Gehthman, John Mazep, "Everything dies where the ruler is not ready every minute to protect his country like a lion, like a wolf, like a dog." Saakashvili's problems, which, in fact, are not Saakashvili's problems, they're Ukraine's problems, they're the problems of every Ukrainian. Because where chaos is, where lawlessness is, where disorder is, it's a demonstration for the whole world of the absence of a country, of the absence of a state, it's a humiliation of our state. Where did these problems come from? Who brought this torpedo here, Saakashvili? The government. Who gave them an illegal passport instead of giving them volunteers? The government. Who helped Saakashvili fight against the opponents of power and the President? The government. And today, when they didn't share, they have a country in hostages. That's why I welcome the efforts of the law enforcement agencies to uncover this "bread can." Our team, right from the very beginning, when it came here to Ukraine, we said, should not bring foreigners to Ukraine, but should give the Ukrainians their own opportunity to realize themselves in their own country, not to look for "saves and prophets" abroad. Go to the bazaars, go to the train stations, find a young Ukrainian woman who trades with higher education diplomas, has no opportunity to realize herself in another country, in her own country. But now I want to turn to the politicians, to Timoshenko, who supported the Saakashvili border breakthrough, to a colleague of the reverend Barresuk, to the others. Please tell me, dear colleagues, I hope, unlike Saakashvili, you know that 100 years ago the country was lost because of the strife. What authority is worthy of violating the Ukrainian border? What makes Saakashvili’s invaders different from the invaders who captured the Ukrainian border on Donbas? What authority is worthy of destroying the country from the inside? What do you have to do with Kurchenk, who links you to Saakashvili, who links you to the Kremlin? I'll tell you what connects you, you talk for people, you don't speak for people, because you're lying, you're fighting for power, and for you people, it's a wasteful material in the struggle for power, for you, Ukraine is a wasteful material. But you've forgotten one simple truth, instead of concentrating all your forces on the eastern front today, on the reflection of Russian aggression, you're tearing the country apart from the inside and you're using Saakashvili, you're willing to use the fox's devil and your loving money to get to power because you don't care about Ukraine. For you, first of all, your own political interests. I want to tell the Ukrainians, don't believe those who talk about how they care about the people, they have their own interests at first, not you, the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u76	From Fatherland to the word, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I think the easiest thing to do was to put a mirror here and the person who was looking at it would look at this mirror and tell you about himself, it would be understandable. And now, essentially. And Michael Saakashvili, the hero who saved Georgia, is the man who saved Georgia from the corruption that brought about the order in the courts, is the man who was able to make the economic breakthrough in Georgia. I quote Peter Poroshenko at the presentation of Michael Saakashvili as head of the Odessa District Administration and given him a certificate from a Ukrainian citizen. It was at this very moment that the Head of State gave him the Order. Aren't you ashamed of everything that's going on here? Don't you think you're all participants in one theater of absurdity? When sociologists determine who is to be destroyed and who is to be supported, there is an increase in the rating of one politician that is currently being pulled out, there is an increase in the rating of another, and there is another that needs to be cleared. At least once will the state live by the laws of honor and conscience? With all due respect to the "Prime" channel and the news crew, please tell us if we have Janukovich's money and his son under arrest? Well, this is a channel that was directly linked to Janukovich's son, Alexander, please tell me, how did this segment in Ukraine go? People, what are we doing? Who went to Firtash to Vienna the day before the presidential election? Firtasha, who was arrested in Vienna on the application of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation. In the bribes he gave and accused him of trying to seize Indian resources. What are we doing? I think today there's no question of Saakashvili or anyone else, I remember how others stood on this stand and argued. Lucenko is a criminal, Timoshenko is a criminal, Lyashko is a criminal, all criminals. Where are all these people now? In Moscow, Rostov, you won't be ashamed to listen to all of this, not conclude. There can be no political affairs in the country, there is a crime – in court, prove it. And there's enough concerts here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u78	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Melniczuk. Turn on the microphone, please. It's an act by factions, and the faction determines who's speaking from it. The faction's head told me, Melniczuk. Yeah? Yes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u79	I would like to say to the previous speaker, before you mention and quote Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, mention how your political power took your list of MPs from the Party of the Regions for re-education. Then I discovered that they were not being rehabilitated. But you've already taken them to the Supreme Council. You can guess how you got to the Supreme Council of "the hero of Ukraine" in the paws that now rides all over the globe and burns Ukraine, which wants to bring it back to Moscow, which is doing everything to undermine Ukraine's authority. My speech is still about the fact that I failed to ask Yuri Vitaliovich when he was speaking. We heard a speech here today and we found that the truth was what I always said was that the leadership of the Anti-Corruption Committee was governed by Moscow. And I'd like to hear very much that for such a national MP, an assistant national MP who's taking part in the transfer of money from Moscow to this subversive activity that's now taking place under the walls of the Supreme Council and under the walls of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been getting calls all day from people in the district and they say we want to see the power of Ukraine's power to protect the authority of Ukraine, we want to see the power of our law enforcement agencies that will destroy this "promotional cube" that is in the Supreme Council under the walls of the Supreme Council. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction supports the Attorney General. It supports all the law enforcement agencies in Ukraine. Shame on those who stick to Moscow money! You won't have that much money for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u80	From the People's Front, the head of the Maxim Burbak faction, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please calm down! I emphasize when there are statements from factions, usually I just call the heads of factions. Now we're signed up, sequence! [[B in m in s a l in]] From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, then the Replica, Berezuk. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, Yuri Vitaliovich! We thank you for the meaningful report on recent events in our country. I can make a public statement: at last the masks were taken off, and all the fakes that have been happening in this room for the last three years have been shown to all the Ukrainian people. Now we can re-aware and reflect on the historical events that have taken place in our country recently. Donbasu's blockade. Do you remember the faction that talked about this all the time? As we lost our industry in a temporarily occupied territory, it was placed under the control of Kurchenk, the cashier Yanukovich. Finally, we see why there was such a violent resistance to the special confiscation offered by the People's Front and for a year and a half, the Attorney General took the money from the Yanukovich gang and personally from Kurchenk. Now we understand who had to light the smoke checkers, and our colleague Teteruk had to take them out of this room. Now we know why the Odessa area was demolished by an open public international privatisation contest for the Odessa Port Facility, because Kurchenko wanted to get it back and it needed to be saved. Now we understand who destabilized the situation in the country and ordered the removal of Prime Minister Yatsenuk's government, who did it. Now it's clear to us that we did the right thing at the time, the government-responsible decision of Prime Minister Yatsenuk saved the state and the People's Front team will save it again now. We demand that the Attorney General's Office, the Bureau and other law enforcement agencies restore law and law in our country, an honest court. We're building a state of law, which is what this guy on the street is talking about, let's act legally, not run away from justice. We require the Public Prosecutor's Office to open a public trial and what it is. And those who have acted unlawfully today should answer, as should those who talk about the oligarchs. But I can remind you of the last example: the vote for the secretary of the Czernovetsk City Council, watching from Firtash in Chernobyl during Yanukovich. How these two factions, who here shed tears on this rostrum, succumbed to the urging of the former Janukovic viewers and voted in favour of the restoration of the regions in the Montenegrin City Council. Here are your actions! Do not tell us, do not sow political enmity in the state, or feed people with political garbage. That's not gonna happen. People's Front, our coalition colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u82	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u83	They will do everything they can to ensure that the rule of law and law is restored, and they will do everything they can to ensure that there is no bloodshed in the streets. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u84	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to reiterate that this is not a consideration of the bill. I'll give it to all the factions. It's not a draft. The factions are now coming from the factions, and each faction determines who will speak from it. So stop the intrigue, please. Now one minute of the lineup is Beresuk. And the Opposition Block, like all factions, I'll give you my word. The storm after the Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u85	Unfortunately, the coalition and their rashes, which worked beautifully with the previous regime, in the oligarchic mountain, were terrified that for the first time, they became the institutions that they created in fear of humans after the Dignity Revolution, the NAB, today you're fighting those who support this institution, in the top and the fear, because you know that you've sat down on the same schemes that were under the previous regime, and you don't want to get off them. And on your tails are people who don't trust you. Call someone whatever you want, but time will always be on the side of Ukrainian democracy. And we're all going to protect and defend the Ukrainian institutional state together.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u86	Thank you. Final performance from the "Resistance Block" Storm faction. Then the closing word of Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich. Turn on the microphone. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u87	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I would ask you all to indulge your passions for only one reason: because you are all being slaughtered here, and you are being listened to by millions of citizens. Think about it, they have to go to work tomorrow, they have to go to surgery, they have to go to school, they have to go to the market, they have kids, they have grandchildren. There are different political views. What do they say to each other if they look at the Supreme Council, which breaks up in contradiction? I'll remind you in 2014. This is the square where people from the Opposition Block sat. You were all together, three hundred men together. You all have political responsibility for what is happening in the state today. But that's not even what I'm talking about. I'm addressing you, calm down, shake hands, don't tear Ukraine from the inside. The Attorney General has provided data, regardless of who this data is, if there is a violation of the law, it is necessary to draw on it for violating it. If there is a violation of legislation today to deprive Saakashvili of his citizenship, it has also been a violation when he was handed over. Saakashvili is now one of the few foreigners who has been entangled in power. And we warned: Better give authority to your experts, not to foreigners. Where today and Kvetashvili, where today there are representatives of 300 from Georgia who are in charge in Ukraine. These are all the next steps. She is a foreigner. What's going on? And that's the main thing. I'm looking at mutual insults today. People are good, you were a coalition! Today you have a responsibility. If you, whoever you are today, are calling yourself in opposition and you're talking to a coalition, you're squandering power, that means you're out of the coalition. I call on Self-Help, Fatherland, all of them. If you leave the coalition, get rid of your leadership positions on the committees. You got them because of your participation in the coalition, but you have political responsibility for what's going on in the state. Give up your positions as alternate committee heads, secretaries. Go to the opposition. And finally, I'll tell you one thing. I have a big question, Do many here love Ukraine, or do they love themselves in Ukraine? If you love Ukraine as a state, feel sorry for the people who chose you. They are not guilty of anything; do not sit down with hostility; do not sit down with civil opposition. Because there are a lot of people out there who want us to tear this country apart with our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-12-05-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I did not warn the Attorney General that I would give him the opportunity to conclude his duties. I want to tell you, colleagues, today during the discussion, all these emotions that were in the morning, we were able to fully and ask questions from factions, and ask questions from MPs, and come out of factions. This took almost two hours. And I would like to point out that tomorrow we will continue to discuss other forces. Just so that we don't have an insult, we won't be able to give each force in two hours, we just won't get to any of the issues of order of the day. So I think we'll be listening to the leaders in an hour tomorrow. I'm going to invite the leaders to tomorrow morning's meeting again. And now the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
