ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Are you ready to sign up? Okay. So please take up jobs, get ready for registration. And please register. [[10:03:54]] 361 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Before I move on to the speeches by the people's deputies, I want to announce a statement that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from two political factions: "The Opposition Block" and "The Will of the People". They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I invite you to the words of Yuri Boyke.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u2	Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Our faction is authorized to express a strong protest against the provocations that took place on June 2, this year in the city of Odessa. I want to remind you of the chronology of events. On June 2nd, in Odessa, there was a forum called Women for Peace, which was attended by representatives of various political forces, including the participation of a representative of our political power, National Deputy Natalia Kraljevska. From the very beginning, there were attempts to disrupt this measure of action, this forum called pseudodominance. When this failed, direct provocations came about. On the way out of the forum, on the way out of the building to the Royal Natalia, several people came up in camouflage and created an attack, which resulted in a female MP having three children who were injured. Our faction thinks it's provocation. Our faction requires the leadership of law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General, the minister of internal affairs, to investigate objectively, impartially, and to call to account the provocations who created the attack. It is especially shameful that an attack was made against a female MP who was present at this absolutely peaceful meeting. We think it's just one case of a whole series of radical manifestations that have recently taken place in society, but the most shameful thing is that this has happened against a woman. We demand an investigation. And please consider my statement to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs and Head of the Security Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u3	So let's move on to the agenda. I would like to remind you that on Wednesday, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements and messages to the people's deputies. Once again, this is a performance by national MPs, not by factions. I mean, if a member of a faction didn't record and get into the list of speakers, it doesn't mean that the faction should have a word. I'm asking you to prepare for all those who want to take part in the presentations, and I'm asking you to record the presentation from the rostrum. Please, colleagues, please record. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u4	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u5	Praise Jesus Christ! Deputies! Ukrainian people! Ukraine in the Stockholm Court won the Naftogaz case against Gazprom, lifting the northern neighbour's criminal demand for "take or pay" in a scandalous contract in 2009. In recent years, we have proven that Ukraine can be energy independent of Russia, that we are less consuming Russian gas, from 40 billion cubes in the last 15 years we have reduced consumption to 36. And we certainly will not pay the 47 billion dollars Gazprom demanded of Ukraine. For many years, gas monopoly has been a weapon in the hands of the Kremlin, which for years has blackmailed Ukraine and blackmailed our independence, endangering the statehood acquired by our ancestors. But the most destructive blow was not Putin, but the person who was then Prime Minister and who signed the scandalous Gazprom agreements. It's her. A gas fastener that cost every Ukrainian $700, with a new contract with Russia, which did not actually have a need. It was by these agreements that Ukraine was put on the whole, a complete energy dependency on Russia. Ukrainian citizens need to recall the main positions of the contract that have now been cancelled. First, “take, or pay, ” Ukraine has undertaken to buy 52 billion cubic metres of gas annually. By 2009, gas consumption had dropped to 33 billion without the right to re-export. But even though we didn't consume that gas, we had to pay for it. And because of the position of the contract, Ukraine lost more than $12 billion in gas transit in 2009 - 2016. Thus, Ukraine has already transferred $18 billion to the Russian Treasury, and another $12 billion has not been counted because of a gas contract under the conditions of transporting Russian gas through Ukraine. So this money was sent by Russia to finance its army, but we don't have enough money in Ukraine to get education, medicine, the whole budget sphere, Ukrainian roads, including the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which have been cut short as a result of the underfunding, and the military-industrial complex has been shut down. So for that reason, any excuse for winning Stockholm arbitration that this contract alone could have won in 2009, it reminds us that if Hitler hadn't attacked Poland, started World War II, you wouldn't have won fascism and won World War II. Dear Ukrainians, it is time for us to move away from populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u6	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u7	And it's time to start thinking about not your party ratings, not your personal interests, but the time to think about Ukraine, the people, the children and our future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u8	Thank you. Dunaev's giving the speech to Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! My report relates to the consequences of the conclusion of the Association Agreement with the European Union. The government during the ratification of the agreement, which was in 2014, during the ratification of the political, economic part, spoke of the victory, talked about the economic breakthrough, and the result would be the economic development in the country. But now we're in the yard in 2017, and what numbers do we have? If exports amounted to 63 billion dollars in 2013, they now accounted for 43 billion dollars. Why did this happen? Unfortunately, all the promises we heard in 2014 regarding the effective protection of the interests of a domestic producer remained only as promises. The association agreement actually closes European markets for Ukrainian goods. How does this show up? In particular, in the Association Agreement, and as everyone knows the devil is in detail, there are, so-called tariff quotas, they are provided in Appendix Two, Appendix One to the Association Agreement. This document is large enough, and I am far away from the idea that there will even be a dozen national deputies in this room who have been systematically familiar with this agreement. But what I'd like to say is that it's really inconvenient, especially for the Ukrainian manufacturer. It formally opens up the market for machine building, air construction, and agro-industrial production. But what does it really reveal? Engineering, aviation is not required there because technical regulations and regulations are not in line. What about the production of an agro-industrial complex? Ukraine could actually conquer a very important part of the European market, the quotas set there. Just think about it. 36 product positions are in effect. I'll just give you an example. For example, the main export positions are wheat, barley, corn. As far as wheat is concerned, it is only allowed to import 950,000 tons, with an export potential of 14 million. As far as the quotas are concerned, 95 euros per tonne is not profitable for the Ukrainian producer, and this product will not be profitable in advance. Corn -- 400,000 tons, export -- 14 million tons. Barley is 250,000 tons, export potential is 4 million tons. The quota for bird meat is 20,000 tons per year, and the average export potential is over 250,000 tons. What does this talk about? This suggests that these quotas, which are foreseen, do not actually open the EU market, it was just a declaration document. Regrettably, we have not made an effort to review the quotas, and the incompatibilities of the agreement have been demonstrated by consideration, particularly by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u10	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u11	Consideration of this Supreme Council draft proposal for increasing autonomous trade preferences. I have a question, and who, in 2014, when everyone was pianising this coalition to sign this agreement, who was prevented from having effective, effective negotiations on the implementation of the protectionism policy of the national producer and to increase the quotas mentioned. And that's why I think the signing of the agreement in this paper is really premature. I didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u12	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u13	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalski, Red City, National Control political party. I want to draw your attention to the so-called medical reform that the well-established coalition and most of them, together with the President of Ukraine, are in such a hurry to push forward. In fact, what is suggested in the government's redraft is that medical reform doesn't even come back. The proposed schemes for the output from the state budget control of 80 billion dollars and the creation of a new monopoly, uncontrollable to anyone, a corrupt body called the National Health Service in a version of the government and the Ministry of Health, appear to have surpassed all the plans of the predecessors, beginning with Yanuković and ending with Yatsenuk. But here I would like to pay attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council, and I would like to make an official appeal to the leadership of the Supreme Council for compliance with the regulatory procedures provided for in the current legislation for the introduction of the so-called reform bills. In a strange way, the Health Committee is completely removed from health - care reforms. We see, through manipulation and fraud, some health reform, realizing that health experts at the Health Committee, where there are doctors and lawyers, are committed to the Social Policy Committee. What do you call it? It's no different than cheating. Next. The proposed consideration tomorrow, which I've been honored by the faction sitting here on the left side of the rostrum, is made up of unknown supporters, perhaps the government or supporters of the majority, who are pushing for this so-called medical reform through grants of exchange and pear-actions. You will be personally responsible for the destruction of the people of Ukraine, which will take place if this antisocial, anti - Ukrainian, anti-national advertisement is pushed forward. You will be responsible because you are giving votes to the majority, and do not tell the stories of the people of Ukraine that you are in opposition. You're part of an oligarchic powdery majority now. Therefore, I insist on the regulatory rules for consideration by the anticorruption committee and on the conclusion of the anticorruption committee of the corruption of the proposed government medical reform. Because what is being offered there is all the way through the possibility of corruption and the lack of access to medical care. Please provide the National Deputies and I also have the opportunity to draw the conclusions of the GNEU, the conclusions of the Professional Committee, and to refer the review of medical reform to the Professional Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u14	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u15	Igor Šurma, Opposition Block. I will address the citizens of Ukraine and those MPs in the Hall who will try to discuss medical reform tomorrow. I remember creating a 300-voice coalition in this room, and the name of this coalition was "European Ukraine." In every speech you made, you made a coalition deal, and in every speech you said, "We're trying to integrate into a European family." This means that you are trying to live by the laws of countries that are part of the European Union. Please call me one country -- any one of you, three hundred, those who were in the coalition or who are not now -- which country lives outside the Constitution of their State? This is the Basic Law on which all legislation is based. To date, we have the President as the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution. He is obliged today, whether he likes it or not, to provide for the activity of article 49 of the Constitution. The Constitution states in this article: “In public and public health institutions, medical care is provided free of charge. The network can't shrink." Without the concept of a national health system to date, authorities are now trying to substantiate only a fraction — a change in the financing of health facilities. For Ukrainian citizens who are entitled today, right under the Constitution! – for free assistance, you're taking a step to take that right away from you. You will not have the right to free medicine because this law will eliminate such a right. When you're told that you're going to have to pay the costs, and you're going to be paid by the government, it's very cleverly written in this bill, "the state guarantees the freeness of political aid" (which is not regulated, by law, but only by orders), "extraordinary medicine" (the law that doesn't apply today by this authority) and the station will pay, but it doesn't guarantee full pay. And what percentages of this supplement are completely unknown. Today we have to say that this bill is not a reform, it's an attempt to translate everything into pay, contractual terms. The minister’s temporary responsibilities were well said: This is done once every 50 years. And when we talk about health care, about life and death, it is not clear why a sessional hall is trying to push the bill through its knee. Discuss this in the community, with the medical community, discuss the social protection of health workers, discuss with patients -- and then, please, bring them into the room for discussion. The opposition block for reform, but not that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u16	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Shevchenk. The Lubinian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u17	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people. Good afternoon, fellow MPs. You know, I'm surprised at the position of some of our state institutions on the environmental situation that has taken place in the Gitomirsk, Ravensk and Hmelnicki regions. For the second year now, industrial wastes that kill all living things have been found in the river of Gomorrah and the congregation. The Ponkin Paper Factory in the Hmelnicki district continues to dump unclean wastes in the water, and the authorities of the state that would stop it are quite responsive to this situation. As early as March 2016, participants at the round table "The Geoecological Situation in the River Svet", initiated by the Baranov City Council of the Žitomir Region, called on the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources to take effective measures towards an enterprise that threatens the environmental safety of the entire region. However, the factory was fined a small fine. The river in the district of Baranovka repeatedly recorded the mass loss of fish, ducks, and beavers. Criminal conduct has been discovered. Letters about the environmental situation on the rivers of Svet and Homo were sent to the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine, but unfortunately this did not produce the desired results. The condition of the plumbers continues to deteriorate. This spring, after another fall, the members of the Baran District Council, on the initiative of the deputies of the Ukrainian Union of Patriots, accepted the appeal to the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, requiring the cessation of the operations of the Ponynkovsky Paper Factory. By the beginning of May 2017, the river was once again littered with waste, and fish died again. Planes show a significant excess of harmful substances in water. The locals decided to take part in the protest. On June 6th, nearly a hundred civil activists and residents of the village of Głboczkok of Baranów district blocked the Novograd-Wolinski route to attract attention to river pollution. People are desperate because the water they are supposed to give poses a threat not only to the environment but also to their health. We will not stop until the problem is resolved. On behalf of the inhabitants of Žitomirščina, Rivenščina and Hmělničina, the participants of the Picette, who are now near the Cabinet of Ministers, demand: first, to stop the activity of the Poninkov Paper Factory until the full operation of the clean-up facilities is restored; second, to punish those responsible for the damage done to the environment as a result of the dumping of unclean wastes. And third, at the legislative level, increase the responsibility for water pollution. Thirdly, this is a question that the Ukrainian Union of Patriots may have asked today, or perhaps tomorrow, to register a bill where. The bill to amend the Criminal Code on the increase, the substantial increase in fines, and the withdrawal of the will for the repeated discharge of unclean waters.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u18	Please, 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u19	I appeal to the Prime Minister to urgently undertake a comprehensive audit of this enterprise, which includes national deputies, the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Environment, as well as residents and residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u20	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Michael Gavriluk. National MP Yuri Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u21	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainian citizens, distinguished colleagues! We are approaching a sad date — 242 years from the destruction of the Zaporozhye Sichi and the destruction of the Parisian freeway. It was June 10th. And then began the continuous colonization of our country, my country. It was found in different iposas. Starting with the destruction of intelligence in 1917, what was quite brilliant. When the flower of the nation was destroyed. The best were destroyed. 1932-1933, World War II. You know, but it's scary when we got independence. The Fifth Column, which was brought up by colonizers, began to wage war against an independent Ukraine. And this war has come to light everywhere, starting with the gas contracts that the Stockholm Court has evaluated, and ending with the puffosomal performance of the Fifth Column right now in this rostrum! Where were you when you destroyed the patriots of Donetsk and Luhansk? Why didn't you yell and yell at the Council when Bezler and Gorkin's fighters killed patriots in Donetsk? I'm now addressing the sober, I'm stressing, sober and patriotic people who are sitting on this council. The sooner we get rid of what's called the Fifth Column, what's called the "enemy of Ukraine," which on all fronts will never stop and stop the moments of the destruction of Ukraine. For them, Ukraine is nothing; for them, Ukraine is a polygon. And that's why I'm reminding those who forgot that after the gas agreements, there were the Kharkiv treaties that opened the way for the war to start on Donbassa, so that we could have the Crimea cut off. And the responsibility lies with the people sitting in this room. And that's why I'm still addressing us, all the patriotic deputies, we have a chance, we have a chance, we have a chance, not to talk, but to bring the real thing to fruition and to bring it to an end, as the People's Front does. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u22	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oksana Korchinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u23	Praise Jesus Christ! I didn't want to talk about medical reform, but since I saw a speech that was written under the handwriting of the National MP Musia and the National MP from Mr. Shurma's Opposition Block, And the only drugs when you have cancer are chemotherapy. And chemotherapy at this point, the whole world is being treated first of all, it's our real reforms, not simulations, it's reforms. And that's why I'm surprised when the former minister after the revolution, after all, and the Opposition Block, is in the same place. I'm sorry. Maybe we didn't really work out. But I want to talk about the front now. I want to remind the people's deputies that there's a war going on, that we have 763 wounded guys this year, that we don't have enough basic things on the front line right now. We don't have enough wood on the front to build defenses to protect our lives. We don't have enough bags on the front to put the sand to sleep and build defenses. We don't have very few new vehicles. We are still not like the army of the 21st century. I have a lot of questions like the People's Deputy and how do you represent the head of the Ukrainian Civil and Military Headquarters to organizations like Ucroborprom, where are our billions? Why can't we see them on the front? Why is it that the new technology and the new weapon that we see as a hammer are regularly hidden from us that it is fatal? We have losses in the use of hammers. And that's known to everyone on the front, so somehow we don't discuss it at the National Security Committee. Please consider this a request. Why do volunteers still go to the front every day to help with drones and drones? Why do we miss the video camera on the front? Why do we lack military weapons and sanitation? I have a lot of questions to ask the General Staff why so far. Last week, this Sunday, I was once again a hiker for the new ATO, who had never been to ATO. When I have to go one more time, show you what ATO is.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u24	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u25	Because our speaker did not respond to 112 MPs and does not announce every Tuesday a minute of silence for those heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u26	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u27	I want to remind the MPs that 100 fighters were killed this year, 98 of them are the Armed Forces of Ukraine and 2 are volunteers. And that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u28	Please get up. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u29	Thank you. This hundredth kingdom of the heavens.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u30	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of Deputy Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u31	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, we are here behind our own battalions, behind the rallies that are under Parliament, sometimes we forget about the everyday things that are happening to us every day. We all remember that Midan was the one who had no sense of justice, and I want to remind everyone that it was Yanukovich who was the embodiment of corruption and the injustice that was in the state. To date, I would like to highlight the effective work done by members of the Personal Security Department in the Volin area of law enforcement. It is because of them that bribes have been detained during the last period, that is, police have all their appearances leading them to believe that they are able to cleanse themselves of those who have been enrolled in their ranks. But unfortunately, with the help of the so-called prosecutor's office, which is obliged to investigate these cases, these cases are silently hidden in us. And that's why my speech today is about this very issue, and these problems that I have on Volina. I want to pay attention to criminal cases and this will be my appeal from the rostrum of Parliament for 420170300000042, 420170300000072 and 4201700000000176. These are criminal cases committed against law enforcement officials who took bribes. But I also point out that they all violated articles 368 in part three, and then some of them, especially with the latest figures 72, were reclassified to be an article that enunciates the participation and participation of a citizen, an applicant as a victim. So here's a little example, the bribe case is getting regular payments of $200, the last bribes are fixed on video, the last premium is $2,000, and the person is fined $20,000. Dear colleagues, this is the abuse of the justice system, this is the abuse of the cleansing of the ranks of the bribers. So I'm paying attention to Mr. Kirichuk's attorney in Volin district, and I'm referring to the negative work and the contractors of Detective Antonyuk, who was the trial director of these last cases, and he was the one who agreed to the so-called party agreement. I would also like to ask Mr. Koval, head of the Department of Internal Security, to point out his employees on the Wall, who are tracking bribes that are in the ranks of the police for days and nights. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u32	Thank you. Now, there will be two more speeches, and I invite you to the speech of National Deputy Nestor Schufrich, and then there will be a speech from "The Fatherland" by Sergey Sobolev, and then there will be two replicas and a break from two factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Your Honor Chairman! Today, I listened very carefully to the speeches of my fellow Ukrainian national deputies, and I enjoyed the tour of history. But let's call the facts what they really were. Catherine II, the Empress of Russia, entered into a contract with the Cossacks and entrusted them with the protection of the borders. And that's true. Along with the captivated Cossacks, the Russian army seized the Crimean Peninsula and destroyed Crimean Tatarry. It's also true, it's a historical fact. But we also had our relationship with the Crimean Tatars when we signed alliances for the war with Poland. That's also a fact. But it's a story. Today, we need to respect it as our glorious history of our Slovenian nations, which together have passed a very difficult course of independence. Today, we look for whatever unites us, and we are obliged to find it. And you know, I'm mentioning a vote on the conflict around Tuzla Island. Four hundred and eighty - eight deputies of different views voted in this room, and they joined together. And then Kuchma flew straight out of Brazil and settled this conflict on demand, including the Ukrainian Parliament. And the relationship in Parliament was, believe me, even hotter than it is now. The wall went to the wall, but that question brought us together. Today we are in pain for the dead. I want to remind you that in 2014, after we honored the fallen Celestials, the first person to stand up for this Hall was an activist of Liberty. But the next day we celebrated the moment of silence of the dead in Kharkiv by an activist of the Party of Regions. What is a Party of Regions? The group of regions is not Yanukovic, but ten million people who have voted in favour of their principles for ten years. And now I'm standing on this stand and standing up for their principles. I have many questions to Janukovich, but today, make sure that people live like that criminal authority, that they have such incomes and tariffs, and then you will probably have the right to ask a lot of questions. Today, I urge all of us to unite around, perhaps one of the goals of unity, peace. And the guarantee of this peace, I think, in constitutional reform. We need to give real rights to all regions to take power from one person and perhaps trust him in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u34	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u35	Everyone's talking about giving power to the people. So do not be afraid of your own people, give authority to the people, and marry the tyrants and those who are at war.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u36	Thank you. Please welcome Sergey Soboljeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the European Commission's unique decision, which in 2012 recognized the antimonopoly standard of "take or pay", has actually brought Ukraine and the NAC Naftogaz state company, which has become 18 European companies, which, thanks to this decision of the European Commission and the decision of the Stockholm Arbitration, abolished this principle. But today we cannot help but mention the key two dates — January 2006 — when a unique contract was cancelled that fixed the price of 50 dollars per thousand cubic metres. And it was with President Yushchenka and Prime Minister Yehanur that this contract ceased to work, even though it was due to take effect until 2009. Not to mention the second date, at the end of 2008, when President Yushchenko, in violation of his mandate as President of Ukraine, calls back the head of NAC Naftogaz Dubina from signing a deal that was agreed at $232, the lowest price in the European Union. And only then did the Russian Federation take an unprecedented step and shut down gas for Ukraine and the European Union for two weeks. Where were the callers who were sitting in high offices and didn't make a penny to make it possible to sign contracts that enabled the country to survive these 10 years when the price of gas -- both Norwegian and Russian -- today amounts to less than $160 per thousand cubic meters. But the question is, why is Ukraine buying this gas, which is the gas of the Russian Federation, not 160 dollars, but 230, 236? Because today this overpayment lies in the pockets of those who own firms that buy this contract. That's why the Fatherland faction thinks that we need to conduct two key investigations, how two contracts were broken -- four and eight years old, and how the Kharkiv agreements were signed, which continued to form the Russian fleet for 25 years, which allowed Crimea and Sevastopol to continue to be annexed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u38	Thank you. And now there's two lines. Powder, National Deputy Shurm first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u39	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. We have a lot of people trying to introduce American values. I'm going to allow myself a quote from American writer Mark Twain: "Never argue with idiots, because you're going to go down to their level where they're going to strangle you with their experience." I'm not going to argue with whoever called me, my family, but I want to say one thing: "The Opposition Block" supports reform when the laws comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, when these laws protect the defenseless ranks of the population of the number of pensioners who are 14 million and want to be deprived of their right to free medicine, a law that protects health workers. And then I'd like to ask the leader of Mr. Laszko's Radical Couple. He's always talking about social protection. What his party member says, the first deputy by quota, is referring to the party. You explain, or this is the position of the party, and what it has to do with today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u41	I would like to draw this lady’s attention, who is the half-legitarian deputy head of the Health Committee, because the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljashko, has filed for the release of this person, who is unprofessional, who works with the international pharmaceutical mafia, along with the Ministry of Health. Olezh Valeriovich, while you will tolerate discredit by such gentlemen of the normal Radical Party, which conducts the right policy because you did not vote in favour of the so-called medical pseudoreform? And here is a lady who is voting for the destruction of the Ukrainians. Is this the position of the Radical Party: to destroy the Ukrainians, as this lady suggests?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u42	The last line is Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction does not support government bills on so-called medical reform for one reason: that pension reform, the health reform proposed by today's authorities, is pursuing a single goal: to reduce the number of people who are entitled to a pension, to reduce the number of Ukrainians who have access to health care. It's not reform, it's the economy of the state budget at the expense of the Ukrainians. According to our firm belief, medical reform should pursue one goal: accessibility and quality of health care. When the authorities shut down the hospital under the so-called medical reform, it reduces the number of workers in order to save the budget, our team does not support this so-called reform. And we offer an alternative to the pension and medical reform offered by the government. This is the position of our party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u44	Colleagues, speaking time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. Please, one minute. We will vote in favour of a reduced procedure. And I would like to point out to you that on Wednesday we traditionally have ratification issues, issues that unite the hall. And we move on to the first draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in the protection and sustainable development of the Dniester River Basin (No. 0146). And, colleagues, in order to be able to consider our international agreements and ratifications, the Committee and the rapporteurs are asking the Supreme Council Halls to consider them for a reduced procedure. And I'm asking all my fellow members of the National Deputies to support this constructive proposal from the Ministry. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in the protection and continuous development of the Dniester River Basin (0146) under a reduced procedure. Please give discipline and conscientious support to this initiative. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, please support. [[10:50:21]] For-138 Not everyone took responsibility for the vote, so I ask everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. I repeat my proposal to review draft Law 0146 by summary procedure, and I ask you all to support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:51:08]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u45	Good afternoon, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies. Your attention is given to the proposed draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in the protection and sustainable development of the Dniester River Basin. A project developed by the Ministry of Natural Resources Ecology aimed at ratifying the treaty signed on November 29, 2012 in Rome during the Sixth Session of the Council of the Parties to the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses of International Lakes. The objective of the treaty is to strengthen cooperation with the Republic of Moldova in the areas of protection and sustainable development. providing continuous development of the Dniester River Basin. This treaty in the event of ratification, and I am convinced of this holiday, will be the first international pool contract in European and post-Radians space to develop partnerships between States for the implementation of integrated management of trans-border river basin water resources as an important component of sustainable development. The implementation of the treaty should ensure a gradual reduction in the pollution of surface and groundwaters in the Dniester River Basin, an improvement in the health of the population in the Dniester River Basin area, and use of water from that river, fair distribution and management of water resources between countries, the provision and restoration of water ecosystems and protected areas. The bill is accepted without notice by the ministries that touch on the implementation of this agreement. Ratification will help ensure that our international obligations are met within the framework of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. This ratification treaty awaits the Moldovan side, our colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, colleagues, support the ratification of the treaty that I spoke about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u48	Thank you. The committee’s deputy head in foreign affairs, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u49	Good afternoon, dear friends! We need a bill. Ratification required. The committee agreed at the meeting yesterday. There are no comments. The main scientific and scientific management has agreed to do the same. So I ask you to join forces and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Please record: two, two, against the bill. Please. Kisse Anton Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u51	I give the floor to my colleague, Yatzenko Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u52	Dear friends! It's become such a tradition, unfortunately, that we never make decisions on Wednesday, very rarely that have results. So I would very much like this law, which is not political and normal, and it brings us closer to the European world standards of ecology, so that we can now support it to all the halls. Let's still show that the Council not only works on Tuesdays and Thursdays, but on Wednesdays can work as well. Let's support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u53	Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u54	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. It's a very important bill. So I urge my colleagues to gather, to vote in favour. And the People's Front will vote for all environmental laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Shurma Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u56	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'll give you a proposal from the Opposition Block regarding the ratification of international agreements. We are well aware that the image of Ukraine is shaped by how the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes decisions regardless of factions. We are well aware that the positive attitude of Ukraine’s cooperation also depends on how it is viewed internationally. But I would like to remind everyone in the audience and those who listen to us, always on Wednesday, that day was set aside for discussion and adoption of the draft laws that were initiated by the opposition forces. It was called "The Day of Opposition." The Opposition Block has put forward dozens of bills that provide social protection for people and those who live in the territory of Ukraine and those who live in the temporarily occupied territory. But unfortunately, there are no such possibilities for today’s introduction and consideration. Moreover, the Opposition Block has already launched a series of initiatives on halting international drugs in international organizations that have failed to date. There's no such thing. We have made this decision: no matter what the draft of Bill 0146 between the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine deserves support, and we support, in principle, everything it says, we refuse to vote for all ratifications today, and we will do so until the Day of Opposition is announced, when the initiatives presented by the Opposition Block can be considered. This is our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u57	Melniczuk gives the word to Doubbenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, my colleague Ivan Melniczuk has signed up against the support of this ratification, and I understand it because he thinks there is no comprehensive approach to how we should develop the constant development of the Dniester River and all of this pool. I think we can develop this topic in the right constructive direction, namely, we have a clear focus in government, and then we have two problems in this complex topic. The first topic is the construction of 6 mini-GES, which are planned in the government programme by 2020. I think it's wrong that the initial work, without consulting communities on the ground without consulting representatives of self-government agencies, is going to solve such a serious problem. And we see what is the firm position of not accepting the construction of these mini-GAES on the Dniester River. I think that both colleagues in Moldova and at the bottom of the Dniester don't support this topic, and we in the government need to change this position. The second part of the subject is called the Dniestrovo Canyon. I, along with my colleague Matvienka, developed a program called the Dniester Canyon. I'm glad there's, in principle, support in government, but it's being delayed. I think if we find understanding not only at the level of government, but here, in the Supreme Council, with representative bodies on the ground, we can then take fairly seriously the constant development of Dniestrowski throughout the pool and including the Dniestrów Canyon, which is very important for the development of tourism, for the development and launching of interesting new businesses in places, as well as new jobs and for the replenishment of the budgets of self-government bodies. So I propose to support ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u59	All of it. Yeah. Thank you. Colleagues, two more are the Radical Party and the will of the people. Come on. Please, Vladimir Litwin. Two minutes Litwin, two minutes Radical Party. Please. Aah! Yes. And from "self-help" the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u60	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Well, it is clear that the Cabinet of Ministers must fulfill the commitments that were made in 2012. But I do have a question, and when will the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry fulfill their obligations to the people living in the Zitomir region in connection with the catastrophic pollution of the Rivers of Gomorrah and the West? Mr. Secretary, how much can I ask you? As much as you can write letters and MPs, the reaction is zero. The local authorities, what do they do about it? They're monitoring, they're out of options. But the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, think about it, honourable colleagues, can't find the authority for one enterprise, it's the Poninkow paper and paper combination. You see, the owner is very high, because things are broken, then they're taken from the area, they're taken from the area, they're taken from Kiev, they're moved back to other areas, and the thing continues to stay in the same place, people can't live. We fulfill our obligations to Moldova, and we do not do so in front of our own people! I'm so sure this people don't care. I'm addressing the minister, and I ask you today, people, activists, who represent different political forces, the public, you accept them, please, and look at them, and say that eventually they'll be done, except for discounts that don't give anything. Or they will bring water and ask the entire Cabinet of Ministers to drink the water that people drink. You can't keep your mouth shut! How long can this fornication take place?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u61	Thank you. I'm sorry, I haven't done Self-Help yet, please. A shepherd from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u62	Self - Help Association, Taras Shepherd, Ternopil I really want to assure the Self-Help faction that we will support the ratification of this agreement. And we really want to help the Ministry of Ecology today in what they are doing today in the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on protecting, in fact, the Dniester River Basin. Because unfortunately, without consulting the Parliament, unfortunately without consulting the population living today in the Dniester River Basin, in the nearby settlements, the Cabinet of Ministers took on a commitment and an allocation of huge sums for the construction of the GES cascade at the same time that, in fact, today there are many serious problems on the Dniester River that are then being passed on to our neighbors. And that's why today's ratification of this agreement is the country's taking on these environmental standards that we need to meet today. And I'm convinced that the existence of this agreement will, to some extent, make it impossible to further implement the government's plan to submerge the population and to destroy the environmental system around the Dniester. Because today, in the presence of various environmental organizations that are in the Ternopilsky, Johno-Frankivsky, Chernivsky, Hmelnitsk oblasts, there are requests, concerns, requests from our neighbours of Moldova for the inadmissibility of building the Dniester with cascades of different GES or GAES. So today we call on the entire Parliamentary Hall to support this ratification and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u63	Colleagues, we're about to make our final speech. In two minutes, we'll move on to making our decision. So I ask you to invite all the national deputies and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and the heads of the factions. Now, the closing statement from the Radical Party will be Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u64	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you the good news, last week I was lucky to be in the south of our home country, Odessa, Hersonsky, Mikolai district, beautiful land, wonderful people, sunny land. But the problem is that in the south of Ukraine, as in Ukraine, people do not have jobs. Mikolai and Herson once had the glory of the city of ships. These were the most powerful shipbuilding enterprises that built ships not only for the Soviet Union but for the whole world. Tens of thousands of people worked in the shipbuilding industry, and today there are only one. I was lucky enough to meet a team of the Nibulon Shipbuilding Plant, which was restored from the former abandoned sites in the same place. The investor has invested $80 million, hundreds of jobs created, and 9,000 people of Mikolayev are in line to get a job at this factory. And I want to give you an example of this enterprise to imitate everyone in the country, invest and create jobs. But an investor does this in spite of state policy, despite even the intentions that are in parliament today to enact such laws to bring ships under offshore flags here into Ukraine instead of restoring their own shipbuilding industry and shipping on Dniper. The Lord has given us 8,000 miles of waterways. We have millions of tons of cargo transported by roads, in which we then invest billions in construction. The restoration of shipbuilding, the restoration of Dniper navigation, will take a large portion of the cargo from the road to the water. And so we will create thousands and thousands of jobs and restore the glory of Herson and Nicholas as a city of ships. The radical party is working hard on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u65	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall, please, colleagues. Whoever's in bed, please take your jobs. One more minute, there was a request to the minister, please, Ostap Semerak. And please take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u66	Respectful colleagues, a very important subject, and the violent discussion, confirm that the problem of environmental protection and conservation of natural resources must be addressed together. I thank Vladimir Litvina, who raised the subject of the case and Gomorrah, and I would like to feel the support of Vladimir Mikhailovich as a deputy elected by Žitomirščina in support of the work. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I remind you that as a result of decentralization, the Ukrainian Parliament has deprived the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of territorial organizations. What is more, it is, unfortunately or happily, the responsibility of the territorial communities. But when reporting to you and to Parliament for the work we have done over the last two years, it must say that the polluters have been installed. There, these two rivers have a permanent position of hops and animal inspection. But today we've also discussed this problem with the People's Front and Self-Help deputies and agreed that together we're going to set up a district commission working to eliminate the extraordinary situation at last, to invite MPs, and hopefully you'll join us as a deputy from Lifetime to the work of this commission, also with representatives of the environmental inspection. And, dear colleagues, we need to understand that those powers that have local self - control should be exercised. We have to help them, and we are open to it. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Ukrainian Parliament to withdraw from its decision in December which the Ukrainian Parliament introduced a moratorium on environmental checks throughout Ukraine in 2017. I hope the People's Will Group will also support the abolition of this moratorium. So, of course, we work with the territorial community. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will meet you today and with those who have come, and I will invite you to this conversation because getting out of this situation is a responsibility and a need not only for the inhabitants but also for other people who use water in the river. In the Dnipro River Basin. Thank you for your support and thank you for keeping an eye on the problem. And hopefully you'll support the ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u67	Thank you. Thank you. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in the protection and continuous development of the Dniester River Basin (No. 0146). The committee's proposal is to adopt a draft law as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. [[11:10:15]] For 227 The law is passed. The next law is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Cooperation in Education and Science (0147). Montenegro has become a NATO member. We need to have a closer relationship with them. Hopefully, Ukraine will be next. I ask you to support the proposal and the consideration of the short-term ratification. Please vote, please support 0147, summary procedure. Vote. [[11:11:05]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Greb Roman Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! On December 9, 2011, a cooperation agreement was signed in Podgorica between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in education and science. The agreement strengthens the desire of treaty parties to develop, strengthen cooperation in the fields of education and science of social interest. The adoption of a law is necessary to establish the validity of the stated covenant. This will contribute to the development of bilateral relations on a stable long-term basis, to the improvement of the legal and regulatory framework between our countries. Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in Education and Science was developed in accordance with section "e" of section 2 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. The implementation of the provisions of the above - mentioned agreement does not provide for additional funding from the State budget. Instead, the implementation of the agreement will contribute to the expansion of direct links between the higher educational institutions of both countries, the development of various forms of mutually beneficial cooperation between the higher educational institutions of Ukraine and Montenegro, the provision of study and teaching of Ukrainian in Montenegro, and the study of Montenegrin in Ukraine, the participation of scientists from both countries in conferences, seminars, round tables, and so on. Ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on co-operation in education and science will open new prospects for cooperation in the educational and scientific fields of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u69	Thank you. I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on foreign affairs to report to Svetlana Petrovna. Please, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on June 6th reviewed the relevant bill and supported it unanimously. The purpose of this law is to deepen international cooperation between Ukraine and Montenegro. And that, including scientific exchanges between our countries, will allow exchange between students. This will increase cooperation in the scientific field, in the academic field. In particular, I would like to point out that the implementation of the provisions of the above-mentioned agreement does not provide for additional funding from the State budget, as exchange of students will be carried out in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 26 February 1993 on the training of foreign citizens in Ukraine. Please support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Fellows, I have a question for you. We have five ratifications. I'm looking at times, it's kind of complicated. Wouldn't there be any objection in the hall if we were speaking not for two minutes, but for one minute, so that we could go through these ratifications? Excuse me? [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. One minute at a time, right? Colleagues, let me put it to a vote. If there's room agreement so we can work harder. Colleagues, I'm asking the hall to vote so that the presentations in the discussion are not for two minutes, but one minute so that we can go through all the ratifications. Colleagues, I ask you to support the initiative so that during the consideration of the ratification block there will be one minute, not two. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:15:46]] For-154 Thank you. 154, no decision taken. Let's move on to the discussion. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. This Regulation shall enter Cream, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this motion for a ruling. It opens up not only great opportunities for Ukraine in scientific cooperation with Montenegro, but it opens up huge educational spaces for Ukrainian science, for young brilliant scientists, for the discovery of international cooperation, for the development of scientific and technical potential and many other things that are built for Ukrainian education and science in the long run. Please be supportive. People's Front votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u73	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u74	Sobolje, Fatherland. I would like to welcome Montenegro with an important event. This small but proud country has been able to take the hardest path and become a full-fledged member of NATO, unlike Ukraine, which is still in the middle of a debate, whether it is necessary or not. But on the part of the economic situation signed by this international agreement, in my view, it will be a serious and substantial support for this forpost in the Balkans, which will allow Ukrainian interests to be represented with dignity on the Balkan Peninsula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u75	Thank you. I would also like to suggest that tomorrow we consider the changes to the Law of Foreign and Internal Policy, where we would clearly define Ukraine's NATO orientation. Tomorrow we'll be able to regulate legislation. Colleagues, this is the closing act, so I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. And I give the floor to Sažko Sergey Mikolayovich. Sažko Sergei Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u76	I give the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u77	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. At the faction meeting today, we were looking at a bill of agreement between the Cabinet and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in education and science. This agreement reveals the principles of cooperation, establishes the possibility that they are, young scientists, creating places for exchange of students, for them a scholarship. In short, it's a good document for cooperation. We have decided to maintain this covenant, and we support it. But today we will not vote in favour of ratifying this agreement for one reason: there is an ousted day of opposition in the work of Parliament. And we don't have the opportunity to look at these legislative initiatives today, especially those relating to both social protection and economic development. Therefore, we demand that we consider the leadership of the Supreme Council of the proposal to establish a day of opposition where these issues will be considered. And as long as we do not get that right, we will not accept ratifications, regardless of the prestige of Ukraine. I want everyone to understand why we're doing this. We have another opportunity to reach out and achieve our right of opposition. And that's why we're trying to draw the attention of the international community, to which we're so drawn, including the European Ukraine Coalition, and they want to live by those laws. And there the rights of opposition are clearly prescribed. We demand a day of opposition where our bills will be considered, and then we'll go to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u78	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And, colleagues, I'm in five each, in two minutes I'm telling you that there's going to be a vote. But sometimes, in my eyes, MPs speak in a demonstration and do not vote in a vote. And this is disrespect for the community that was preparing the law, and most of all it's disrespect for Ukraine and for the Ukrainians. Now we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in Education and Science, number 0147, on the proposal of the Committee as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, a total of 0147. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:21:06]] For 213 I'll make an offer to come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is, if anyone thinks there's something from the faction of education and science, Montenegro, it's a question of either coalition, or opposition, it's in very deep, incomprehensible international processes. Please, colleagues! I'll be right back. You don't have to perform. I'll be back in a minute. Proposal to return to the draft Law (0147). And I'm asking everyone to focus. All European forces, all those who believe that Ukraine needs cooperation with Montenegro, those who consider themselves patriots, I am sure they will vote. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in Education and Science (0147). I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting for the return. Colleagues, we vote carefully and responsibly. Please be supportive. Vote! [[11:22:47]] For 228 We're back. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Cooperation in Education and Science (0147) as a whole. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote! Every voice matters. Please vote, please support. [[11:23:23]] For 230 The law is passed. Let's move on to the next draft of the Ratification Act. I'm sorry, there's a statement coming in from two factions of Self-Help and the Radical Party for a break, but they're ready to change the break for the performance. And so, colleagues, please don't break up. And is there a word for it, to whom? Yegor Sobolev. Please, three minutes, Egor Sobolev. And then there'll be another ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u79	We would like to draw everyone's attention to how the Supreme Court of Ukraine is now arriving. When the Constitution was rewritten last year in this room for the proposal of the President of Ukraine, everyone was told that there would be a new Supreme Court and an Anti-Corruption Court. What the Supreme Court will be like, everyone can now see, by including a broadcast, how the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges responds to public activists, the Public Council of Virtue, terrible facts in the biography of today's candidates to the Supreme Court. He spits, and that's how the High Qualifications Commission of Judges reacts. I just want to read a few last examples. Alexei Vasilovich Brinsev, now the judge of the Kharkiv County Economic Court. His father works as a judge of the Constitutional Court, giving dictatorial powers to Yanukovich. Lots of property in the declaration, four apartments in Kharkiv. In 2014 - 2016, I crossed the border more than 20 times with the Russian Federation. A wonderful man - the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges decides - let him work as a judge of the Supreme Court. Other examples. Zoldnik's Alexander Sergiyovich, now Judge of the Odessa Court of Appeal. Repeatedly, he forbade peaceful meetings, including during Eromaydan. I didn't let the Odessys gather to support democracy, to support the protection of human rights. These people will now be recruited into the new Supreme Court, which, of course, will be new only by name. These are very bad games. Lying to people, lying to parliament, lying to everyone can be done, but not for long. I'm not talking about the Anti-Corruption Court anymore. The bill, filed on February 1, this year, was not put to the vote, despite repeated appeals both to the Committee of Legal Policy and to the Speaker of Parliament. What's more, the deputy from Peter Prashenko's Block is now proposing that the idea of creating an Anti-Corruption Court be abolished. He suggests calling ordinary, which means that most corrupt judges are anti-corruption judges, that each court appoint such a group and let them cut the money further. Once again, unless a court is established in this country, including through this House, there will be no alternative to a new rebellion against injustice, against deception, and against the destruction of their rights. Let us not make this mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u80	Colleagues, the next law on ratification is the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Aid (number 0148). And, colleagues, I ask for your support. Colleagues, I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking you to break up. Girls! Help me. Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'd like you to come to your corners. And I ask everyone to prepare for the decision. And I'm voting on a motion for a review of the draft Law on Ratification (0148) under a reduced procedure. And please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:28:10]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Justice Minister of Petuhov Sergey Igorevich. Mr. Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u81	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed in Bill 0148 on the ratification of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance. What is the essence of this covenant? It will allow Ukrainians to submit through the Ministry of Justice the applications and documents necessary to obtain free legal aid in the 32 countries of Europe that have already ratified the agreement. Under the principle of reciprocity, Ukraine will also make such applications for free legal assistance to citizens of Ukraine. This agreement took effect back in 1977, but so far we have not been able to ratify it. Why? Because, in fact, until last year, there was no free legal aid in civil commercial and administrative matters in Ukraine. During 2015-2016, the Ministry of Justice opened more than 50. 500, I apologize, the centres and legal aid offices that provide such free legal assistance to Ukrainians in matters relating to each of us, housing, land, inheritance, family disputes, social benefits. We have received over 500,000 appeals on such matters, so the actual presence of this system has allowed us and allowed us to ratify this agreement and to extend the possibility of receiving free legal aid to our citizens not only in Ukraine, but also in 32 countries in Europe that have already ratified this agreement. Please support this bill and provide a truly effective opportunity for Ukrainians to receive free legal aid in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u82	Thank you. And I invite the head of the committee’s subcommittee in the foreign affairs of Arjev Vladimir Igorevich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to respond, however, on behalf of the Peter Prashenko Block, in a replica of what was just said that one of the members of the BPP has passed a bill to abolish the anti-corruption court. I can tell you that there are a lot of different people at Peter Prashenko's Block, even those who hate Peter Prashenko, but they don't want to leave the Peter Prashenko Block on their own, so we have a democracy. But the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block" is to create an anti-corruption court and it's going to be a faction to support. Now, what about the bill? Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on June 6, 2017, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance. This bill is aimed at implementing the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance in order to remove economic barriers that make it difficult to access justice and to simplify the enjoyment of their rights by socially vulnerable groups of participating States. According to an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Paul Petrenko, the implementation of the provisions of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance will not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Ratification by Ukraine of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance will create the necessary legal basis for improving cooperation in the area of legal assistance in civil, commercial or administrative matters between Ukraine and the member states of the Council of Europe, which are parties to the Agreement and will enable citizens of Ukraine to access the treaty mechanism, which, with a view to ensuring the protection of the rights of all participating States, makes it possible for citizens of any kind.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u84	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u85	The parties to the agreement to apply for free legal aid in the territory of another State party to the agreement. I ask you to support and enter the hall so that we can successfully ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u86	Please record: two in, two in. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Oksani Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u88	The Peter Dustenk bloc supports the ratification of this agreement. This international instrument is primarily important for ordinary citizens, because within the signatory countries, 32 of the Council of Europe, economic barriers that have prevented them from gaining access to justice have been removed. Having approved this decision will make it easier and cheaper for Ukrainians to uphold legal rights before the courts of the parties to the agreement. In fact, the treaty has a mechanism from the theory of Ukraine to seek legal aid in civil, commercial or administrative matters in any of the contracting parties. This ratification opens up the opportunity for Ukrainians to defend their rights in other countries, under different conditions. Therefore, ratification is supported and we believe that this is very important during the period of active European integration. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction calls on all of its fellow Members of Parliament to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u89	Captain Olena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u90	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Indeed, the ratification of this agreement allows us to become equal and protect our citizens not only in Ukraine with free legal aid but today in 32 countries that are members of the Council of Europe. The key here is actually that this is a question that is guaranteed from the point of view and the principle of free. Because, as we know, if we compare legal aid and the cost of this legal aid, for example, in Ukraine and in the same France, Germany, Belgium, other countries, it is very serious and expensive. And this convention, it actually predicts that countries among themselves have agreed that the free legal aid mechanism, which is in each of these countries, including those that I listed, can be applied to citizens of this country as well as to Ukrainian citizens who will apply with the appropriate form of application. Here, of course, it will be very important for the Ministry of Justice to carry out some kind of free assistance system in Ukraine, to carry out an explanatory work on how people can use this mechanism. Because if you read the text of the covenant, it does not directly imply specific requirements, the form of the statement, and so on. So I would very much ask and ask the Ministry of Justice to take due control and conduct for our population, for Ukrainian citizens, the explanatory work involved in this new mechanism, the new guarantee that comes with the ratification of this convention. We'll be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u91	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u92	The will of the people will support this agreement. This is essential for our citizens to do so. especially to the few protected species that would really receive this help. But I am more concerned about the small-scale sections of the population of Ukrainians who live in Ukraine, and how they will be protected from our judicial, prosecutorial and other law enforcement agencies. Because banks and raids, because in order to go to court, there are huge amounts of money that our citizens don't have, they don't even have enough money to survive, and I'm not talking about fighting big commercial structures in the form of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the criminal organization, the prosecutor's office, the criminal courts, and so on. And this also stumbles the Justice Department in the form of a commission that has actually soiled corruption, and it marks all the costs that come from the raids. A disgrace to the Ministry of Justice and their commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u93	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. Now the word is Moses Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u94	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will, of course, support this bill and consider this ratification important. But in the context of legal aid, I would like to talk about the pharisaic that has been happening in this room in the last two weeks. This is about choosing the new Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's be honest with each other that there's a group in the room that wants to see a candidate for this post a person who doesn't put up a valid Human Rights Commissioner, Mrs. Valeria Lutkowski. I treated her very well as a person, and she helped me. But, dear colleagues, if you want to put Valeria up as a candidate, put it out, do it, get the signatures, say it, but don't do the circus, don't blame the Head of Parliament for tearing down the vote, because NAMC has invented against all three candidates who have been sent by parliament, made up some accusations, delayed the test. The Human Rights Committee now claims to announce a new competition. Do you know what this is about? That in the committee and in the NAZK people have a bearing on the same political power in this room. And the pharisaic thing is to blame Arthur Gerasim as the leader of this political force in cooperation with the terrorists, then apologize for the prayer breakfast, and then come out again yesterday, and how a Pharisee from this rostrum accuses her of cooperating with the terrorists. Let us put an end to the Pharisee and protect human rights!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u95	We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone. I'm another, yeah, one minute from the Shurm faction. I. Please come into the hall. Storm, one minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u96	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. We believe that the Act on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance needs to be ratified. This is a faction position, because the goal is to remove economic barriers that make access to justice more difficult and to simplify the realization of their rights to socially vulnerable groups of participating States. However, we will not vote, faction, because we are deprived of the right to defend our legislative initiatives. We demand that the agenda of the day be set aside for the opposition, where we can consider our legislative initiatives, which protect socially vulnerable groups of people living both in Ukraine and in temporarily occupied territories. Our bills that relate to the development of the economy that is now stagnating. As long as we as an opposition have no civil rights, what is done in European states, defend our rights, we will not vote in ratifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u97	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Don't leave the hall. There's only one thing I'm worried about tomorrow's enlightenment -- and tomorrow I wasn't very much involved in voting your faction for reasons unknown to the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance (0148) proposed by the Committee as a whole. Now, there's a vote going on, and I'm going to remind those deputies on the right. Dear colleagues, don't call me names. The vote is now under way. And voting is the direct work of the National MP. And for that, people were elected to the hall. It's a good thing I reminded you. So 0148 as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:43:28]] For 216 Please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll be right back. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to put it back on now, and I'm hoping that the MPs will join us and return to their jobs. Heads of factions, please help. How does it feel to bet, colleagues? I see the deputies are five or six. Then please be careful. Every voice matters. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance (0148). Each voice has a weight and has a meaning, and I ask to vote in favour of the return to the debate. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:44:50]] For 221 Five votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come into the hall and take up jobs. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. We're short five votes. Can we vote? I'm asking you to take all the jobs. Guys, are you against ratification? Colleagues, please take up jobs, and I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Transfer of Applications for Legal Assistance (0148). Please vote. Please support the return. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:46:20]] For 228 We're back. Now, colleagues, everyone in the seats, and I'm putting to the vote draft Law 0148 as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. In general. Let's make a decision, please. Vote. [[11:46:48]] For 231 The law is passed. We have the next draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:47:20]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u98	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed a bill on the ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of paid activities by members of families of co-workers of diplomatic representations, consular institutions and representatives of international organizations. This agreement concerns the socio-working sphere and will regulate employment on the basis of reciprocity. This agreement is another treaty in a series of treaties that have already been ratified by the Supreme Council, and it is based on standard European approaches. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u99	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the European Integration Committee, Ionov Maria Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! As the government has just pointed out, the bill aims to carry out internal procedures that are precisely necessary to establish the validity of the Agreement (in the form of an exchange of letters) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of paid activities by members of families of members of diplomatic representatives, consular institutions and representatives of international organizations through ratification. The conclusion of the agreement will contribute to the realization of the right to work by members of families of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of Ukraine in Slovenia and vice versa. The European Integration Committee has considered the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, we have this and another ratification. If we have a brief discussion, we can accept both. Please record, and I urge you to be concise. Please hold the recording. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u102	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the extraordinary events that are now taking place under the walls of Parliament. Thousands of people from all over Ukraine have come to have authority to stop the debris of the earth. The government, the Compradorian authorities, led by the Comprador coalition, want to rob the Ukrainians and take the last of our Ukrainian land. And all of this is done, as these Gomer sirens sang to the travelers to then kill them, so the authorities want to rob, depopulate our Ukrainian peasants in a conversation that when they sell the land, an investor will come to the Ukrainian village. For an investor to come to a Ukrainian village, Ukrainian land must belong to the Ukrainian people, Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian farmers, not to transnational corporations and latifunds, as the authorities are trying to do! Selling Ukrainian land is a crime against Ukrainians. In the 1990 ’ s, industry was torn apart, and vouchers were distributed to people awaiting dividends. Today, they want to tear the earth apart, fortify the peasants, and turn them into slaves to transnational corporations. In order to avoid this catastrophic development scenario for our home village and for our home country, the Radical Party team has initiated and thanks, 175 national deputies have signed under amendments to the Constitution in order for Ukraine’s agricultural system to recognise farming! Ukrainian peasant, Ukrainian farmer must be master of Ukrainian land! We demand a change to our Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u103	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u104	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The agreement that we've just talked about between Ukraine and Slovenia is simple for content, but it's very important for people who work with diplomatic representations here. They usually come from all over the family. And it is very important that this term of stay in Kiev is as comfortable as possible for them. And this is possible if they work on a contractual basis, of course, according to the laws of our state, the entire period of this stay. This, indeed, is, as the deputy minister of foreign affairs said, the European practice that we need to follow. The Peter Prashenko bloc will vote in favour of ratifying this decree. And I'm asking you to support me. And there's more. Dear colleagues, literally 15-20 minutes ago, we were looking at a draft regulation on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Government of Moldova on the Dniester to make it safe in every sense of the word. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on April 2, this year, in Liverpool, at the World Greens Congress, which is held every five years, the delegation of the Party of Green Ukraine, together with the Moldovan delegation, supported by 12 more countries, called on the governments of our countries of Ukraine and Moldova to refuse the construction of GES on the Dniester. I would ask officials, and especially the minister, who, unfortunately, no longer hears us, to listen to this position, because this will be the most effective way to protect ecology and navigation, and all the flora and fauna within this pool. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement by Storm Games. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. Please invite all the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u106	Igor Shurma, "The Opposition Block." Dear colleagues, why did the Opposition Block decide today to support the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of paid activities by members of families of co-workers of diplomatic representations, consular institutions and representatives of international organizations? Since this ratification will enable and facilitate the further realization of the right to work, support the level of qualification and provide opportunities for further professional development for members of families of joint members of the diplomatic and consular institutions of both countries. And we also understand very well that today, if we want to integrate into the European community, we have to synchronize quality of life standards, social protection quality standards, protection standards for people with European values. Yet, on the other hand, what can be called the European standards of the coalition's position, which calls itself the "European Ukraine", which in its own time collapsed, sorry for the rude word, the "On Opposition" Act. In the European community, democratic societies everywhere have the rights of opposition defined by law. And we in the Supreme Council, integrating ourselves into Europe, decided not to give in to opposition. And as a result of that, the end of the day of opposition was that when the current problems of the economy, of social protection, of the development of a democratic society in Ukraine initiated by the opposition forces could be addressed. We demand the inclusion in the agenda of the opposition day, where dozens of those bills, which have been in place for months, have not been considered for years. By the way, including the Referendum Act, which everyone has forgotten. We refuse to vote today to support ratification until there is a day of opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u107	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please take all jobs. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of paid activities by family members of diplomatic representatives (No. 0133) as a whole. Colleagues, can you hear me in the hall? Everyone hears we're going to the polls? Yeah? Please take up jobs, boys. So, please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:57:22]] For 217 I'll be back. Colleagues, and I have a question, and you are definitely against those deputies who find a case against this bill? Valera, is this a no-vote position? Well, why humiliate me and the whole parliament? I'm warning you a few times. Why would you do that? Demonstrated during the vote. We're in the hall, and this is one of the biggest problems that the society is putting us in, that MPs don't go to work, but when they're in the hall and they don't vote, it's surprising, and I've said it over and over again, it's humiliating the whole Parliament. Please, I'm voting on the proposal to return to Project 0133. Please vote in favour of the return to vote 0133. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:58:36]] For 229 Decision taken. And I'm putting draft Law 0133 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[11:59:01]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, last ratification. Let's get through it quickly, colleagues, in five minutes, let's not break up. I'll bet. I'm continuing for 15 minutes, and I'm asking you to support the review of the shortened procedure for the draft Law on the Ratification of Additional Protocol No. 0135. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Stay put, we'll get through it and support it. [[11:59:37]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. And please, Mr. Sergey, in a concise way. Colleagues, we have the next law that implements this agreement. No, you're coming back, please, Sergei, you're coming back. Come on, let's report it, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u108	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your view is on the draft Law 0135 on the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders. We also propose to consider Bill 6149, which amends the Criminal Procedure Code necessary to implement these protocols into the Ukrainian legal field. What is the meaning of this Third and Fourth Protocols? They provide for a simplified procedure for the extradition of persons who are wanted in the signatory states of this convention, simplify the procedure, set short deadlines, clearly define the list of documents required for decision-making, allow electronic communications, allow the use of Interpol. And what does this lead to? This leads to the fact that in the event that the offender is hiding from Ukraine abroad, our law enforcement authorities will be able to obtain it more quickly in Ukraine, in the case of the extradition of the wanted person from Ukraine, we will be saving the time and costs we spend on its maintenance during temporary or extraditional arrests, and the time we spend on correspondence in these processes. Therefore, I would like to support the ratification of the Third and Fourth Protocols, as well as the bill that implements these provisions in the Criminal Procedure Code, amends international cooperation in the relevant article in Chapter IX and allows the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ministry of Justice to effectively implement these protocols in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u109	Thank you. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head. Indeed, just as the reporter pointed out, the bill aims to be implemented internally. Once again, State procedures. But these two protocols are proposed to ratify, along with claims that protect the rights and interests of those who are subject to extradition. And the effectiveness of these international treaties will have the effect of unifying and expediting procedures for simplified extradition between the contracting parties. Therefore, given that the implementation of the provisions of the Third and Fourth Protocols alone requires amendments to the existing laws of Ukraine, and in accordance with part seven of article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, draft laws should be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council along with the ratification bill. The subject of the legislative initiative introduced Law 6049, which was mentioned by a government representative. The Committee on Legislative Protection, as the chief in the drafting of the bill, recommends that it be accepted as a basis, and the Committee on European Integration, having considered Bill 0133, recommends it as a whole, but together with Bill 6149. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u111	Thank you. Colleagues, let's have a very brief discussion. Please record: two in, two in. Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u112	Please pass it on to the Jurassic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u113	The Peter Dustenk bloc supports this project. As early as 2012, Ukraine signed the Third and Fourth Additional Protocols to the Convention, which were designed to improve the process of reconciliation and the issuance of offenders. In particular, a fast-track procedure with the consent of the detained person has been reviewed in relation to issues, proposed modern methods of communication between members of the convention and the maximum balance of respect for human rights and compliance with the requirements of the laws of the signatory countries. For Ukraine, additional convention protocols are now important. After Maidan, we all know that many of the corrupters who robbed our country today have settled in various states, by the way, in highly developed European countries. This ratification allows them to return and to be held accountable. So we urge you to support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u114	Thank you. There will be a closing statement. In two minutes, the decision will be made. So I forcefully ask everyone to come into the hall, not to go out, to go into the hall, to prepare for the decision. Now Gusk Volodymyr. I'm only asking you, briefly, we know your position on the principle. Please, Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear Head! I would like to reaffirm once again the position of our faction that, in view of ignoring the rights of the opposition, dozens of important social and economic laws that we are passing simply do not regard the agenda, we will not vote in favour of these regulations today, including the Third Protocol Ratification and Ratification Order. I would also like to point out that in order for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work more effectively, we need to start organizing work. For example, today no question of this ratification has been voted on for the first time, and then we're trying to find time somewhere else, and we're even proposing to shorten the speeches to one minute. You can cancel the speeches at all and cancel the discussion and then cancel the institution of parliamentaryism in Ukraine at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u116	I really hope we can do this right now. Please come into the hall. I'm not even going to comment on this nonsense that sounds from the rostrum. Please, colleagues, please, one minute. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And I put to the vote, we occupy jobs, we draft the Act ratifying the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (0135) as a whole. Every vote matters, I ask you to take your place and vote 0135 as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:07:48]] For 205 Let's invite you to the hall, colleagues. Please invite the deputies into the hall, don't go out, invite them into the hall, not all of them have been able to vote. I'm asking you very much, first of all, to stay in your seats. Second, we invite the deputies to the hall. Please. Jaroslav, let's vote, then, one minute. Ask Mustafa. Colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'll put you back in. Please enter the hall, announce who is in the towers to enter the hall. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 0135. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and to support the return to the draft Law on Ratification 0135. Please vote, please support. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Voice to voice. Vote, vote, please support. [[12:09:25]] For 216 Let's wait, guys. We're waiting for a few deputies. We can't fail the ratification. Please come into the hall. Announce in the watchtowers so the MPs will come into the hall and ask the factions to help organize the deputies. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm putting the vote again now, please take the job, I'm putting a vote on the proposal to go back to draft Law 0135. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[12:10:24]] For 218. I'm asking you to come into the hall. We can't refuse ratification. I'm begging you, colleagues! The issue of international authority and the issue of parliamentary authority. Colleagues, please take your seats and vote. You'll be able to, you'll be able to take a break, you'll be able to discuss all the questions during the break. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to debate 0135. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. Please support and vote back to 0135. Please vote. Vote. People's Front, we vote! Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] The People's Front gives the highest number of votes, which is why he hoped for the People's Front. [[12:11:32]] For 214 I'll put it back on. Let's invite everyone. I'll do it again, colleagues, one last time. Please take up jobs, I'll do it again. Don't come out, guys, don't go out! I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'll do it one more time. Please, everybody, let's mobilize, let's take up jobs. I'm going to make another offer. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Ratification 0135. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Everyone carefully participates in the vote. Let's vote, fellows! Please vote! Vote! [[12:12:47]] For the 220. Don't we get six votes? There's no room. Colleagues, please, maybe. Let's do it again, let's mobilize, let's do it, colleagues, let's take up jobs. Let me do it again. Six votes. Not everyone voted, you can see that from here. Colleagues, six votes. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Ratification Act (0135). Please vote. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Don't leave the hall, come on, 30 seconds, vote! Return 0135. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[12:13:48]] For 223 Three votes. Shall we try it again? Three votes. Three votes, colleagues. Three votes. Please! We'll collect three votes now. Please, three votes. Take up jobs. I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 0135. Please, three votes, please stand by and vote. Please be supportive. I see they're in the hall. Hanna's in the hall. This gives us reason for optimism. So we vote, colleagues, return 0135. Please be supportive. Let's get together and be responsible for all the halls. This is international authority, as the MPs say. Please vote return 0135. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice matters. Very carefully, disciplined. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Colleagues, we're in agreement. [[12:14:55]] For 233 We're back, 233. And I'm voting 0135 as a whole. We're voting in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. We vote in general, we make decisions. Every voice, colleagues, take your seats. [[12:15:17]] For 227 The law is passed, colleagues. Congratulations on your decision. I want to make another announcement. Today there is an exhibition in the building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The exhibition plans the presentation of courses and diplomas of the Kosovo Institute of Applied and Decorative Arts of the Lviv National Academy of Arts on the occasion of the 135th anniversary of the establishment of the Kosovo Art School, which forms a modern concept of cultural and economic development, raises them to a new quality level. All the patriots and lovers of Hutzulščina invite you to participate in the exhibition and invite you to attend and attend the exhibition. Thank you. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes and invite everyone into the hall at 12:50 to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u117	Time spent for a break is over. I ask you to invite all the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the continuation of our work, please. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, and the heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall. People's deputies please come into the hall. So, colleagues, we're starting our work. There was a statement from two factions for a break, but they were ready to replace the break from the faction. And I invite you to the speech of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the representative of the People's Front, Andrey Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! By our hard work in Parliament, we are building a new Ukraine. A new Ukraine capable of protecting itself against the enemy. The new Ukraine, which finally came to grips with the effects of the economic crisis. The new Ukraine, which is finally beginning to regain its position by pursuing certain foreign political positions in our country. And it is extremely important to focus our goals properly so that we understand where we want to go. And I am very much asking, and I am addressing Mr. President of the Supreme Council as one of the first questions for tomorrow's agenda to draft Bill 6470, with which we are focusing very clearly on our desire to gain NATO membership. Considering that all our efforts, when we concentrate, achieve victory, such a focus on the acquisition of NATO membership by Ukraine will make it clear that we are able to defend ourselves in a country that will soon be part of European space. And the acquisition of NATO membership will make it clear that Ukraine is capable of protecting itself, including being part of NATO. So thank you all for your attention. And I ask everyone to join the vote tomorrow for Bill 6470. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u119	Thank you. I think, colleagues, no one will deny that tomorrow we will be asking the first question in the agenda about Ukraine's accession to NATO, that we will be in the Law on the Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy clearly and unequivocally mark Ukraine's desire to join NATO. It is difficult for us to talk to our partners if Ukraine itself does not publicly demonstrate this desire, and the Supreme Council, which forms the principles and foundations of Ukraine's foreign policy, does not see this at the level of legislation. So I'm sure this initiative will be supported and voted on tomorrow. Colleagues, we have the next item on the agenda. This includes the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders. Now I'm going to propose that we vote for the inclusion of the agenda of this issue. If we see that there are not enough votes in the room, I will be forced to conduct a rating vote for the presence of deputies in the hall and the possibility or inability to hold our meeting after a recess. So I ask everyone to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform you that a vote will take place. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda, this is the next position of our regulation, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[13:04:36]] For 132 [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's exchange thoughts on how to act, let's take a minute from the faction. Let's have a discussion. 132. The decision is not made. One minute, please advise the factions on how to act. Peter Dustenka's Block. Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I propose to invite the deputies into the hall right now, because we really have a decision to make right now. And only after that will we decide what we are going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u121	People's Front. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Turn on the can microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, thank you to those who conscientiously carry out their duties as deputies goes through a great deal of shame and disrespect for those who do not go to work. People choose deputies, they hope to work, they don't go to work. If a teacher, a doctor, a mechanic, or a metal miner hadn't come out, a man would have been fired. He doesn't have a national deputy, and he gets paid. The Radical Party cannot and cannot work under such antihuman conditions when they fool Ukrainians, when they disrespect Ukrainians, when they do not support Ukrainians in their actions. That's why we're asking you to put up a rating vote, show those who disrespect the Ukrainians, and close the session today. The events in Parliament show the relevance of the Radical Party programme. A reduction of the number of deputies to 200, a cancellation of the MP's integrity and a withdrawal.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u123	Opposition Block, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u124	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, today there has been a vote on laws that ratify international agreements. "The Opposition Block," in fact, considered whether or not it was necessary to vote in such bills, did not take part today. Explain why. The whole point is, if we want to live as a civilized country like Europe, please set aside one day for the opposition so that the opposition can stand up for its legislative initiatives. And now, essentially. You know, I'm the political opponent of the chairman. But I have to tell you, I stand in his defense. You, the coalition, are the unconscionable people, you have delegated a person to organize the work of Parliament, and he must address you today and ask you to come to the Hall. What are you doing with the person you gave the right to run Parliament and to be the face of Ukrainian parliamentaryism? You just unwittingly approach your colleague. If it were my will, you know, I wouldn't let your feet into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u125	From Fatherland, Sergey Eutuszek, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u126	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Plainshine, "The Fatherland" faction. We would also like to say that the government in our governance model should rely on coalition support. So what we're talking about today is that there's no basis on which the government could rely on some kind of bill. So the "Fatherland" faction understands that there is a bill in order today that we are prepared to support, particularly on child feeding, that Mr. Golovo proposes to invite all the deputies to the hall, to come to the table, and to consider the positive bills on feeding children by the author John Grigorovovich Kirilenko and Spoowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u127	From Self-Help for one minute, Oleg Barresuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u128	Mr. Head, we need to implement Parliament's Rules of Procedure, place the votes on the ratings if there are not enough people in the room to close the meetings. And the elector, he's wise in Ukraine, he'll figure it out and make his own decision in the election to the Supreme Council. There's no other way out, according to the Rules, everything else is a chatchain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u129	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." Turn on the microphone, please, Melniczuk. It's already on. Please. And your card's in the same place, see?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u130	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. Looking at what is happening in Parliament from day to day, we can conclude that this Parliament is ineffective. And I propose that we finish, do a rating vote and finish the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u131	Thank you. Just speaking of Parliament's incapacity, Mr. Sergei, I ask you to turn your attention to the right and left of yourself and look at the number. I'm giving my head to the People's Front. Look, the faction is almost complete in the room. Please, the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, here we have heard Jaroslav's "plague" from the fifth column of the Kremlin and their followers from "Fatherland" about discipline, about not making decisions. Where are your factions' heads, please tell me on business day? And now I want to address everyone in this room. And don't we have to finally start reforming our Supreme Council, because sometimes we have to look in the mirror in the morning, and it's hard for someone to do that. And your initiative, Andrew Volodymyrovich, is to finally cancel the break of 12.00-12. 30, it will help to have a quorum in this session room after the break. Secondly, let's now conduct a rating vote, and tomorrow, publish in the Voice of Ukraine the names of those deputies and the heads of factions, fat people who are not in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-06-07-m0.u133	Thank you, colleagues, for your advice. I'll do it the way we've done it before. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for a rating vote for the presence of deputies in the hall. I have repeatedly stressed this, and once again, when there are no deputies in the room at work, it's mean to those on the front today who are teaching children at work today, treating children, and none of them come to mind to be absent at work during work hours. I find this unacceptable and I believe that this will discredit the entire Ukrainian Parliament. That is why we should not accept it. Now we're going to run a rating vote, we're going to publish in the Voice of Ukraine, so that society can see who works, and who doesn't work at work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now and prepare for the ratings vote. And we're going to publish those who aren't in the workplace who talk the most about what the Supreme Council should be doing, performing on the briefings, performing on the air, and there's no time for them to work in Parliament. Please come into the hall, I'll wait 30 seconds for the deputies to take up their jobs so everyone in the room can take up their jobs. And, colleagues, this is the general position that we're going to publish in the Voice of Ukraine. Yeah? Common position, agreed. And I ask you to take part in the rating vote so that we can determine whether there are enough national MPs in the hall so that we can continue our sessions. We vote all green "yes" buttons that show the presence of an MP in the room. This is not a consideration of the issue, this is a rating vote for the presence of MPs in the room. Please prepare for the vote and please take part in the vote, please vote, please take part. [[13:14:00]] For 213 So, colleagues, 213 deputies, that's not enough for us to be able to participate in the meeting. I can read it. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 85, "National Front" – 56, "Resistance Block" – 12, "self-help" – 14, Radical Party Lachka – 14, "Fatherhood" – 5, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party Rebirth" – 8. Since there are not enough votes to make a decision, I close the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the invitation of the factions. I want to remind everyone who has not been to a meeting, their lists will be published and placed in public space. I hope this will make it work among the deputies. I want to remind you that we have a parliamentary hearing this afternoon on the theme "priority to adhere to insurance principles in reforming pension reform." I also want to emphasize that there is a committee meeting today, and I want fruitful and creative work on the committees. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the hall. We will begin with the first question of defining and articulating the issue of Ukraine's accession to NATO. To this day, I wish all the national deputies a successful and fruitful work on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, see you later.
