ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u1	Good morning! People's deputies please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Should we register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. [[10:05:25]] 347 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today, Christians of all rituals celebrate the festival of the Ascension of the Lord. I warmly welcome everyone with the bright festival that this year is celebrated at the same time by Christians of all rituals. I sincerely wish the Ukrainians unity, not only during religious festivals, but in the name of the prosperity of Ukraine. Also today, colleagues, the birthday of our colleague Borislav Rosenblatt. Let's welcome our colleague on his birthday. Welcome! Guys, we're working today without performances, so we're going to have to go straight to work. And in two words, I want the logic of today. We're going to have a significant block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session, where there are both government and presidential and parliamentary bills. And I'm going to ask you to maximize your mobility under this block. I will also propose today a bill on reforming Parliament to implement 17 amendments to the reform of the Ukrainian Parliament. The working group held five meetings, and this bill on the ratio of committees and ministries was defined as compromising between all factions. And I'm asking my colleagues very much that this bill be supported. And I would also like to point out that a key block today will be a block of information issues that will bring together a few fairly large bills. And so I ask my colleagues to adjust to active and active work. I'm going to put the motion to cancel break 12.00-12 on the vote again today. 30. And I very much expect that we will support this initiative. And I really hope that we can have an effective day. Four of us always have a day that's the most focused and most effective. So please get ready for work, we're going to move on to the first question of the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act (for the definition of the concept of cultural heritage). (5678). The first vote will be a shortened procedure. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I urge you to take up your jobs, and now there will be a vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Heads of factions, are we ready to vote? And I'm asking everyone to support this idea. Ready. I'm asking everyone to support the vote in favour of the shortened procedure, and I'm putting to the vote a proposal for a draft Cultural Heritage Protection Act (5678) to be considered under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Careful, please! Take part in the vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[10:09:16]] For-119 Not everyone has come yet, and not everyone has taken on the importance. So this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage, a bill that brings together the entire room, which has the overall position of all factions to support. And I always make the first law the one that unites the hall. But for us to get into the work rhythm, it's important that we support the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to take another seat, and I'm going to put it to the vote again. Take up jobs, please. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs. So I'm voting again, and I'm asking everyone to vote. Ready, colleagues? I urge everyone to support me. I ask the heads of factions to ensure that all deputies take part in the vote. Vote, colleagues? I'm putting to the vote the proposal that 5678, the draft Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage, should be considered in a simplified procedure. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to vote carefully. Let's support Ukraine's cultural heritage. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:11:27]] For 135 I'll do it again. I see. Come on, turn on the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 60, National Front – 40, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 7, Fatherland – 4, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth – 0. Colleagues, there's no discussion here. There's no such thing as conflict situations from that bill. Please support me. Colleagues, please sit down, take up jobs. I'll put it to the vote again. So, colleagues, please, let's get to the vote. Colleagues, shall we vote? Please take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote, hopefully this time in a very effective way, a summary of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act (5678). Please support everyone. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. Please carefully take part in the vote. We vote yes. We're waiting for the girls. Don't turn it on. All of it. Olya, please. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:13:37]] For a hundred and Decision taken. We did it. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy by Irina Igorovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The identification of a cultural heritage monument, enshrined in the original edition of part six of the first article of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, caused a conflict of rights. According to this article, only objects in the State Register of Real Estates are considered cultural heritage. At the same time, according to paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act, the objects included in the lists of lists of monuments of history and culture of republican or local importance in accordance with the Ukrainian RSR Act on the Protection and Use of Monuments of History and Culture are considered to be national or local monuments. The state register of immovable monuments works, but it is not fully formed; it is still constantly filled with objects of cultural heritage. Thus, many cultural objects that have not yet entered the register but may fall there are at risk of losing legal protection. It is proposed that the term “a cultural heritage monument” be supplemented by a provision that also includes objects of cultural heritage that have been taken into national account in accordance with the legislation that was in force before the law became effective. Before deciding whether or not to include an object of cultural heritage in the State Register of Real Estate The current design of the cultural heritage monument has already led to negative court practice. As an example, the Ukrainian Supreme Court’s decree of October 22, 2013, as well as the Supreme Court’s decree of 09.09.2014, established that the legal status of the property’s cultural heritage is acquired only from the time it was entered into the national register. This bill is necessary, by which we organize among ourselves the rules of the same Protection Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u3	We're done, aren't we? 30 seconds, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u4	Therefore, I ask your honourable colleagues to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Irina! And the co - report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Huh?Oh, my God! Irina Podowak, the first deputy, will also speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! We've considered this bill at our committee meeting. Its authors were all members of our committee. I have to tell you that the bill is the one we don't like, but we call it technical. He was made at the strong request of the Ministry of Culture. Because for quite a long period of time, a considerable amount of memory in connection with this colony, which is in the main article and in the “Transitional Positions, ” was not viewed as cultural monuments. And our committee has decided to recommend that you, honourable colleagues, adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. But since the GNEU has an observation of a technical legal nature that needs to be corrected, to my conviction as the first deputy head of the committee, there is still a need to vote for it in the first reading in order to correct it, and quickly in the second reading, to adopt a better draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u7	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u9	Honorary colleagues, the protection of cultural monuments, the proper filling of the State Register of Cultural Monuments, as well as all registers, which unfortunately are now in very inappropriate form, which, for many decades or years, have not yet been properly developed by the central authority of the executive branch, and even the concept is being worked out in some registers. However, in order to avoid negative judicial practice, please take responsibility for this bill, to meet with the Ministry of Culture and to correct this conflict, which is in this, in the existing law. So please ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u10	Thank you. Lucenko Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will clearly support this bill. Motivation what? We must eliminate all possible and impossible risks that threaten our memories. Understanding the enormous importance of protecting our cultural heritage, which guarantees the preservation of our identity, the preservation of our country, the Fatherland faction will support this bill. Speaking of the bill, it is impossible to say what a colossal catastrophe has now occurred with the protection of Ukrainian monuments. Even UNESCO’s priority monuments, which at the same time are not only Ukrainian but also part of the worldwide heritage, are at great risk today. Today, in the National Police, my initiative has registered and investigated criminal conduct involving officials of the Ministry of Culture who falsify reports on UNESCO’s monuments in Ukraine. Today, objective information on how we protect or do not protect the memory of global significance in Ukraine is not provided objectively in UNESCO, falsified, and must be investigated by the National Police. This is, if you'll excuse me, a disgrace to the international level for our country. In Lavra there is now simply building on the very site of UNESCO’s monument. Potter 17/23, this is the address near Sofia Kyivsky, today there are plans in the President's environment to restore, yes, the building, to destroy this monument by building it in its buffer zone of appropriate disharmonic structures. So to show how catastrophic the situation with memory protection is now, to show those risks and to protect them as much as possible, we as a faction vote for it and we urge everyone to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u12	Thank you. Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u13	Please give the word to Mr. Yelen.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! This bill is technical at first sight, in fact, blocking the colossal layer of our culture and our memory. It is a huge number of cultural monuments, history, and archaeology that are taken into account but not included in the State Register. Among such monuments are real masterpieces, not only outside Ukraine but also in Ukraine. This bill was discussed by prominent historical figures, with the participation of people who have spent their entire lives protecting cultural heritage. I very much ask and urge you to join the committee's opinion, join the thinking of the historical and cultural community and support this project in an unanimity manner. This project outside of party political and regional diversity is our overall project. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u15	Thank you. Colleagues, the closing statement will now be Sergey Melniczuk, and in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. So I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u16	Good day, fellow countrymen, good day, Ukrainian people! The "will of the people" group will definitely support this bill, because the coalition needs to be reformed and the legislation has to work. I also want to say that not one such coalition is also a lot of new expressions, vocabulary, and we need to introduce into our legislation, one of which is the notion of "voluntary." We're all talking about volunteers, but the Axis Volunteers Act is on one of the committees, and the committee head is just not letting him and his causes go. And I want to talk about today's date. Today, three years have passed since the election of the President, today three years ago, the Idar battalion has held the first 14 captives in charge of a Moscow pop who, with weapons in his hands, has destroyed the Lugansk area. But half the volunteers who took part in the operation are no longer alive. And everywhere we talk to volunteers, this concept also needs to be voted out, the laws have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u17	Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Please take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. So let's move on to the decision-making process, I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act (for the definition of the concept of cultural heritage) (number 5678). At the suggestion of a committee on the basis and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Colleagues, we're making a decision, please take part in the vote, we're voting. Please be supportive. Vote! [[10:26:09]] For 203 203-yes. You know, colleagues, I was asking in the Apparatus when it was like this now? That people are in the hall, they hear that there's a vote coming, they support the law, and they just have to go to their seats to participate. It's not acceptable, colleagues, it's irresponsible and unacceptable. This is the work of a member of the Supreme Council to make decisions, and you can have discussions later. And every time I put it back, it's a shame in front of all of Ukraine. I very much ask all my colleagues to take up jobs in a disciplined manner and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm going to put you back in the hall, please, take your jobs. So now I'm going to make an offer to come back, so please, we're taking up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act (5678). Please support the return to consideration of 5678. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. I'd like everyone to vote. [[10:28:10]] For the 220. I'll do it again. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall and take up jobs. The heads of the factions, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. So, colleagues, can we vote? Let's go to the vote. Please take up jobs. I ask you to take up your jobs, and I propose to return to the vote for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act. Please take over and take part in the vote. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. [[10:29:41]] For 225 I see. Please vote in favour of the return to the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act (5678). Every voice matters. Please take part in the vote. Please vote for the return. Vote. Please be supportive. I urge everyone to vote carefully. Vote. [[10:30:17]] For 228 We're back. Now let's move on to making a decision. Take up jobs. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act (5678) as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights. I'd like your support, colleagues. It's already a decision-making process. I ask everyone to vote responsibly and in agreement. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[10:31:03]] For 235 235-yes. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a very short law that united the hall when we adopted it as a basis. This is a draft law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Recognition of National Sports (5324). At that time, we were mobilized, accepting it on our first reading. Before the second reading, only a few amendments were made. So there will be a brief consideration of the matter. And please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. This is the bill of Law 5324. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport of Veliczkowicz Mikol Romanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, Bill 5324 has been further developed in preparing for the second reading. In all, 17 amendments were made to the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies. It is suggested that you take 5 amendments into account, that you reject - 9, and that you take 2 amendments into account. The bill proposes to strengthen the concept of "national sports" at the legislative level and to define the characteristics of sports federations that contribute to the development of national sports. When working on the committee, the draft for second reading focused on two issues: changing the term "national sports" to "traditional" or "ethnic sports" and the question of granting the status of the National Federation of National Sports. The discussion concluded that the term "national sports" was broader and that since the term "traditional sports" was not available in sports terminology in the field of physical culture and sport, it was suggested that national sports should be supported. In addition, the first reading was supported, which is proposed to supplement article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport with a new part of the content: "In the absence of an appropriate international sports federation, the status of the National Sports Federation, which contributes to the development of the national sport, is given by decision of the central executive body, which implements state policy in the field of physical culture and sport." That's what makes it possible. Such a proposal enables the state to support leading organizations that develop national sports and give the prospect of initiating the creation of the International Federation of National Sports. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill in second reading and in general. And, Andrew Volodymyrovich, there's another technical question. When printing there in the table where number 17 is, it was released that the committee supported 17 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u19	Okay. Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Please prepare the amendments. 1st. Yvchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u20	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I thank the committee for supporting my corrections, some of my corrections. But, at the same time, I have to say about the failed performances of our teammates and the football of the Olympic team this year. I mean, there can't be a sport without budget support or local budgets. That's the first one. The other one. We should make changes to the Tax Code once and for all, and interest entrepreneurs in sports, equipment, and ammunition. And we have over this, colleagues, to think about, so today sport needs to be infused. Entrepreneurs are not interested, no one allows them to invest in sports to represent it as their own cost. And we have these things going on, they're going through the tax pits, and then they're going to give cash. But believe me, it's embedded in corrupt schemes. Rather, they would pay taxes and invest directly in expenses. And add a minute, I have a second amendment, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u21	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u22	Finally, I want to say about the construction of sports infrastructure. My colleague Silantiev and I have proposed a bill on the moratorium. And I want to go to the heads of the local self-government and the government. I do not see a reaction when sports objects are being built, when they take and change the goal of sports infrastructure. I would like the government, especially the Ministry, to respond more strongly to these very things. I'd like to support the committee, too. That's the three things I'm talking about: budget support, changes to the Tax Code for the inclusion of additional funds from entrepreneurs directly into sports and moratoriums to change the target destination of infrastructure objects. For this law the Fatherland will vote. Thank you for supporting our revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u23	Are you insisting on voting for your amendment? Don't insist. Then there's no need to comment, Mikola Romanovich. 2nd, Neda. Don't insist. 3rd, Sergey Eutuszek. 3 revisions, please. Eutushka, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I also want to thank the drafters of the bill, as well as the committee, because they understand that we need to put, for today, into the hearts of those people who have Ukrainian passports, but in fact, they might be thinking about another state. I mean, now Donbas and our huge problem. When children come out in national clothes, embroidered clothes, in carpentry, and demonstrate the roots of our Cossack grandfathers, it actually brings out respect. When children start with the Ukrainian prayer of competition, they won't think about another aggressor state, for example, the Russian Federation and their values. So thank you very much. "Paternity" supports all this work done. And hopefully it won't just lock up on the bill, but it will continue, I mean that maybe families will go west to the countries from the east.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u25	Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. 5th, Nedda. Don't insist. 9th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. We'll have a vote in two minutes. There are two revisions left. 11th, Neda. Don't insist. 14th, Sissyenne. Don't insist. 15th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. And, colleagues, last one. She's not. Don't insist. So we finished our discussion of the amendments. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking you to invite the Supreme Council Secretariat, members of the House. Mikola Romanovich, thank you for your report. For a very quality and professional job. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'd like to emphasize. Many Olympic sports were once national sports of one state or another. Ukraine has its traditional national sports, which, in addition to sports, also gives the spirit, the Ukrainian national spirit. And now we have our vote to support them at least in our country. I think it's a matter of national honor and the raising of a new Ukrainian generation and the question of patriotism. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. This is not a complicated but very signistic bill that unites all factions. Please, we're taking up jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. Hundreds of sections in Ukraine that need support, Ukrainian children, and patriots. We're voting, aren't we? And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Recognition of National Sports (No. 5324). Please support everyone, please vote in second reading and in general. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please vote for all, regardless of factions, patriots, please support! [[10:40:11]] For 227 The law is passed. Our gopaks, you hand the gopaks, by the way, Mikola Romanovich is himself the head of the Federation of Ukrainian Hopas. Today, a national party was held for them. And I welcome everyone. Colleagues! Next law, pay attention. This is the law on reform of Parliament. And he's proposing to include him in the agenda for making decisions, colleagues. We got a committee decision yesterday. Five meetings were held by a working group and were defined as compromising for all factions, where the ratio of committees and government ministries is usually not mandatory. But there are no more than 20 committees. And most importantly, colleagues. This is for the next call. These are our commitments to reform the Parliament. And I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. I mean, if we vote, I'm going to propose that we support it on the basis. And so I ask everyone, especially the members of the working group, who have worked at so many meetings, who have held many consultations with European colleagues, to support them. So I'm voting on the proposal to put in order a day session to take a decision on draft Laws 6256 and 6256-1. Please be supportive. Those who support it, for then we will consider it. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[10:42:05]] For-200 Please turn on the factions. Colleagues, this is a question of reform of Parliament, which we speak of so inspiredly at all international councils. And when it comes to making decisions, unfortunately, this inspiration falls. I will offer it and continue to include it in the agenda for making a decision. And I, my colleagues, ask for further advice and support. The next two questions in the agenda are the question of the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competitive Commission for the selection of candidates for the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities. The first draft of Decree (6493) on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities. And I'm going to vote on the motion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:43:53]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic complex. Please. Colleagues, let me ask the question of reform of Parliament again after lunch. And I ask the faction to hold further consultations, perhaps at lunchtime. Please, Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that it is extremely important for us to create a nomination commission and start the process of rotation of the members of the NCRE. At its meeting yesterday, the Fuel and Energy Committee reviewed the proposals made by the factions. I would like to remind you that this is a re-examination of this issue at a session of the Supreme Council in plenary and faction, just as in the first round, has been given the same nominations both to the Committee on Housing and Utilities and the same proposals to the Fuel and Energy Committee. Yesterday at our committee meeting, three candidates were considered: the candidature of Andrey Gerus, re-elected by the Self-Help faction, by Alexia Kucherenka, who was re-elected by the Fatherland faction and the candidate, Constantine Zapaiszczykova, who was re-elected by the People's Front. During the presentation, Alexy Kucherenko withdrew his candidacy and two candidates were put to the vote: Andria Gerus of the Self-Help faction and Constantine Zapajszczykov of the People's Front faction. In the process of voting, the majority has been nominated by Constantine Zapayszczykov and on behalf of the committee, I ask that you support this nomination to the Nomination Commission for the selection of the members of the NCREKP. And what I'd also like to say is that Constantine Saveshchev has a lot of experience in the energy of work, almost 40 years old. He is today the head of the Market Council, which was chosen by all members of the Ukrainian electricity market. He is an uninvolved candidate of political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u28	From political parties and energy companies, and so I ask you to support this candidacy and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u29	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Andreev's Dmitry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u30	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Peter Dusty Block, of course, will support this candidacy. And I am sure that Parliament must take its decisive step towards the rotation that is taking place under the President's decree, so we support this candidacy. I'm sure Parliament will form its quota and commission will start working, and we'll start a rotation in an extremely important body that determines the tariffs in housing and electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u31	Thank you. Zubak Lubomir Lvivitch, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Lev Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! I would like to draw attention to the importance of the commission, the National Commission for Regulatory of the Electricity Market. You remember how long we worked so that the law could be passed. You remember how we tried, and I personally applied for a full rotation of all the members of the commission. We know all the scandalous decisions that the commission is making, so it is very important for us as quickly as possible to adopt new members and create a new composition of a commission that will be uninvolved, professional, independent and objective. Unfortunately, the situation that we're seeing right now shows quite different intentions, particularly for the President of Ukraine, who has appointed all the members of the commission that are working today. And these actions that are taking place in Parliament also say that they want to preserve the situation for as long as possible. We've already voted in favour of these two candidates who were delegated to the People's Front and also to the Peter Dustenk Block in the Hall, and there were no votes. Why are the same candidates again, I don't understand? What happened, what changes happened to those candidates in this week or month of time, and we have to vote again for them? I don't mind about any of those candidates, but the principle is absolutely insufferable, the principle of independence of approach and non-engagement. There can't be a nominee commission formed entirely exclusively by people who will be delegated to the Peter Prashenko Block, because two people are appointed by Peter Prashenko for their presidential quota and another person will be, from the parliamentary faction. That is why we do not consider it possible to accept these candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u34	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u35	The Self-Help faction does not consider it possible to support the candidates' data, and we demand that we assign as quickly as possible, delegate to Parliament two independent candidates who will not be dependent on today's governing factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u36	From Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u37	The question currently being addressed has a direct bearing on setting tariffs for everything for people. And we know that today, the National Commission on Electricity Control, which has set people up with insurmountable tariffs, and these insurmountable tariffs have led today to almost 30 billion in debt for electricity before energy, and almost 20 billion in debt for heat and gas -- that's what this tariff policy has led to. Mr. Wolfe, who has set such tariffs in the interests of corruption, is in charge of the NCREKP business partner today, and there is a massive money-laundering and there is now a rise in tariffs. So the key issue was to make the tariff commission independent of authority. We have passed a law on this commission to make the leader independent, but today we see that this law on NCREKP is absolutely worthless. And today we are once again brought into the hall by a man who will choose this leader of the NCREKP completely dependent on the two factions that make up the majority today. And that means that corruption will continue. And that is why if we want to vote for Mr. Herus, who was supported by the Fatherland Party, by the Independent Commission of the NCRENC, taking down the candidate Alexie Kucherenk in favour of Gerus. That is why I am asking Parliament to vote for an independent person and not to support Mr. Zapaiszczkov, who will serve, unfortunately, the interests of the President, the Prime Minister, the majority of them and all those who have an interest in washing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u38	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u39	And I would also like to tell the Ukrainians today that a decision has been taken by the government of Groysman, who, since October 1st, wants to raise gas prices to eight and a half thousand dollars. This means that the abuse of you continues and that authority must be put away!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u40	Colleagues, now the closing statement, then there will be more, the request was from the Radical Party. So in three or four minutes, we're going to go to the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Now Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the question is not whether to choose today or not. I can only give you one example of the work of NCRE when Chercasioblanergo today actually became the object of such oligarchic debates and people haven't been paid in six months. Today they have declared an unscheduled strike, and the entire Cherkas region is on the verge of no electricity at all. So I very much ask you, Mr. Speaker, and all of you, the leadership of the BP, other factions to intervene in this situation to stop this mess so that people can finally get their wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u42	Thank you. It's two minutes from the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. And then we go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The National Commission for Regulatory of the Electricity and Utilities Market makes decisions that affect millions of Ukrainians. They set tariffs on residential services, on water, on hot, on cold heat. And so the work of this commission directly affects the interests of every person who pays for residential services. Therefore, it is vital that this commission be independent of the oligarchs, of the authorities, that this commission be completely objective in calculating the cost of these services in order not to rob Ukrainians. Regrettably, the present composition of the NCREKP does not meet these requirements, it is dependent on authority, because the head of the NCREKP Wolf is President Prashenko's elevator and he is dependent on the oligarchs, who today have put their claws at a terrible start in the energy market to rob Ukrainians through high tariffs. That is why the faction of the Radical Party is very demanding for the members of the competitive commission that will choose the new composition of the NCRECR. The members of the competition commission offered to us will serve the interests of the authorities who today have conspired with the oligarchs to rob the Ukrainians. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not support the candidates for the competition commission put forward by the authorities. In addition, we call again on the government of Groissmann: to immediately return to the government the state and national gas distribution networks that were built at the expense of the state budget, which were built at the expense of the people. Today, they are free to use the oligarches of Firtash, Boyko, Ljovczyn, and the Ukrainians pay billions of coins from their own pockets in the pocket of the oligarchs, and then they share the authority. Enough corruption on the energy market! Give the people back what they stole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u44	Colleagues, Dombrowski, head of the committee, closing statement. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u45	Honorable colleagues, respected factions in the Ukrainian Parliament, I feel that there is one thesis that unites all factions: both those factions in power and those factions in opposition. This is the thesis that we need to change the members of the NCRE. For those of you who don't know, I want to inform you that since tomorrow of the seven members of the NCRE in accordance with Law 3, only four members of the NCRE remain to work, three of which will have to be released in six months. So leaving what we have today is much worse than what we want to do. We need to start a procedure to replace the members of the NCRE. We need to run. to enable the Nominee Commission to start publicly, transparently, under the control of media, parliamentary groups and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u46	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u47	start selecting new members of the NCRE. So, I think we need to not put the situation in a corner of politics. We don't have the moral right to go the "worst, the better." And I propose to vote and support this candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u48	Colleagues, we have a discussion. I'm giving all factions the opportunity to speak in the same way. When we have very little time, I only give two for, two for against, and no one else. All factions are in the same position, although some have 141 deputies and some have 20 deputies. And yet, the speeches go the same way for everyone, I can't break that parity of justice, because otherwise there won't be a sense of justice in the hall. So I'm sorry, I won't be able to give a single speech to anyone after a while. Colleagues, we're done here. Let's move on to the decision. Please prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for the National Commission for Energy and Utilities (No. 6493). The committee proposes to support the draft decision. Please take up your jobs. Please take part in the vote. Well, colleagues, when you vote, why are you in a government bed? Mr. Minister of Ecology, I ask that you allow the MPs to vote. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, and I'm voting on the committee's proposal to support the draft Decree 6493. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support us to get to work at the Competitive Commission. [[10:59:57]] For 205 The decision is not made. I'll put it back once. It's just a huge breakout, but I'll do it again. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft regulation 6493. Please vote for return to 6493. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:00:35]] For 205 The decision is not made. Next order. We have a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission. It's already the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing. I want to emphasize, the Supreme Council gives two candidates, not from political factions, but from two committees. There was now a Committee on Fuel and Energy, now a candidate from the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. 6458. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:01:28]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Development, and the Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Dmitri Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u49	Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, to implement article 8 of the Act "On the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services" of September 22, 2016, No. 1540, as well as in accordance with the Presidential Decree "On Approval of the Plan of Rotation of the Head and Members of the National Commission" of March 23, 2017 (No.78/2017) The Committee on Construction, Housing and Communal Economy, at its meeting on May 17, 2017, re-examined the candidates for a competitive commission proposed by the parliamentary groups and factions. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided by majority to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a candidate for the position of member of the competitive commission, Shulhu Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Shulga Yuri Ivanovich has more than 40 years of perfect work experience. He served as Head of the State Committee on Energy Conservation, in responsible positions in the Ukrainian government, in the Council of National Security and Defence. He has a serious experience of teaching, scientific activity. The committee is confident that this knowledge, experience, patriotic position, will make Yuri Ivanovich a worthy member of the competitive commission. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u50	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. It's a pantyhose.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Andreyevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u52	Mr. Dmitri, you've been handed the word. Will you be from the rostrum or from the seat? Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone, from the spot, Andreyevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, it is very easy for me to recommend Yuri Ivanovich Schulgu, whom I have known for more than 30 years. He was a teacher at a university. I mean, this person has an extraordinary experience. I am confident that he will be worthy of serving as a member of the commission. This man is independent, and he is not part of any political power. During the discussion, the committee asked very specific questions. To all questions, Yuri Ivanovich answered and testified to both knowledge and tremendous work experience. So, my fellow Members, once again, I appeal to all the deputies to support this candidacy. Again, I want to say the main thing. Today, we mean the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to start the process of updating the members of the NCREKP. There's a lot of talk about tariffs, about setting them up, about economic justification. All these questions must be answered by an independent controller. The Supreme Council, I'm sure, has to take appropriate steps and form a competition commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u54	From "self-help," Markevich gives it to Podlisecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! I would like to reiterate once again the importance of the NCREKP commission, which defines and regulates all tariffs, and completely all activities in energy markets, and the importance of adopting there truly independent professional members, whom we are going to select and the nomination commission that we define today. I would like to remind you that the nomination committee is made up of five people. Two people are delegated automatically by the President. And of course, we cannot counsel and influence him as to whom he can determine. Two men are appointed by the Supreme Council and one by the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why I urge and appeal to all responsible members of Parliament to delegate independent of the power of candidates to the nominee commission. We need to save at least a chance for the nomination commission to select independent and objective, professional representatives of the commission. It is therefore impossible to vote again today for the same representative we voted for a month ago. The Self-Help faction will not support the candidate and will turn to all factions to delegate other candidates or to support those proposals offered by opposition factions. In particular, Fatherland and Self-Help were supported by the Andry Gerus Energy Committee. And I think the same could be a consistent position from all factions regarding the delegation from the Housing Services Committee. So let us not delay, and at the next meeting we will come up with proposals that will be acceptable to the entire room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u56	Thank you. Lensky Alekseiyyyyovich gives the speech to Leszko Oleg of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u57	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Candidate to the Competition Commission from the selection of candidates for membership in the Nazi Commission for the regulation of the energy market and the utility services that we are currently discussing, from the Peter Prashenko Block. Plus, the president has the anti-constitutional, as we believe, legal capacity to appoint two more candidates. Consequently, three out of five members of the Competition Commission, which will form a new composition of the NCREKP, will be from President Dustenk. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I have a very simple question: Why do three out of the five members of the committee who will form the NCRECR? I think that's a rhetorical question. Because when you take the Constitution of Ukraine, you will see that there is no legal right in the list of President of Ukraine's powers, there is no authority to influence the formation of the NCREKP, which sets tariffs. I see there the authority in the Constitution: national security, defence, the guarantee of human rights, but the President's powers do not have the right to form tariffs. And today he's trying to get this straight right. The answer to that question is obvious: Because there are hundreds of billions of dollars in energy, energy, and energy. And this is the only way in which Ukrainians can get their money out of their pockets in a corrupt way, which is why the authorities and the President need this influence. Ukrainians, then, should know when they pay the space tariffs in whose pocket these tariffs go. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues from WFP: don't discredit the President and yourself, give up the illegal influence on the NCREKP and allow Ukrainians to pay fair, not corrupt tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u58	We haven't had Fatherland yet -- two minutes, then the Kodola of the People's Front -- two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! Just in the last vote, there was a failed candidate, a candidate for conspiracy and a contractor between the People's Front, BPT and, apparently, the Opposition Block because they voted for it; a candidate who had to choose another corruptioner for the National Commission for Electricity Regulation, which sets tariffs for people. And I want you to look at what's going on in the hall. BPP corruptioners are now shouting out at those who have not voted and are trying to raise 226 next, because by the next vote to the commission that will elect candidates for the leadership of the NCRECR, they now include a second candidate to control the funds that will be allocated to the NCRECR, who will control the costs of Ukraine's more state budget, which are being torn down by people for housing and utilities. Journalists often ask the question: What are these corruption treaties in the Supreme Council? Now there's a specific contractor. The People's Front, the Opposition Block and the Peter Dustenka Block agreed on two candidates: Shulga, who will now vote, and Zapayscikov, who has just voted. They want to continue to have in their hands the billions of dollars that people pay for tariffs, set cloudy tariffs, rip off people for the last time, and share it in a corrupt environment. I now call on Parliament not to vote in favour of Shulga's candidature for all honest national MPs. Because it's a conspiracy, a conspiracy of three factions that do corruption on tariffs. And I would also like to give an example of what reform looks like. Reform of the National Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u60	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u61	Further reform of the National Commission on Electricity Control, which sets tariffs. The law is passed. It's declared reform, but there's still corruption, there's no continued appointment of dependent leaders, there's no reform. Fatherland didn't vote in favour of this law. And I ask you to look at which factions left corruption schemes and called it reforms. I urge you not to vote for Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u62	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, and then we're going to vote. That's why I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies to the Hall, and the heads of the factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Two minutes now, the People's Front. Maxim Burbak, please. Turn on Maxim Burbak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the previous speech proved that it was really an expert in the gas market and I would like to remind you how the gas agreements in 2009 were signed, and that we have now overpaid over $50 billion for the so-called "gifts" from Moscow, which she signed. And second of all, I'd like to talk about what's called a conspiracy. We want to update the NCRECR, which, more than a month ago, the manager here told us how they wanted to introduce the subscription. Wasn't there a subscription for the connected gas, and it was a tax exchange for Firtash, Ljovczyn? Here we want to change this situation, we want to change the NCRECR, the composition. And all those who are now critical, they want to do one thing -- leave it as it is all of these things, so that they are stricken, cumbersome mechanisms, we need to change it. And it takes political responsibility and political will to make such decisions. We can well water the rostrum with tears by telling how they feel about the people, but we must be responsible for reforming the country, and we must be responsible for the development of Ukraine’s European state. Stop dancing under a Moscow dude! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u64	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that, according to the Law, the Supreme Council is defined by the Competition Commission: one person is appointed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whose knowledge is the development of PEC, and the other by the Committee, whose knowledge belongs to housing and utilities. Colleagues, these are proposals from committees, not factions, I want to emphasize. And the committees that were formed by this Supreme Council have given us two candidates to vote on. By the way, what I'm saying is that human rights issues and determinations will be able to come back, if this decision goes away, I'm going to suggest that we go back to the last one. And two. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I've just made it clear that this is a legal right: a staff order. And I'm asking you to move on to making a decision right now. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission for the election of candidates for the National Commission for Energy and Utilities (number 6458). The committee offered to support the decision. So, please vote, please support 6458, support the ruling. Please take part in the vote and please vote. Vote, 6458, please. [[11:16:33]] For 184 184 – a.k.a. The decision is not made. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day, colleague, this is a block of questions. Now, colleagues, we're going to have a very responsible chapter -- that's putting the day session in order. Integrating into the agenda of the session: there are questions and national MPs, and those that have been submitted by the committee, and those that have been submitted by the President of Ukraine. Each of them has had a very big discussion, but now we're going to be able to quickly vote on them. Please prepare for the vote. From the first vote, we have the votes responsible. Thus, the first is the draft Act amending the master procedural code of Ukraine, the Civil, administrative judiciary of Ukraine and other legislative acts (6232 and 6232-1). Just getting into the daytime session, colleagues. Please vote. Please maintain the order of the day session, only the inclusion so that the committee can consider. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:18:06]] For 201 Next is a draft law amending article 540 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the enforcement of the decree of the income and assembly authorities or the court imposing a fine (6233). Nina Petrovna's committee. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, except for inclusion. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:18:47]] For 210 It's better if you put it back in here? It's getting closer. Let me re-enter the agenda of the 6233 session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:19:14]] For 208 Yeah, it's even smaller than 208. The decision is not taken. Next, a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to improve the organization of the National Anti-Corruption Agency (6335). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:19:47]] For 197 Decision taken. Colleagues, please, let's concentrate somehow. Let's do the following: draft Constitutional Conduct Act (6427 and 6427-1). I would very much urge you, colleagues, to support this bill because we are in the process of judicial reform, colleagues, we must move on to making decisions. And in this case, I just have a call to everybody right now: to vote and to support. The Prince is on the scene? Ruslan? Yes, colleagues, this is a very important bill. Let's focus as much as possible. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. And I'm voting on the draft Constitutional Conduct Act (6427 and 6427-1), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. I'm asking you to support everyone as much as possible. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:21:04]] For 208 208-yes. I'll do it again, Ruslan. Colleagues, okay, let's move on. The following is 6426: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (on the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to a constitutional complaint). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:21:41]] For 244 [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how the decision is made. [[B in m in s a l in]] The card didn't work. Okay, me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you got it, well, what's the problem? Excuse me? All right, colleagues, I'm calling off the previous vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the problem? All right, no problem. Copy that. A preliminary decision has been made. Let's move on to the next decision, colleague. I don't know what it's about. If the card doesn't work, the decision is made, you can add the application, and your vote will be counted. Next is a draft Act amending article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules (6281). Colleagues, this is a bill that deals with cancelling the break 12.00-12. 30. I'm asking all of you to take this initiative of committee heads, colleagues, in a similar way, to be supportive and friendly. Please vote. Please be supportive. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:23:13]] For-200 The decision is not made. I'll do it again, colleagues. Please include the factions. Colleagues, I'm going to put the vote again and ask for your support. Let's show that we're ready to work effectively and effectively. 6281 is the proposal of the committee heads only to be included in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:23:58]] For 202 The decision is not made. Next. 6424. Draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the protection of the rights of owners (users) of houses of residence (6424). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:24:37]] For 245 Decision taken. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Stability of Settlements in the Optova Power Market of Ukraine, 605. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[11:25:10]] For 211 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2017 on increasing expenditure, wages for employees of state-owned enterprises in the space sector, 5693. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:25:45.]] For 253 Decision taken. I'll put it in the end and come back. Now we're gonna go through, and then you're gonna tell me which ones to go back to, and I'm gonna go back to. Next, draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation, 6085. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:26:27]] For 261 Decision taken. The following is 6160: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Development of the Software Industry to develop three-year plans to support the development of the software industry. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:27:02]] For 252 Decision taken. The next is a draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (6194). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[11:27:36]] For 240 Decision taken. The next is the draft Act amending the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law (6283). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:28:03]] For 273 Decision taken. The next is the draft Act amending Chapter I, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Reducing the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market" (6382). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Please vote 6382. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:28:44]] For 260 Decision taken. Next is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation to improve investment opportunities in the field of electricity generation from alternative sources (6081 and 6081-1). Please vote. Vote. [[11:29:20]] For 276 Decision taken. The next is the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (6229). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. [[11:29:47]] For 259. Decision taken. And 6391 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act (6391 and 6391-1). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:30:23]] For 247 Decision taken. Colleagues! I want to call your attention now! We did not include important bills on judicial reform. We can't stop court reform, colleagues. This will be the worst service we have today for the Ukrainian state, for our reform. Yesterday at this rostrum, the Attorney General said that often the judges of corruption are a clot of justice and justice in Ukraine. Colleagues, we're only giving it a chance today, and we're putting in the agenda of the day's session a bill on the Constitutional Court, which lacks three votes! I ask you, regardless of flags, from the political parties to support constitutional reform and judicial reform in Ukraine. Now we've had political consultations. I'll be right back and we'll put it to the vote again. Colleagues, I will now propose to reintroduce to the agenda the draft Constitutional Conduct Act (6427 and 6427-1). And I'm going to ask everyone to mobilize, so I'm going to put it in. Political consultations took place. Arthur, please come to me. Colleagues, well, this is a common practice, which is what you say, it's a public thing, when I agree with each other, it's not one of them. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility, and I'm voting once again on the proposal of laws on judicial reform. I would like to support the inclusion of the daily session of the draft Constitutional Conduct Act (6427 and 6427-1), colleagues. I ask you all to support and I ask you to vote responsibly, my friends, and considerately. I'm asking everyone to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote! Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:33:32]] For 217 I'll put it again, colleagues. 217. My colleagues, I'll put it again, let's mobilize as much as possible. I see the MPs are just walking around the hall. Once again, I propose that the draft Law on Constitutional Conduct be put into the agenda of the day session. And I ask everyone to support 6427 and 6427-1. Please, I see they're coming in, take up jobs. And I ask you to vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:34:29]] For 214 What else is the insistence on? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, I don't have his name yet. Colleagues, I'm going to put two more bills out of this block, and I'm going to put 6232 more in the agenda of the day session, and whoever supports it, please vote. And 6232-1, please vote. Please vote, colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda of the 6232 session. [[11:35:22]] For 217 And the last. This is 6233: a draft law amending article 540 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the enforcement of an income and assembly order or a court imposing a fine (6233). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please support 6233. Please vote. [[11:35:59]] For 226 Decision taken. And, colleagues. Colleagues, and I, I'm going to put the vote on the agenda for the 5491-1 session, which is the return to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Saving Ukrainians. [[B in m in s a l in]] 5495: Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal export of unprocessed timber. 5495, scheduled for the day session. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Please support and vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:37:10]] For 278 And, colleagues, we had an agreement that judicial reform would be supported if this law was upheld. And I put the last vote: 6427 and 6427-1. The final vote, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Constitutional Conduct Act. These were political arrangements, they're just implemented. And I'm putting the agenda of the day session 6427 and 6427-1: draft Constitutional Conduct Act. Please support, please vote, vote, please support. [[11:37:58]] For 215 No voices. Colleagues, I'm on my way to the Presidium. Now, 6005. What is 6005? They tell me that. It's been over 6005, hasn't it? It's gone. What's the problem? Colleagues, it's passed, colleagues, I'm sorry. It didn't work. Okay, I'm going to put 6005 again -- the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to stabilize calculations in the U.S. electricity market. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote, please vote. [[11:38:57]] For 236 We've got a day-to-day session in place, colleagues. Now we have a statement from two factions for a break -- this is from the Peter Prashenko faction and the People's Front -- they agreed to take a break. And since the speech will refer to the release of Ukrainian hostages and will report to Irina Heratchenko, I think no one will object if I give her a little more time and five minutes to perform. I don't think there's gonna be any objection. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u65	Thank you very much, Your Honor, allow me to draw your attention to two key points concerning the release of Ukrainian hostages. Today, World Children’s Missing Persons Day is celebrated, and the Ukrainian side insists that a mechanism be set up with the participation of the International Committee of the Red Cross, which would also be able to join the search for missing missing persons in the occupied territory. The Russian Federation categorically refused yesterday in Minsk during the negotiations to provide its experts with the machinery. I mean, we get back to the humanitarian, so-called, convoys, where they work on Donbas, more loyally, killed by the Russian military, but experts at the International Committee of the Red Cross don't give. And I want to ask international journalists to bring this information to Russian society that the Kremlin and Putin don't want to find their boys who they send to Donbas to fight and kill. And when they die, Russia doesn't want to find them. Now information about the release of hostages is very important. The Ukrainian side has done a great deal of verification work for those who, under fear, are better off in a Ukrainian prison, but do not want to return to occupied areas. And I also want to thank the Office of the Supreme Council of Mrs. Lutkowski very much for this work. And we reported that 37 prisons had been visited and that this verification had been carried out. Imagine that Russia and the representatives of the ORDO and the ORLO today require Ukraine to verify those people who are already at large, sorry, but this is not a census of the Ukrainian population. And so I would like to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine if you and I, together with the public organizations, could share a position with the OSCE, where we have once again stressed that Ukraine has completed the verification procedure. We conducted it in accordance with the high standards of international humanitarian law and Ukrainian legislation. And there is no reason to force Ukraine to violate international humanitarian standards and catch people on the streets who are being questioned. I would also like to inform you that yesterday, Mrs. Lutkovska, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council in Minsk, made a request to visit prisons in occupied areas. Because, first of all, there are thousands of those who committed crimes and on whom sentences were passed before the conflict in Donbassa, and these are Ukrainian citizens, and we have to understand the conditions under which they are held. But the key is that our hostages, who we're fighting for, are kept there. And here's the Russian Federation and the other side refused to grant the Ukrainian Commissioner. On what basis? They said that an ombudsman of the so-called DNR had already given an appropriate mandate to a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Imagine what is being said. What's very important is that the Ukrainian side is ready for the widest compromise to free the hostages. We're willing to pardon where Ukrainian legislation allows, a few hundred people to transfer them under the release procedure for the release of Ukrainian hostages. But never will Ukraine agree to the blackmail that the Russian Federation now imposes on us, as well as the ODR and ORLO under their control, when they, you know, include them in the hostage release lists? The Berkuts who killed our heroes at the Maidan terrorist attack in Odessa and Kharkiv, these criminals are supposed to be in prison, and they have nothing to do with the Donbas conflict, and there are also dozens of people who are required to be released, who are simply murderers -- killed their wife in Zaporozhye, killed their friend in Winnitza, and require us to release them. Obviously, the mine process is not a bench for the release of all criminals, and we can go to the widest compromise here, but as part of the mine process. What does the Ukrainian side stand for? First. We demand the release of 128 Ukrainian citizens held in occupied territory. And today we're going to hand over this OSCE list again, demanding that we give us complete information, where these people are and what their fate is, and what their release list is. I'm informing you that Igor Kozlowski is on this list, and there are all of our military heroes who have been held for more than two years in the Makiyiv Colony and who are constantly asked about here by the boys, these are also Gerasimenko, Lazarenko, Glondar, all our other heroes, Morozov, Oilynik, all of them. In fact, we are also fighting to have civilians involved, who are also being held in occupied areas. Instead, we are ready to transfer those where Ukrainian legislation allows it and where it is a conflict at Donbassa, but it can't be about those who have nothing to do with it. And the last. I want to inform you that yesterday both representatives of the so-called ORDO and the ORLO, and the Russian Federation, in a totally blackmailing manner, demanded from Ukraine that "we will only be released when the Ukrainian Parliament has voted on the amnesty law." We want to say that amnesty will be implemented by the law of Ukraine and by the name of Ukraine, not by sugar and flesh. That's why we're asking the world community, and primarily the Russian Federation, to abolish all pseudo-institutions of power in so-called republics, and so all these sugars and carpentry just stop the abuse of Ukraine. After demilitarization, after the invasion, amnesty is possible. Thank you. Thank you for your attention. And I hope that Ukraine will do everything in its power to get us released in June. If that is not the case, full responsibility will be placed on the Kremlin, Moscow, Russia, and their puppets, and the ORLO.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Limited and Additional Responsibilities Act (4666). Fellows, there's a lot of lines here. And I'm going to ask. No, we're not voting for a break, we're not voting for a break, we're not voting for a break. Let us turn to the consideration of this law. 4666: draft of the Limited and Additional Responsibilities Act. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. We'll take a break, we'll continue after the break. We can, we can break up for a break, and then we can move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, listen to me carefully. We'll start the discussion now. At 12 o'clock we'll take a break and continue after the break. Other mechanisms I don't know or see for consideration, so that's what it is. That's how we did it with the Constitutional Court. And then we're going to mobilize people after the break and support the one of the most progressive laws of today that Andri Volodymyrovich has prepared for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u67	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u68	What difference does it make, colleagues, explain it to me. I don't understand logic. Andrew Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u69	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u70	Of course. It's okay. Andrew Volodymyrovich, do not tear down the planned and successful meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite you to the report by Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? Here comes Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Bill 4666, which regulates the activities of limited liability societies and associations with additional responsibilities, is brought to your attention. I would like to say why such a bill is important. A society with limited responsibility is the most widespread form of business in our country. More than 500,000 companies are organized in the form of limited liability societies, but the activities of societies are governed by the Law on Economic Societies, the Civil Code, the Code of Hostages. Often, the standards of these laws that work contradict each other and are fragmented. So we set ourselves a very ambitious goal a year and a half ago, and I thank all the MPs who joined the bill, all the experts, the leading legal companies, the international organizations. I'm sorry, Mrs. Zalitschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u72	Go back to the rostrum, Andry Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u73	And we're a year and a half. I'll tell you, I don't remember long ago there being such fruitful cooperation on any other law. After ten hours, consultations were held, round tables. And we've practically reached consensus in these, almost a year of discussions. The bill does not satisfy 100 percent there, for example, personally my wishes, my ambitions and my desire to lead the best legal practice in the world. But on the basis of the compromise between all factions and groups, we reached consensus between all experts, legal professionals and corporate law. And this is a compromise, Mr. Head. Even this morning, despite the fact that the bill had already been introduced to the second reading, and the table was introduced in the hall, even this morning we held meetings and took into account the wishes of our colleagues, even more to achieve certain compromises and consensus in order to ensure effective voting and adoption of such an important reforming European law in general. I wouldn't want to stop at certain standards. I think we'll be able to stop at the repairs after the break. But I just want to say a few political statements. There's been a lot of innuendo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u74	Please 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u75	It's all the same, isn't it? All equal before the Head of the Supreme Council. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u76	All are equal before God.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u77	Yeah. So, the honourable representatives of all the MPs and groups, I'm very much asking you to support Bill 4666 and really get into the history of what we're going to form a new corporate law. Ukrainian businessmen will not have to go abroad to structure their business. The law has the most dispossessive standards. We will allow the founders of societies with limited responsibility to write their own business constitution for themselves, for their children and for their grandchildren.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u78	Thank you. We all have a chance to get into history today. Stay in the rostrum, Andry Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, this is what our job will look like. We're just starting to go after the repairs. At 12 o'clock, we'll call it a break. And after the break, we'll continue our work as amended. But come on now, Andrew Volodymyrovich, we'll be there in a minute. And we're moving on to the amendments. And please, Mrs. Irina, call the amendments that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u79	Thank you. We're working, dear fellows. First amendment, Captain. He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u80	Thank you. I'd like to dedicate, first of all, to my speech, now to our order of consideration of the bill. The table, the updated table, after voting by the committee today from the morning of the new amendments and even the new editions, we got literally 20 minutes ago. So first of all, I'm asking you not to rush into consideration so that we can clearly go after the amendment, so that we can read these amendments, because many of them, once again, are accepted this morning. This is a violation of the Rules, and as an MP, I was unable to get acquainted with these amendments. The second question is also technical. Line 338 of the table, where Mr. Ivanchuk is amended, does not contain the amendment number. So I don't know how, for example, I want to raise it now if we get to this line, how do I raise this question. I'm also technically asking the Head to determine how I can identify this particular amendment, because it's also principled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u81	I have a suggestion that we are now moving on to the amendments, and in the break, in the break, we can work on these documents. It's just that the committee's over. I ask you to return the head of the committee to the rostrum. During the break, the committee head will be able to work with tables, with interested deputies. Mrs. Olena, do you insist on voting? It's just you. All of it! Let's move on. Correction number. 5th, Bird. Don't insist. Seventh, Semenha. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u82	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, what's the point of this? An amendment aimed at dividing the responsibility of a society with limited liability and guidance on debts. What does that mean? As a general rule, society itself will be responsible for its own obligations, but in exceptional, legally established cases. Subsidically, the company's top managers will also be responsible for the company's debts. In fact, it's a common European practice. In particular, it is a case where the company was declared bankrupt because the top managers, knowing that the company's financial situation had deteriorated significantly, did not initiate a general meeting at the right time to decide whether to take action to improve the company financially. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u83	The 7th amendment, which was rejected by the committee, is put to the vote. Please, colleagues, make up your mind. Committee head, please take your seat. The committee head may take the floor, perhaps not take the floor. [[11:55:04]] For 114 Not supported. The committee head should be in the rostrum. Mr. Ivanchuk, I urge you to come back to your workplace and be there for a break. He may not comment on the revisions. He may not comment on the revisions. He may not comment. The committee decided, he turned it down. I said it. Let's move on. 8 repairs, Captain. Is he insisting? Again? Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Helena, 4th, please, 4th. Mrs. Sotnik, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u84	Yes, thank you, I insist. The amendment suggests changing the words "corporative rights" to "part". And this is based on corporate rights coming out of ownership of a portion in statutory capital. So this is the primary part right over here. And in order to have corporate rights, the state has to have a share in statutory capital. Accordingly, the wording proposed today is not valid from a legal point of view. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u85	Please, Amendment No.4 rejected by the committee. Mrs. Botnik is asking her to support her. Please vote. [[11:56:24]] For 115 115 deputies. The next amendment, Mrs. Captain, is the 8th. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u86	Thank you very much. I propose here, in Article 4, “Participants of the Society” to change the wording “the number of members of the Society is unlimited” to “the maximum number of members of the Society can reach 100. ” This is also a fundamental issue. Because companies with limited responsibility, in which, for example, 900 or a thousand participants from a technical point of view, first of all, corporate governance must be absolutely responsible then, as in stockholder societies, voting, holding meetings of this number of participants technically is also unrealistic under the bill. Now, from the point of view of the risk of raiding. It's a key risk for raiding because it allows particle blurring, and the minority members of a limited liability society will be absolutely at risk of losing any right to property in the statutory capital of societies. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u87	Please amend number 8 of the Stonik People's Deputy, who was rejected by the committee. Mrs. Helen's asking for her support. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee head can comment at the end, he will comment on everything we accept. [[11:57:52]] For 111 111, Mrs. Helen. You haven't been corrected. 9th. Mrs. Bird. Don't insist. 10th, Semenha. Don't insist. Thank you. 11th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please, Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u88	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I would like to point out that sometimes it is very difficult for us to set up a work that is in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's regulations. You know, it would be very easy to do something: we could announce a break 15 minutes early, people would take a break and look at this table that was just distributed, and then we could look at this bill in a professional way. And it would be very simple. I don’t understand why they didn’t go in the same way, and now I’m looking at a chart that just showed up. Well, as always. As far as I'm concerned, it's a matter of fact. It is appropriate to provide for the rights of members of the association to provide for the right, in this provision, to provide for the right to receive the profits of an enterprise, not just to participate in its distribution. I would like to add a paragraph where the following rights of the members of the association are listed, add the "get dividends" item, not only participating in the distribution of the income of the society, but also receiving dividends. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u89	Thank you. I want to give my word to the committee head. To emphasize that, according to the Rules, we have a break of 12 hours, and the Presidium will follow, Mr. Levchenko, the Rules, and in just two minutes, you will be able to talk on the table, as we agreed, with the honourable chairman of the committee. Please have your word, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, and then we will vote in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u90	Mr. Levchenko, we don't mind your correction, we rejected it just because dividends are included in article 29, look. In our 29th article, we foresaw it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u91	The position is clear. Please vote in favour of Amendment 11. The committee rejected it, but it is not against this amendment, the room is defined, please. Because it's already included in the 29th, as Mr. Ivanchuk tells us. [[12:00:04]] For-94 The last one. Dear colleagues, we have 12 hours. I'm calling it a break. Everyone who wants to work on it. Once again to see the table and walk on it with the head of the committee, it's your chance. At 12:30, we meet and continue to work on the amendments to Bill 4666 to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we're going back to work. And we're continuing to work with you on Bill 4666: about societies with limited and additional responsibilities that we're considering in our second reading. I'm asking for a rostrum head or a representative of the Committee on Economic Policy, and we're going to move on the table right now. As we agreed, during the intermission of the MPs, we had the opportunity to take a closer look at the committee's position on the amendments that came a few hundred years before this bill, and we will move on to this bill. Dear colleagues, there are a lot of amendments for confirmation. I have a proposal for us to now go through the rejected amendments, and then we'll go after the confirmed ones, the confirmed ones. Okay? I'm asking for confirmation, if anyone else wants to add anything, pass it on to the presidency. And so far, we're moving on the reverse. Sotnik's microphone, please, because I can't hear what Mrs. Sotnik is saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u93	Dear Mrs. Head, I'm simply asking, according to the Rules, to allow the numbers to sound, because I will not be able to prepare you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u94	We're waiting for the reporter. Please, I ask the head of the Economic Policy Committee to return to the rostrum. Let's keep moving. Okay? I'm asking you to come up to the rostrum. Mr. Andrey, we're waiting for you. You're running? Come on. Run slowly. Sir, Andrew, there's a lot on hold right now, I think, Mrs. Olona, we're going to end up putting everyone on the stand. You just dictate, we'll all come back to everybody. As long as we go after the downsides. The last rejected amendment that we considered was the 11th National Deputy Levchenk. Let's move on: 12th, Solvar. Don't insist. S.L.A., more loyal. 14th, Rybchin. Microphone, please. Then we'll go back to everyone, I remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u95	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear citizens, this is really a bill, the idea of a bill, I think it's a reform. However, many things have been burned with amendments, and the fate of this bill will depend on how the amendments are made. My 14th amendment refers to article 6, “The Obligations of the Fellows. ” And I suggest that the members of the association be given complete and reliable information in the creation of society, and in the case of incomplete or unreliable data, the participants should be held accountable to the society for the damage caused by such acts. That is, when contributing to statutory capital, participants should provide such information as the way in which funds and property were received regarding the Ukrainian bill, including the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Laundering of Income and Costs. This thus makes it impossible for society to be arrested in connection with, for example, a criminal case against a participant. This protects the rights of conscientious participants. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u96	Let's put it to a vote. Committee position: reject. Please put to the vote the 14th amendment, the national deputy Rybchin. Please make up your mind. [[12:40:05]] For-66 Not including your amendment, moving on. 15th, Solvar. No, it doesn't. 16th, Bird. Don't insist. 19th, Levenchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u97	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Proposals for a bill on a cooperative agreement should be complemented with provisions to prioritize between the statute and the cooperative agreement, since their positions may conflict with each other. In view of the fact that a charter is established by the Society, it is appropriate to establish that a corporate contract is a free agreement between all or more members of the Society on the specificities of the rights and obligations of members of the Society in accordance with the statute of association. So it's about making the statute, of course, a higher level of document than the corresponding corporate contract. And so it's just proposed to add to the definition of the term "corporative agreement", it's proposed to add a half sentence at the end that a corporate agreement is formed, signed in order and within the limits defined by the statute of society, so that there is no objection to the statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u98	Thank you. We're putting to the vote amendment number 19 of People's Deputies Lewchenk. I propose that the chairman of the committee then sum up all the amendments and there will be a lot of questions for you, dear fellow, about the amendments that require confirmation. [[12:41:39]] For-47 Thank you. 19th, 19. No 19 amendments, 47 votes. Let's move on, dear fellows. People's Deputy Birddog, 25th. Don't insist. 27th, Bird. Don't insist. 28th. Don't insist on the bird. 32nd Sabashuk. Don't insist. 35th, Bird. Don't insist. Rybchin, 37th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u99	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. My amendment 37 refers to the moment when the association is formed, the bill stipulates that both funds and other assets can be invested in statutory capital. This is what is considered appropriate in the case of a founding agreement to establish the conditions for non-money deposits. This is not detailed in the bill. And this could be, for example, a land plot or some other thing, and you have to figure out how it's going to be evaluated, how it's going to be measured, how it's going to be valued, how it's going to be evaluated, how it's going to be evaluated if the participant decides to step out of society. So this is in line with part two of article 12, to be accepted in the first reading, so I would like to detail the very non-money contribution in the case of the establishment of a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u100	Please, Mr. Ivanchuk, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u101	Mr. Rybchin, really a non-profit contribution, but he is settled in part two of article 13. We settled the money in the 13th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u102	Let's put to the vote the amendment that was rejected by the committee, the national deputy Rybchin, 37th. I would like to point out that the chairman of the committee said that this position was included in another article. Please make up your mind. [[12:43:37]] For-50 50 votes. Not supported. 39th, Rybchin. He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u103	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. This is a very simple amendment that says that the treaty of founding is concluded and signed by all participants and certified notably. This standard is called upon to protect the rights of all members of the association. It is stated that the association agreement is signed by all participants. Similarly, in order to protect the rights of participants, it is necessary to make these agreements in notary form, once again, in order to protect the people, so that any decisions can then be brought in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u104	Mr. Ryabchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u105	Dear colleague, we're putting to the vote Amendment 39 of People's Deputies Rybchin. Please support me. There's a comment, there's a comment. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u106	Yeah, absolutely. If the participants want to, they can give a notary certificate, it's provided for in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u107	Thank you for your clear comment. Please, the national deputy Ryabchin asks to vote on his 39 amendment, which was rejected by the committee. Please make up your mind. [[12:45:06]] For-50 50 votes. You're not getting your amendment. Rybchin, 48th. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 49th, Rybchin. Don't you insist? Thank you. Let's move on. Sabashuk, 55th. Don't insist. 75th, Olena Sotnik. Olena Sotnik, National Deputy Sotnik. 75th. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u108	I'll ask 71 first. an amendment, sorry, which refers to the overwhelming right of redemption of a member of the association.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u109	'60s counted! And 71st, I've written "partially counted," and I want to point out that the editorial takes into account some of the key points that I wanted to point out in my amendment, particularly the explicit introduction of a 30-day period. That's the first one. And secondly, if there's no contract, maybe there's a possibility of a lawsuit through the courts -- that's all that's taken into account. That's why I'm going to call in my amendment. Please put her to the vote in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, according to Mrs. Stotnik's insistence, an amendment that was only partially counted, 71st. 71st. Captain. Partially counted. Please vote, she insists that it be taken into account in full. Please identify yourself. [[12:46:55]] For-81 Eighty-one deputies have supported her, she's not passing. 53rd, we missed the amendment of the People's Deputy Rybchin, which was rejected. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u111	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. The paper makes it impossible to do that when statutory capital is essentially a nice bubble. It is proposed to set limits on non - monetary contributions to statutory capital, and participants cannot contribute to statutory services or jobs provided or performed in the interests of society or account for their own. and the establishment of a society as a contribution. If the property is made, it should not be burdened, for example, in a bank mortgage. And if there's such a problem, all the participants should be informed about it. So this is a continuation of the idea of a intangible contribution that is in part part two of article 12. Please put it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u112	Please vote for Mr. Rybkin's amendment, which was rejected by the committee. Hall, identify yourself, please. [[12:48:06]] For-59 He doesn't get the votes he needs. National MP Lewchenko, whose 67th amendment is edited, insists that it is not taken into account in an editorial way. Please, his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u113	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In fact, the amendment is completely out of the question, and they basically left it in the same way that it was before I made it. The point is that in part four of article 18, it is advisable to allow the creditor to enter into an agreement with the company on other means of protecting it if the decision to reduce statutory capital is made, rather than those directly mentioned in that part. The point is that the bill now provides for the enforcement of obligations through the conclusion of a security contract, that is, an exclusive security contract. And I would like to add the words: Or other means of protecting the performance of the obligation. That is, there can be not only a security agreement but also other means of protection. So please support my amendment in this way in order to prevent fraud around the issue of loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u114	Please, Mr. Ivanchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u115	Mr. Yuri, we fully support it, but look at the way we put it. We wrote: making another agreement with the creditor is a broader concept. What you're saying is it could be inside, it's another agreement with the creditor. We predicted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u116	Please vote for the 67th amendment, which is dealt with editorially, but Deputy Levchenko insists on a different edition. [[12:49:51]] For-72 Your amendment is not supported. Please, 75th People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 79th. Don't insist, Mrs. Helena. Thank you, Mrs. Olena. The '90s. What's that? 81st. Oh, I'm sorry, she's not just stressed. 81st People's Deputies, Olena Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Oleni's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u117	The amendment refers to a case in which a participant is effectively excluded from the association in a court of law. And in this case, and the bill that the committee considers, it actually doesn't provide any guarantee that they're even counting with such a participant. So I'm proposing an existing practice in existing legislation that if such an action is made to exclude a member from the association, there should be an appropriate size for the deposit of the court, guaranteed the size of that portion in monetary form. So at least we ensure that if the participant is expelled, he is clearly counted with him. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u118	Please, Andrew Ivanchuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u119	Mrs. Olena, come on, we are. Look at us, anyway. I think we've taken your point, why? We wrote first that the primary right of the participant has to be acquired. The second rule that we've written is that it's decided in a court of law. And the third is that we went back one year to make it go away. It's a European norm. We think we did what you wanted to do, we protected it, we just wrote another part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u120	Please put to the vote 81 amendments Mrs. Stotnik on whom she insists, dear colleagues. Please identify yourself. [[12:51:54]] Z-87 Doesn't get the required number of votes, Mrs. Helen, your amendment. Abdullin didn't make it, so he won't. The '90s. You insist. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u121	Yeah, 90th. Here I propose to complete article 20 of the bill that the agreement on the alienation of a portion of the statutory capital of the society is subject to notarial certification. Let me explain why. We recently passed a law, and it has already become effective, especially as I am the author of this law, where the beginnings are no longer in principle mandatory. However, the establishment at the legislative level of a clear requirement for the form of a corresponding right will also contribute to ensuring the right of the parties to the right, the permanent circulation and the formation of a single jurisprudence. And in this way, we're more protective of the members of the society.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u122	to the vote on the amendment. Andrew Ivanchuk wants to comment. Please, microphone to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u123	Ms. Olena, you said correctly, in the amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, we saw this coming. Therefore, there is no point in writing this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u124	Let's put to the vote Amendment No. 90 of the People's Deputy, Elena Sotnik. Please identify yourself. [[12:53:20]] For-90 He doesn't get the required number of votes. Next, 91st. Mrs. Sotnik's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u125	The amendment is logically coming out of the previous one. But it also applies to the establishment at the legislative level of the transfer of ownership to a share in the statutory capital of society. Why is this necessary? We need to clearly define this point in legislation so that there are no questions about the possibility of abuse, for example, that the previous participant has acted. Or decisions were made when a treaty was actually concluded with the help of a previous participant who had made the agreement. So in order to clearly establish and warn any abuse of this issue, the moment of acquisition of ownership, as in many other rights, must be defined in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Please, Mr. Ivanchuk's microphone and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u127	Dear Mrs. Sotnik, I fully support you. But the philosophy of this bill, and you know, I was on top of it, the maximum dissatisfaction of norms. I don't want us to regulate it by law. We've changed the philosophy of legal activity in general. The maximum dissatisfaction will allow participants to solve all these questions themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, 91 amendments are made to the vote, Your Honor. Please make up your mind. [[12:55:04]] For-75
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u129	75. The decision is not taken. Next, 92nd. People's MP Musak. Don't insist. 94th, Bird. Don't insist. 96th, 97th. Don't insist. 99th, Bird. Don't insist. 101st. Don't insist. 103rd. Don't insist. 105, amendment 105. Please, Cooper. Don't scream. Cooper, 105.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u130	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear colleagues, the 105 amendment actually sounds like a charter of association can provide for the forfeiture of the heir’s right. And there's a big manipulation from the committee, because the amendment is to be completed with article 22.1, and actually the text, half of the text of the amendment was made in article 24. It is impossible for law to deprive an heir of the right to inherit an inheritance. But at the same time, in the wording that was adopted in the first reading, it is also impossible to leave that "the heir of the participant can join the association with the unanimous consent of the other participants." My offer. Put on confirmation, realizing that she would not get the appropriate number of votes, and leave only the first part that "in the event of the death or termination of a member of the association, part goes to his heir or successor," and set the point. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u131	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u132	It's impossible to do that because in the first reading, we can't throw that formula out of the body of the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u133	Well, you didn't make that amendment, so we can't count it. Well, according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u134	Colleagues, I understand we've agreed that we'll end up in the end for confirmation. Andrew Volodymyrovich? Now, right? Then I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 105.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u135	No, no, it's in the body of the law, it's not an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u136	Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The committee is asking to support 105 amendments. Please vote in favour of 105 amendments. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. [[12:57:54]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 107th, Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u137	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Colleagues, this refers to exactly 105 revisions that we have failed. I propose a decision to vote in favour of 107 my amendment, which is edited, but now it's lost because of the failed 105. What I'm saying is, "In the event of the death of the participant, his share passes to the heirs, unless otherwise stipulated by the statute," is a dot. I mean, if people have decided in the charter and prescribed how an inheritance is prescribed, that's how it's regulated, and so in the event of a participant's death, the share goes to the heir," and all, the point is, you don't have to invent any other things. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I understand there was an agreement in the hall that we were going after the rejected and then the confirmed amendments, and that was, as I understand it. The agreement of the entire hall. So let's go like this: first the ones that are rejected and then the ones that are confirmed. Do you have a deal? Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u139	Dear friends! All the legal professionals in this room demanded that the word "one." We're protecting the heirs, we're in the right column, Mrs. Stotnik, so we all agreed that we should write it as in the right column, that "in the event of the death or termination of a member of the society, part goes to his heir or successor." We haven't made a liberal norm why I throw her out, it's the position of all the lawyers in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u140	Please, which way? Please, who will I give it to? Did you mention that you insulted Olenna Sotnik? Andrew Volodymyrovich, did you say that you insulted Olena Sotnik? You insulted Olenna Sotnik. Please, Oleni Captain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u141	Thank you very much. The question is that the committee head appealed to me as a person that we agreed to an editorial, in fact, what the committee had accepted this morning with those who were making the amendments disagreed. And our key task, our key principle in no way can we limit the rights of heirs, including what Mr. Rybchin has stated, even in the statute, cannot be limited to the rights of heirs. Because this is their legal right as guaranteed by the Special Heritage Law. So the only thing we can do is clearly cut, that the right of ownership and the transfer of ownership is guaranteed by law -- dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u142	Then I'll read it under the transcript as head of the committee. We'll put it in the text that the law is guaranteed by the Inheritance Act. Helen, yes, under the transcript, did I say? Law, law, everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u143	Colleagues, attention, before voting, as always, the chairman of the committee will report all the amendments proposed by the hall, which are unifying. I urge you once again to work for those who are rejected and then for those who are confirmed. And I'm asking you to work harder. So, colleagues, 116th, Lechchenko. Don't insist. He insists. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u144	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Part of the first article of chapter III of the bill is to be supplemented by provisions regarding the expiration date of a member of a company whose share of the company’s fixed capital is less than 50 percent. The point is that the bill states that a member of a society whose share of the statutory capital is less than 50 percent can at any time step out of society without the consent of the other participants, unless otherwise provided by the statute. It is appropriate, absolutely logical to add a minimum time for a message, so that it is not just from today to tomorrow. I propose that in five days there be a minimum time limit for the message to the actual exit. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u145	Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u146	Mr. Yuri, Mr. Yuri, Mr. Yuri. Oh, you do. See, instead of informing the members of the law, we foresaw that a declaration was made to the registrar on the way out. We refused to report the participants, we wrote that they were reported to the registrar, the registrar.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u147	Do you insist on voting? I am putting to the vote the amendment of 116 national MP Levchenk, who supports it (the committee rejected it), please vote. [[13:03:15]] For-75 75-yes. The decision is not made. 108th, Ostrikova. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I want to go back to all the amendments that apply to inheritance. In case a member of the Society dies and there are heirs, by law, or by will. These are the amendments from 105 to 112 included. And right on 105, I'm asking you to go back to it, it's marked by a very large revision and a complement to article 22.1, but in the right. it's spelled "accounted for," but the right column says the right thing "in the event of the death or termination of a member of the association, the share goes to his heir or successor." And that's where you have to put the dot, dot. Any law, put a dot. And any article 22 marked "prim" does not accept, as noted in the 105th amendment, Ivanchuk, which is listed as being counted. One simple sentence. Because this law can be overturned by the fact that things are not properly prescribed by inheritance. And that puts it at risk because we know that big money is going to kill people, take particles, raid cases -- that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u149	We will return to the amendments before the vote. So here's the thing: 119th, Captain. Don't insist. 121st. He insists, doesn't he? 119th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u150	Once again, in the order of conduct. I point out to the chairman that line 133 does not contain the amendment number, which is Denisenko, the so-called additional amendment, which is not foreseen, by the way, by the Rules. I'm asking that it be considered as the 133rd line. And then it's also going to be put on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u151	119th, do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Please move on: 121st, Semenha. Don't insist. 122nd, Captain. Don't insist. A hundred. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u152	122nd, 122nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u153	122nd. Well, I'm asking, is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u154	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u155	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u156	122 amendments apply to the order of the valuation of property, and it is important that property be evaluated according to the law by licensing organizations and that it is at least clearly defined in legislation. Therefore, I propose that the valuation of property can be carried out solely by evaluation entities, recognized by legislation on property valuation, property rights and professional evaluation activities in Ukraine. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u157	Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u158	Ms. Helen, look, if we even hand over the evaluation activity to the licensees, it doesn't give us any guarantees. But we wrote in the law that if the participants wanted to, they would write that grade in the charter. Okay, well, that doesn't give us any guarantees, what you're suggesting, so we rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u159	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of the 122 people's deputies, Captain. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:07:00]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next, 128th, Semenha. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u160	Semenha, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, the law refers to the determination of the content, grounds, and judicial procedure of disfellowshipping a member. The expulsion of a member of a judicial society takes place in international practice and may be followed by a court decision in the event of unlawful acts to the detriment of society. The amendment foresees that the exclusion of a member of the association is a sanction, a form of responsibility for failure or improper performance by the parties to their obligations provided for by law and by establishing documents. This exclusion is permitted only if the action of the participant is guilty. There must be a general principle, the responsibility arises only for the existence of guilt. Exclusion is also possible when a participant interferes with his or her actions or significantly complicates the achievement of his or her goals. Therefore, I would like to support an amendment that regulates the exclusion procedure of a member of the association if its actions are unconscionable. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u161	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u162	Mr. Semenha, well, we've been talking about this a long time. And we've come to the conclusion that we've left the only reason in this law is that it's just a matter of harm to society. Because everything else will be subjective. I'm asking you very much to support this as we said in the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u163	Do you insist on voting? I bet on the vote amendment of 128 People's Deputies of Semimenha. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:08:48]] For-75 75-yes. The decision is not made. Next: 137th, Sabashuk. Don't insist. 140th, Sabashuk. Don't insist. 148th, Semenha. You insist, don't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the bill is aimed at non-admission after the adoption of the bill, one of the most frequent violations of the rights of members of the household, namely the violation of the right to receive dividends. In fact, it is today a matter of protecting the rights of the minority, for today, in the text proposed by the bill, it is binding only on the time after the decision of the congregations. In fact, the payment of dividends today depends on the decision of the congregations. Therefore, my law obliges me to make such decisions in the congregations that, to my deep conviction, it will protect the very interests of the minority — those involved in societies that do not have a significant impact on decision - making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u165	Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u166	In fact, the committee supports Mr. Semenha, your logic. But according to Minust’s form, he was definitely against it because the notary does not have the tools to verify whether or not there is a debt. And Minust said that they would not be able to implement this, this norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u167	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 148 people's deputies of Semimenha. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:10:31]] For-90 The decision is not made. 150th. Don't insist. 161. Don't insist. 180th. Sabashuk. Don't insist. 185th. Ribchin. Don't insist. 186. Voropeyes. Don't insist. 191st. Don't insist. 195th. The centurion insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u168	Thank you. This amendment refers to article 35, which defines the decision-making of the general meeting of the participants. In fact, I understand, on the one hand, that the developers wanted, by increasing this qualified number of votes, to allow minority shareholders to somehow influence decision-making. But from the point of view of corporate governance, it kind of limits the dispossibility, because, in fact, the decisions you've determined where three quarters of the votes should be taken are even more severe than, for example, in stockholder societies. There is no such requirement for such decisions. That's the first one. And secondly, I don't see that much need, enough votes on that issue. They are not urgent and critical to society. I suggest, if you're talking about liberalisation, still be logical and follow the liberal principles of corporate governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u169	Short.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u170	There was such a discussion, Mrs. Olena. But both the IMF and the European Commission asked them to increase the number of issues that are accepted by a qualified majority. Well, they say it's the world's normal practice. If we don't see it in the law, they might write, they might not write, the dispossibility is preserved.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u171	I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of 195 People's Deputies Stotnik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:12:48]] For-88 The decision is not made. Next. 198. He insists. Please, Captain. Turn on the Captain microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u172	See, now this also applies to the order in which decisions are made by societies, just another list of these decisions that are proposed to be taken only unanimously. For example, even from a technical point of view, the organization of general congregations is generally unrealistic. The law already lays down the question of where the unity of the decisions of all the members of the congregations should be. I don't think it's appropriate to do that anymore. Still, it is right that three quarters of the votes should be taken. This ensures enough that almost the majority there, the vast majority, more specifically, have taken part in a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u173	Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Stotnik, for saying that. And Mrs. Kugel heard it, which tells me that I'm very bad at protecting the minority. Mrs. Cugel, the minoritarium forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u175	So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 198th People's Deputies of the Sotnik. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:14:27]] For-92 The decision is not made. Next 202. Don't insist. Yeah, 207th. Don't insist. 209th. He insists. Please, Captain, 209.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u176	Thank you. 209, the amendment, here in particular, concerns me that the question of the moment when, for example, one of the members of the association died while his successors were being introduced and actually their participation as full participants, this moment is so temporary and very dangerous when societies are sometimes abused. And other participants abuse and start or alienate the property of society, or somehow change the governing bodies. Therefore, my amendment refers to the fact that no decision is taken as long as the succession takes place regarding significant rights and rights of interest. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u177	Laconic maximum, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u178	That's absolutely right, Mrs. Helena. But from the point of view of law, even if the participant died, at this point his voices must all be taken into account and they will be counted by those who manage his share.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u179	I'm betting on the vote amendment of 209 People's Deputies, Stotnik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:16:13]] For-84 The decision is not made. Next. 219, Sabashuk. Don't insist. 225th, Muschak. Don't insist. 226th, Rybchin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u180	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. This amendment refers to article 38, "The Speciality of Conducting General Meetings to Members of a Society with Only One Participant." So this right here is about protecting potential creditors of society. In the event that only one participant is part of the association and that such a participant is renting or providing services, such contracts must be made in writing in order to prevent money laundering from society. Please support this amendment, which details the relationship with one participant and protects potential creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u181	I bet on the vote amendment of 226 People's Deputies Rybchin. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. [[13:17:22]] For-88 The decision is not made. Next. 248, Semenha. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u182	Semenha, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, the law also aims to strengthen the rights of minority members of society, namely to obtain information about the activities of society. Today, a participant’s right is of great importance, since in the absence of the necessary information about the activities of the association, he is virtually deprived of the ability to assess the quality of the management, the prospects for the development of such a society, to determine, for example, the market value of a part of it. Therefore, the law provides for the possibility for the member of the association to have access to accounting documents and documents containing information that constitute a commercial secret and confidential information. In doing so, the amendment strengthens a number of restrictive conditions for obtaining such information in order to avoid the practice of abuse by participants of their right to receive information. Please be supportive. This will strengthen and extend the rights of minority owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u183	Thank you. I would like to vote on amendment 248 of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:18:45]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 250th, Sabashuk. Don't insist. 253. He insists. Captain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u184	Yeah, it's 253. In general, this article refers to the significant wrongs committed with regard to the violation provided for in article 45. I'd like to go over the details. To avoid abuse, especially during judicial proceedings. Specific cases where the court refuses to satisfy the requirements for the invalidity of a significant offence committed in violation of the requirements. Because today, based on corporate practices, based especially on judicial corporate practices, this is one of the most complex and inconstant types of disputes. There may be a great deal of abuse. And it would be right for the court at least to determine the framework in which cases they would say that satisfying the requirements, they would refuse to meet the requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u185	Thank you. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u186	Actually, Mrs. Helena, there are two, two topics here. The first theme is that we have laid out the order of the commission of significant wrongs in 49 articles. However, in article 49, we also copied the effects of the mistreatment of significant wrongs. And in the Act of Shareholder Associations in 72 articles, remember, we argued and we prescribed it. And it is based on the fact that if the congregations there or the oversight council did not agree to do a significant right, then the executive body did not have the right to sign such a right. So the consequences for us, just as for lawyers, are the same as for a person who is not authorized to do the right, and this is the same for a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u187	Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 253 People's Deputies, Captain. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Vote. [[13:21:03]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'm just asking you to work harder. We've already passed it, I'll finish it, Yura. It was 253. 247. Jura, this is for confirmation. Edited. All right, 247, Levenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u188	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The thing is, this is my last amendment. I'd like to take the only chance under the Rules to have a word. I'm talking to both the chairman and the reporter right now. The point is that Freedom will vote in favour of this project solely in the event that the entire article on inheritance, which is essentially proposed, unfortunately, is proposed to complicate, make it very difficult for heirs to acquire ownership after the death of a member of the society. So I'm now addressing both the chairman and the rapporteur, considering that this is an important bill and that there are a lot of positive norms in it that every voice will be important, I urge you, when you put this whole to a vote, to put these changes away, so it's very simple to have one line of simple, that property rights are acquired immediately after death without any restrictions, by law, without any restrictions at all, in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u189	This amendment will be made by the chairman of the committee before the vote. And just keep an eye on yourself, Andriy Volodymyrovich, and we'll put her to the vote before we vote. So, colleagues, I urge you once again to be more intensive so that we do not overwhelm the important progressive law. Then there are the amendments rejected. 257th. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u190	Dear Mr. Head, I don't have a 257 amendment, but actually a 259 is an amendment to the Birddog, but I have exactly the same amendment that was made to the committee, but it's not reflected in the table, so I'm going to appeal to 259 because they're identical to their contents. This amendment applies and was rejected by the committee, this amendment refers to the extension of the circle that is the final beneficiaries. For example, persons in whom legal persons in which any of the persons envisaged in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this article are the final beneficiary owner or member of the governing body, so we extend the circle of persons who are considered to be final beneficial owners and first of all, this is an anti-corruption rule. And secondly, it's a norm that is now common in civilized countries and it is, it's contributing to the fight against money-laundering. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u191	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 259. That's right, isn't it? Whoever supports the amendment, please vote, the committee rejected it. Please. [[13:24:27]] For-94 The decision is not made. 261. Don't insist. Next 263. Don't insist. 265. Don't insist. 267. Don't insist. 277, Semenha. Please. 255th. Turn on Captain, 255.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u192	Now you and I are moving on to the actual Final and Transitional Regulations, and it's very important for us to define more real transitions to new legislation for our business. So I suggest that the bill has a normal transition period so that businessmen can bring their documents into line. And for today, I just want to point out that we have over half a million of these limited liability societies. So I suggest you change the term in one month, which actually comes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u193	I'll take the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u194	changes for one year, i.e. not one month, but one year of normal transition.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u195	I'm voting on amendment 255, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:26:10]] For 104 The decision is not made. 277th. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the law applies to the question of the maximum number of members of the association, as I see it, is very sensitive. To cancel the limit that is now in 100 participants, I don't think it's justified. Agree that the need for such caution is explained by the fact that the relationship between members of the association is more personal, trusting, and relative, for example, to shareholders. Unlike shareholders, members of the association have the right to consent to the termination of a member of the association, the right to consent to transfer a share to statutory capital, and so forth. Therefore, in view of this, the amendment does not propose to cancel the restrictions on the number of participants, but by introducing a separate rule of the Transitional Regulations temporarily during the year after the reorganizations, it does not extend the scope of this restriction to those limited liability societies that would arise on the basis of former shareholders. In a year, these can reduce the number of participants to a hundred or so, comfortable for them, the number and this will be more harmonised, from the point of view of the transition of business to new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u197	Thank you. I'm betting on an amendment to the 277th People's Deputy of Seminy, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:27:37]] For-95 The decision is not made. 280th. Don't insist. He insists. 280th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u198	Thank you, Olena Sotnik, Self-Help, please don't interrupt me, I have a minute to talk. So, first of all, this also applies to the "transitional position" and the order of entry into force of this law. Once again, half a million already active societies with limited responsibility, so I propose that for those societies that will be created after this law becomes effective, this law will become effective for them from the day it becomes effective. For those societies with limited responsibility and additional responsibilities, which are required to bring their, in fact, documents into line after four years. So give them a lot of volume, because we're actually introducing a whole new legislation and a new regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u199	Andrew Volodymyrovich, must say the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u200	Ms. Olena, let's face it, we don't have to give any transitional period for statutes. We understand with you that the statutes will only work in that part. Oleno! Oleno! The statute will only work in a part that does not conflict with the law. Yeah, yeah. We cleaned the place up, we didn't give the deadline, we cleaned up the stock companies, we didn't give, it wouldn't hurt us.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u201	Don't argue with a woman, let's put her to a vote. I'm voting on Amendment 280. With a national MP. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 280 people's deputies, Captain. Please vote, please support, the committee has rejected it. [[13:29:46]] For-83 83-yes. The decision is not made. Next. Colleagues, I want to make a message, a memo, as they say. In five to seven minutes, we're going to be done with the amendments, so I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat and the faction heads to invite MPs into the hall, so it looks like there's literally a few more amendments that will be rejected. 310th, Ivanchuk. Don't insist. 316th, Muschak. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll bet for confirmation later when we get through all the deviations. I'll call them all later. Wait a second. Well, I've been through it, 280. 286th is partially accounted for. Please, Captain, 286.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u202	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-help. Yes, it's partly accounted for, but it doesn't answer and, again, it balances all corporate legislation. Because the articles that are proposed to be excluded here have a general order of forming farm societies and not just limited liability societies, these are both full societies and commanding societies. So in trying to settle societies with limited responsibilities, we don't do anything and we don't anticipate any change for command and complete, it balances corporate legislation. Please put it to a full vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u203	Thank you. Helen Sotnik asks that the room be supported so that the 286 amendments are fully taken into account, not as the committee does. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:31:51]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. 317th, Muschak. Don't insist. 320th Sabashuk. Don't insist. 325th, Solvar. Don't insist. Colleagues, we do come to the conclusion of amendments that are rejected. [[Noise Nodes]] I say, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. 334th Semenha. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, the bill provides for the possibility of including the creditor's property requirements in exchange for the creditor's share in the statutory capital of the company. At the same time, the bill does not take into account that the lender of the association may not only be a Ukrainian citizen but also a foreign investor. That's why I'm proposing the right to foresee changes to article 2 of the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Act, which provides for the possibility of accepting foreign investments to the transaction for the accounting of the creditor's financial terms. This revision, though mediocre, will definitely improve the investment climate. Because in this case it looks somewhat discriminatory because it will only apply to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u205	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u206	Well, first of all, I'm very impressed. All that Mr. Semenach says is iron logic. I agree with that. But this does not apply to the subject matter of this law. That's why we rejected this amendment. Let's register another bill, I'm ready to be co-author with you. And I fully support your standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u207	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote amendment 334 of the People's Deputies of Semimenha. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. Vote. And I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall, and we're about to go to the vote for confirmation of the amendments. Please invite everyone into the hall. [[13:33:54]] For-95 95-yes. The decision is not made. Colleagues, we've finished our work on the rejected amendments. Corrections for confirmation will be available. And I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies into the Hall and prepare for a decision. We can see from the discussion that a constructive discussion has taken place. There is the will of the Hall to adopt the law, but there are warnings from deputies that need to be arranged. So, colleagues, now we're going to the confirmation licenses. I'll call them, you'll fix me. Andrew Volodymyrovich, 13th Amendment. 13th, 17th. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please comment on the position of the committee. 13 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u208	13 Laws, the People’s Deputy of Ptashnik, counted by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u209	13th. Who requires it to be put on confirmation? It's about confirmation of number 13. The committee supported it and asked the hall to support the amendment. Please vote. Please support the committee. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. The committee is requesting support for this amendment. [[13:35:34]] For 186 The decision is not made. 17 law. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u210	17 is an editorial. Alexander, what do you want? Please bet on the 17th amendment, the committee has taken the matter into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u211	So I'm betting on confirmation of the 17th. The committee's asking her to support it. And please vote 17 for confirmation. The committee's asking for support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:36:16]] For 186 186 is in favour, that is to say, of the committee. 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u212	The 18th Amendment of the Ptachnik People’s Deputy is taken into account in an editorial way. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u213	Colleagues, I want to explain. In fact, if it is considered editorially, the proposal may be to take the whole thing into account or not at all. Not at all. Yeah? Okay. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 18. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote. Please support the 18th amendment. Vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. The committee's asking for support. Vote. [[13:37:07]] For 190 The decision is not made. 26th. I'm betting on confirmation. The committee's asking for support. We're voting on the 26th amendment. The committee's asking for support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support 26 revisions. [[13:37:32]] For-189 The decision is not made. Twenty-four? 24th, please. Wojciecian.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what is proposed in the committee's proposed edition in accordance with the article. Article 6, the duties of the members of the association, and we are talking about the fact that the content of the corporate contract is not to be disclosed, is confidential unless otherwise established by law or contract. I would like to point out that, when it comes to state and state interests, we have to be absolutely clear that treaties with State representatives, state companies that can become members of society should be made public -- no confidentiality. So we're definitely going to be against the proposed decision of the committee that we have in the right column as the decisions that we're going to read with you in accordance with 5 paragraphs, which is the content, not the subject of disclosure. We're just trying to get this information out.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u215	Vote what? 24th for confirmation, right? Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u216	Mrs. Victoria, what do you not like about the paper: the content of a corporate contract is not open and confidential unless otherwise established by law or contract? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u217	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 24th amendment. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote and please support, colleagues. 24 votes in favour. [[13:39:38]] For-174 The decision is not made. Next up, 47th. 30 revisions. 30th for confirmation. Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u218	Stand by for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation of the 30th amendment. Please vote. The committee took her into account and asked for her support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:40:09]] For-167 The decision is not made. Next up, 47th. Did anyone insist? No, it's not. 56th. 56th for confirmation. I'm betting on the confirmation of 56 revisions. The committee supported her. And the committee's asking her to support it. So 56 revisions, please support. [[13:40:44]] For 177 The decision is not made. 59th. Ivanchuk's version. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote. Please support the 59th revision. Please vote. [[13:41:08]] For-167 The decision is not made. 60th, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then there's no need. 72nd. Did anyone insist? 71st, 72nd. I'll bet you 71st, 72nd Amendment. The committee supports it. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:41:48]] For-179 The decision is not made. 78th. That's the 78th amendment. Whoever supports this amendment is supported by the committee, please vote. [[13:42:14]] For 178. The decision is not made. What's that? 82. 82nd for confirmation. The committee supported her. Please vote. Please support the 82nd revision. Please vote. [[13:42:41.]] For-173 The decision is not taken. Next one is 95th. I'm betting on confirmation of the 95th amendment. Colleagues, four more amendments and we go to the vote. Everyone, please enter the hall, four more votes. 95 amendment for confirmation. The committee supported her. Please vote. Please support 95 revisions. Please vote. [[13:43:21]] For-189 The decision is not taken. 112th, 113th. They're identical. 105th, 110th? We agreed that Andrew Volodymyrovich would define how they should be. That's how we put 105 on confirmation. 110th, okay. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 110, and the committee supported it. Please vote. Please support 110 revisions. Please be supportive. [[13:44:02]] For 165 The decision is not taken. 113. I'm betting on confirmation. The committee supports it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Fellows, two more revisions! Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. [[13:44:25]] For 175 The decision is not taken. And 125th, right? 114th and 125th. Two last revisions. Please be prepared. All right, 114. The committee supports it. Please vote. Please support 114 revisions. [[13:45:00]] For-187 The decision is not made. 125 revisions are based on confirmation. The committee supports it. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote in favour of the 125 amendment. [[13:45:21]] For 186 The decision is not taken. And please. Odarchenko please call.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for confirmation of Amendment 313. In the first reading, a rule was proposed, according to which any decision of the management body of a society with limited liability to the requirement of its member may be certified notary. In doing so, it was established that the association for the purpose of time savings could hold meetings of its organs in the presence of a notary who, after the meeting, bears witness to documents approved by members of the association. It is not an imperative nor does it give society and its members the right to choose. It is an anti-rider mechanism that members of society can use according to their own will and judgment. For some reason, though, the second reading did not come into play. So I'm asking you to make a 313 amendment to confirm and reject it, leave the law in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u220	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 313. Please vote, support the committee. The committee's asking for support. [[13:46:54]] For-189 Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u221	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to file 330 for confirmation. Would you please explain to me that in the Limited Responsibilities Act, changes are made to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Why do we see the order of work among the standards of economic societies?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u222	What's the correction, Jura? What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u223	330.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u224	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u225	Declined. No questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u226	The last three revisions are called Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u227	Thank you. Thank you for turning on the microphone. I'll divide by group. The two amendments that apply to the Supervisory Board, I propose that I leave them in the first reading -- this is Amendment 230 and 231 -- for confirmation. And also two amendments that relate to significant rights, including the amendment of 249, Mr. Voropeyev, and also in line 338 is the amendment of Ivanchuk, which is written "accounted for", and I also ask for confirmation. And the last. Amendment 330 has to be submitted for confirmation because this amendment is written "in part" according to the table. We insist that changes to the Kabin Law have no bearing on the law, and they must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u228	Thank you. I'll set up all the adjustments. But, colleagues, there's one thing I want to tell you, you see how the committee's work is failing. The committee worked for several months on the bill, not necessarily any bill. And in fact, the moment of confirmation can be completely confused by logic. Now, the chairman of the committee, he doesn't even know what kind of adjustments they're interacting with. And you know, I'm going to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have a bill of authorship of Krivenk, it's introduced when there's confirmation that there's 226 to confirm those rights, not the other way around, because otherwise, we're totally failing the committee's work. We can adopt a law where one right would conflict with another right, I think it would balance the work in this case. Now we're going to consult the committee head on how we're going to act. I'm going to put all these changes to confirm, and then the committee head will advise us on how to act. And I'm going to the vote. Amendment 230. Let's do it, it's 1 minute, let's do it already. 230 clearance for confirmation. 330, that's 330. Please support the committee, please vote. Please support the committee, please vote. [[13:49:57]] For 168 331. Yeah? Oh, 230, right? 230, 231 -- they're adjacent, and together I'm betting on confirmation, the committee's asking for support. Please vote, please support. [[13:50:28]] For-174 The decision is not made. 249. For confirmation. The committee's requesting support for 249, please vote. [[13:50:50]] For a hundred and 259. And the last one is 338. 338, we called it. Please support the committee, please vote 338 for confirmation, please support. 338th row. [[13:51:13]] For-161 The decision is not made. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. But I'm stressing again, so it's impossible to pass system laws, it's just impossible. I don't know what to do. Please, head of the committee, Andriy Volodymyrovich, conclude and advise us on how to proceed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u229	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, thank you all very much for taking such an active part in the discussion. I want to tell everyone who's here right now, at this point doesn't fully understand what's happened. We haven't achieved, like everyone who's worked on this law for a year and a half, a percent result. But the adoption of this law, despite the fact that so many norms have been ruled out by regulatory procedures, this law is a very big revolutionary step forward. And I'm asking you very much, despite the fact that so many progressive, beautiful norms are not going to go into the final text, to support what's going on today. Not everything can be perfect, but what we're going to do and we're going to adopt this law as a whole, it's going to be a very big victory in the crust.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u230	Thank you. Let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please, one minute, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! I want to go to all the people's deputies about the issue that I think is most concerned about, this is about the issue of the inheritance of corporate rights. Thus, honourable colleagues, according to current legislation, corporate rights do not pass on to your heirs. And the 107 revisions that Rybchin made and which are considered by the committee give heirs the opportunity to inherit corporate rights. This is a serious step forward, so this bill, taking into account the correction of Rybchin, which is included, must be voted on today. An extremely serious and powerful law, over a year and a half, has been working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u232	Colleagues, Remodeling, accounted for. Counted, right? Colleagues, let's go out for a consensual vote, another minute, Captain, please, one minute, Captain. And the head of the committee, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u233	Thank you for the opportunity. In fact, colleagues, look, I agree that with the confirmation of a series of rights, the law is now somewhat balanced and there will be many inconsistencies. What's more, we don't enter a normal period of transition, and as a result we're going to get an unbalanced law. And 500,000 limited liability societies will have to work in some way, in fact, under a law that will contradict itself. We've tried the key things, in fact, to choose: first, it's the question of assessing and getting out of society; second, it's a question of not being abused by the exclusion of members of society and raiders; third, there's not to be any schemes in relation to inheritance and heirs. Unfortunately, it's impossible to do that in the hall, it had to be done in the committee, but the committee worked as a working group, not with the deputies. So we do propose to sit down as an MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u234	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please, Ivanchuk, one minute and we'll vote. Take up jobs. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u235	I have a line, Mrs. Sotnik. I'm sorry, I'm going to make amends, and I'm not going to allow any more of these for the future, I don't know how to put it right. All of it. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u236	Vote. Ask everyone to uphold the law. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to. before draft of the Limited and Additional Responsibilities Society Act (No. 4666) on second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:56:43]] For 184 Colleagues, I'll put it up. Andrew Volodymyrovich, on the second one again? Colleagues, I will now return to the vote, the offer. If we have that will, we will go back to voting in general. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I propose to go back to voting in the entire Bill 4666. Please vote, please support. Voting as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u237	In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u238	Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u239	Return to voting as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-25-m0.u240	[[13:57:33]] For a hundred and 192-yes. My next suggestion is to send Law 4666 to read again. And I'd like everyone to mobilize and rework. Please mobilize. I am voting on the draft Society Act with limited and additional responsibility (4666) for re-reading the second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:58:14]] For 235 235-yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, we're going to have to change the Rules because it's impossible to pass system laws. I'm asking everyone to stay put, colleagues! We have a law with one law. Everyone please stay put, colleagues. Colleagues, law is one thing. I'm asking you to come into the hall, stay out of the hall. The next law is the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the Induction of Service-Based and Military-Application Sports. Colleagues, it's a matter of national security and defense, don't leave the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. That's because after lunch we won't get through either! Colleagues, all right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then, colleagues, we're the next law, I'll transfer it to after lunch. You go to your faction, look, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I want to make two announcements that have come to the Presidency. This is an announcement: pursuant to article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union "Together With People for the Development of the State" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of this union is the national deputy of the Ukraine of Chicken Maksim Pavlovich. Hello, colleagues. And the next message. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For the Efficiency and Permanent Development of the Odessa Portal Plant" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Chekit Hennady Leonidovich, was elected head of this association. Colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00. Everyone please come to the hall to continue our work.
