ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u1	Honorary colleagues, as we have agreed, arrived at the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Attorney-General, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, as well as Mr. Holodnicki. That is why we can move on to the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the national MP. Colleagues, before I begin, I will explain to everyone in detail how the discussion will take place. First of all. Attention, please, in the hall! 'Cause then they'll be screaming out of place for what and how. I want everyone's attention. So we will follow fully the procedure provided for by law. First, as Head of the Supreme Council, I will read the resolution part. After that, 15 minutes of questions to the Attorney General of Ukraine. One minute is the question, two minutes is the answer. After that, 15 minutes is to provide explanations from that national MP for whom there is submission. After that, statements from factions and groups will be able to produce all the factions and groups. Then, 10 minutes, the speeches from the national MPs. One of the first presentations will be the presentation by the first deputy chairman of the Regulatory Committee. And then the closing statements and the voting. Naturally, one supply will go from 10 to 20 hours. That means we'll be working virtually by 10:00 p.m. So I ask everyone to express themselves in a concise manner so that we can get through the questions as effectively as possible. Now I'm asking you to take up your jobs and get ready for registration. Please check in, prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? Ladies and gentlemen, I request that you sign up for the evening session. [[16:08:01]] 360 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And we're moving on to the submissions in the sequence that the regulatory committee has submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First submission of consent to attract the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Dejde Evgen Sergiyovich. Let us go to his consideration. According to the Rules, I have to read the resolution part of the application. In accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", the Supreme Council agrees to bring criminal responsibility to the national MP. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission of Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenka, Attorney-General of Ukraine, to give consent to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Dedey Evgen Sergiyovich. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has been carrying out procedural guidance in criminal proceedings since 16.11.2016, following the signs of a criminal offence envisaged in part three of article 368-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. As evidenced by the submission of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, it has been established that Dejdey Eugene Sergiyovich, as a national deputy of Ukraine and a service person who has a particularly responsible position, acting on purpose, is pursuing the purpose of illicit enrichment in an undetermined investigation of time and place, acquired property of assets on a large scale. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on July 03, with the participation of the Attorney-General, considered the submission of an agreement on the criminal liability of the Ukrainian national deputy, Dedeja Eugen Sergiyovich. The findings of the committee and the reported submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine were immediately sent to you by e - mail and distributed on the registration desks in paper copies. Dear National Deputies! Now, according to the Rules, we have 15 minutes to answer and ask U.S. Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka of the MP factions and groups. I want to make a point, not all factions can in 15 minutes, but let's not worry about it, then there'll be speeches from all the factions, for that we only have 15 minutes. So I ask the factions to sign up for a question to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, please. The General Prosecutor of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, is invited to the rostrum for answers to questions. Colleagues, from Peter Prashenko's Block, the word is given to Gerasim's Arthur, the head of the Peter Prashenko bloc. Please have a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Yuri Vitaliovich! I want to remind you once again that yesterday there was a meeting of the Peter Prashenko bloc, where we decided that we would support and vote in favour of removing the parliamentary immunity on all the submissions that came at the moment to the Supreme Council and passed the regulatory committee. It's a faction position, it's clear and consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u3	That was a performance, I understand, not a question, right? Because now we have time for questions. Okay, I give the floor to the representative of the People's Front, Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u4	Good afternoon, Yuri Vitaliovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, we must do well to undergo this cleansing. There was a People's Front faction meeting yesterday, and we've decided that our fellow members of the people's deputies Day and Poles can defend themselves with honor in court and without hiding their immunity. But I would like to ask you, do you not see this selectiveness in the persecution of some national MPs? Instead, there are representatives of the Eurooptimists, who borrowed exactly the same money with the same plot, bought elite real estate in the center, and in no way did the NABU reveal any criminal case, instead of even bringing it to the GDR. So we think that's the selectivity of the MPs' persecution. So please tell us, do you not think that, by analogy with Eugene Daede, there is a need to break matters and file a motion with another MEP in this session room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u5	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Burbak! First of all, thank you for inviting me to Parliament, unfortunately, to refuse to demonstrate visual material on the board, so I will have to show only the materials that I have with me from this high rostrum. Mr. Maxime, there are several hundred deputies in this room who were all here together, on Maidan. At his most critical moments, there were only fewer than a hundred men there. But we all put flowers in the memory of heroes in order to meet the requirements of Maidan. In short, I personally believe that these requirements were simple and understandable: to remove the Janukovic national mafia and to restore the law and justice in our Ukraine. Today, I have come to you to partially remove the post - Soviet feudal oridism of MPs and to make the honorable six, today five, national deputies of ordinary Ukrainians, for whom the investigation can ask questions and choose a precaution as well as all other millions of our fellow countrymen. And that's all! However, I want to say again what I said on the regulatory committee. Ladies and gentlemen, not only do people leave our country because they have little pay and no work, they leave because they lose faith in the fundamental values of our nation: the law, for everyone, and justice, for everyone. Today you can press the "for" button nine times and restore the law -- for everyone and justice -- for everyone. I reject the theory of selectiveity, for with regard to the National MP, Dejai, when it is said that it is a vendetta of the NAB for his position in events involving Nasir. No! No! The National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine began the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u7	Please, just give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u8	The case of the likely illicit enrichment of Acts began on November 16, 2016. So this is in no way involved in Mr. Eugene’s public position. And once again, I'm sure Eugene will be as brave as she was in Maidan and in trial, and in court, he can defend himself if he has any argument for it. We believe that today we need to bring him to criminal responsibility, to allow the investigation to work with them, as well as with each of the Ukrainians who were standing on and out of Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u9	Thank you. Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich is invited to the question from the "Fatherland" faction. Look, check Mr. Sergey's card. Oh?Oh, my God! It works, you can talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u10	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! Similarly this morning, our faction has decided to vote without exception for all submissions in order for each MP to be able, regardless of any privileges and immunities, to protect his name if he is not guilty in court as other citizens do. The only warning that, unfortunately, not everyone was standing on Maidan was that they were standing in the Marijn Park with bits and there was no submission about these people, because it wasn't just a question of corruption, it was a question of the actual bodily damage to the killings that existed at the time. But the question I have is another difficult question that was on the regulatory committee (I looked closely at the materials) is the evidence base. Are you convinced that the evidence base that will be used on each of these cases will be one that will be accepted in the courts if, in fact, these courts are independent and uninvolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u11	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. First of all, I want to report that according to prosecutors and investigators, the Mayan events of 18, 19 and 20 will be completed by autumn. during the fall of this year. And we're going to be able to bring to trial everyone's eyes and eyes who's given criminal orders, at this point, we've got a pretty serious base on this case. Now about the objectivity of the matter, Dede. I'd like to inform you that the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has given me an idea of Mr. Dedey's possible illegal enrichment on May 3rd of this year -- that's the submission. I returned it to the Special Anti - Corruption Prosecutor’s Office and the NABU because I was not convinced that there was sufficient evidence that a 2.5 million - million - dollar loan had been made to the wife of a national MP. I didn't get it, he was fictitious during the investigation. After that, the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor gave me the court-sanctioned legal hearing of telecommunications of a number of figures, including one named in Mr. Dedey's declaration as "borrower" of his wife, from which it appears that this loan was fictitious, was agreed upon after the investigation began. On this basis, I think enough evidence to tell you about illegal wealth, because the incomes of the Dadei family, if you give up that loan, don't let him lead the way of life that they lead and buy the valuable things that they bought. So, at this point, it's enough to make a statement of suspicion and further pre-trial investigation of evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u12	Thank you. And one last question. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u13	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Attorney General, please report to the community and parliament on what percentage of cases the Parliament has already agreed to bring the deputies to account for your submissions, according to your predecessor Shokin: where are these cases, as they are being considered, or suspected, or brought to trial? I think it's very important for people to know, because in December you reported here at the Novinski College, saying that only the MP's intrusiveness prevents you from being brought to justice. It's been seven months. Where is it? The other votes were. Please indicate where the cases are, whether they are dealt with and what decisions have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u14	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. You know, as no one else, that the prosecution reports only in court when the charges are brought. So I'm standing here on this stand and I'm asking you to be able to conduct a trial, and it's going to be effective, including, and by the way, as you say, to the colleague of Novinsky, whom you mentioned. The investigation is going well enough. Probably new episodes in the presentation to the National MP. If that happens, I'm going to come back to this rostrum and I'm going to ask everyone and you again, in particular, Oleg Valeriyovich, as a person who knows exactly how the trial is going, and then what happens next, to support my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u15	Thank you, colleagues. All questions were answered by the Attorney General. Let's go to the next chapter. I thank Yuri Vitaliovich. I understand you'll come back again. Now, a word for explanation is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Dadey Evgen Sergiyovich. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u16	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! I apologize for speaking Russian, just, well, I'm from the city of Odessa, so it's easier for me to speak Russian. [[Noise Nodes]] Although I can speak Ukrainian, I'm asking your permission to speak Russian right now. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u17	Colleagues, I think this is the exceptional case where we will be able to express our position to Eugenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u18	Yeah, well, actually, I'll tell you what, I got to know what was on the committee, and I think you'll be able to get to know it, too. It's purely political, what I've been trying to incriminate, I haven't done in any way. There is a person who came to the committee clearly and confirmed that, yes, he was actually giving that money. And, in fact, it's basically how the entire evidence base ends. I mean, well, I'm asking you completely. I'm not gonna stand there right now, talk to someone or ask for anything. I ask you to look, study and judge by conscience and by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u19	Thank you. The Committee is given the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u20	Honourable Head, Honourable National Deputys of Ukraine, Committee at its meeting on 3 July this year, with the participation of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, National Deputy Dedey Eugène Sergiyovich, reviewed the submission of consent to the criminalization of Dedey Eugène Sergiyovich, supported by Henprocuror to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 June 2017. First of all, in line with articles 1 and 28 and 35 of the Anti-Corruption Act, the question may arise when considering a given and other application, whether it is considered to be a potential, real or private conflict of interest with respect to the national MPs who are part of a single MP group, a member of a committee, a temporary commission, working groups, inter-parliamentary groups with foreign countries and so on, friendly or family relations, and so on, with the national MPs on whom submission is made. Taking this into account, I note that part of the first article 31 of the Rules is provided for, 31 with a badge 1, that a national MP participates in plenary meetings to discuss issues of conflict of interest, provided that this is announced publicly during the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where appropriate submission is considered. For my part, I declare that I have such a conflict of interest because I am with the People's Dedeus in one faction. Colleagues, this in no way limits any of the national MPs in his right to vote on a particular matter, but I have made this announcement about myself, and I recommend that all those involved in this discussion make appropriate announcements in view of the fact that otherwise there is a risk of drafting administrative delinquency protocols. The subject of such protocols is NAMK. The same is true of other national MPs who will be spoken of during the plenary session by national deputies — members of their factions. It's formal or informal, in any case it's a requirement of law, we have to listen to it. The above-mentioned submission, which I mentioned, was initiated by the Chief of the Sixth Division of the Department of Procedural Management, the maintenance of the State's indictment and the representation before the court of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the U.S. General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Ukraine, who requests that the submission be considered and that consent be given to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Deja. As noted in the report, Dadey Evgen Sergiyovich committed a criminal offence envisaged in part three of article 368-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, i.e. the acquisition by a person authorized to perform the functions of the State, to the property of a large-scale asset, the legality of which is not supported by evidence, and also the transfer by it of such assets to any other person made by a service person who is in a particularly responsible position. The committee concluded that part three and part of the requirements had been violated. Article 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, was violated by the secret of telephone conversations. In particular, there has been a telephone conversation by Ukrainian National Deputy Dedeja with a citizen of Linchevski, and there have been unspoken investigations that restrict the rights and freedoms of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, which are permitted only if the Supreme Council of Ukraine has agreed to bring the Ukrainian People's Deputy to criminal responsibility. In addition, the Committee noted that there were no documents to support the establishment of a pre-trial investigation into the fact that there was no financial obligation between the wife of Dedey and Linchevsky, as well as the actual transfer of the amount of three and a half million sums, which was noted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dedey, in the declaration of the person empowered to perform the functions of the State for 2015-16 years. Instead, the same Lynchevski committee confirmed in his explanation that he had granted the amount of credit that he had given to the national deputy Dade to his wife, Dedey Inna. The committee also pointed out that as evidence to support the illegal enrichment of the National Deputies, the fact that they were married is noted, as evidenced by the record of the marriage of Dede and Dedey Inna and the individual case of Dede Eugen as Ukrainian national deputy. However, the data does not indicate how the evidence confirms the intention and illegality of the enrichment of the Ukrainian national deputy, which has given rise to an appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consent to bring an MP to criminal responsibility. The committee considers the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of the People’s Deity to be lawful, since it is initiated and submitted by an appropriate subject, yet insufficiently justified, unmotivated, and contains specific facts. The findings of the investigation are based on assumptions, and the legality of the receipt of evidence is questionable that it cannot support the fact that a criminal offence was committed by the National MP, Dade, under article 368-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in part three. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u21	Thank you. And let's move on to the next chapter. By the way, I'd like to point out, colleagues, that we're going fast enough and I have a request that we continue to do so. So the next chapter is the factions of factions and groups. It takes up to 24 minutes, but it does not have to be exhausted. Therefore, only those who want to enter. And then it'll be from the National Deputies for 10 minutes. So please sign up from factions and groups who want to speak. Please. And I'd like to be brief. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u22	Good afternoon! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you the opinion of the Peter Dusty Block. Indeed, yesterday we held a meeting of our faction, where we unanimously decided to support all the prosecution. And I, as Secretary of the Rules Committee, took part in a meeting where we were looking at the submission of the Attorney General concerning the People's Dede. I will make my personal point of view as the national deputy of Lubinz and as a member of the Regulatory Committee, who voted in favour of the conclusion read by the first deputy Paul Pinzenic. So I want to invite everyone, first of all, to the vote. Secondly, let each national MP personally draw his own conclusions, but first of all, they use the motives or really the National Deputy Day's criminal offence. And according to the Legislative Committee, you had the opportunity to hear what we had concluded. So I will not say political slogans; I will say that every national MP needs to be given the right to defend his fair name in court. And on behalf of the National MP, let the Chamber determine itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u23	Thank you. From the People's Front, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich gives the floor to the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! I want to remind everyone. Now, today, Yuri Vitaliyovich was showing photos from Majdan that almost all the members of the People's Front were members of the Dignity Revolution, and we passed the Maydan together. And all of you, together after the victory of the Dignity Revolution, said that the MP's immunity should be recorded. We voted with you in the first reading and the changes in the Constitution regarding the removal of MPs of inviolability. I think that's how you have to go to the judges, to the other high-ranking people. But here's the main thing. Let's sort this out. I think it's politically motivated persecution and it's all about white thread. I'm sure Eugene Day told the whole truth about this situation when we spoke to the factions yesterday. There was a decision of our faction by the majority that we would vote in favour, in order that he would be able to prove his right in court with honor and dignity, and he would do so. But I'm curious enough to know that when I asked the Attorney General, I didn't hear the answer, and why is that the same story, with the same story about a national MP from the BPT faction who also borrowed money from his fiancee, bought elite real estate in Kiev and didn't even break the NABU case! Isn't that the protection of your friends who sometimes act as a pianist on some media outlets? Has the search been carried out, or has the NAB not been able to communicate the date of the information, and a resource already has a message from the NAB press service, which operates under the MP's mandate or what? Please tell me. Why was this not the case? If we are all equal before the law, please break into the GDR and bring this proposal here. And the lord of this MP himself will go and disown this Maidan. Because in the morning, they were burning in bronze here on the street, shouting that all the criminals were here. And that's the faction that makes up the coalition and takes responsibility in that state. So it's a pretty interesting position, but we understand why. Because they're doing it by doing it with a pianist agency at the NABU. So, honourable colleagues, in order to avoid being accused of hiding behind the parliamentary inviolability, we decided by a majority of the votes that we would support this submission. But in the end, I think they're politically motivated by the NAB, who are now clearing the political field for certain political parties in order to go to the next parliamentary and then presidential elections. It's a purely political order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u25	From the faction of "The Father" Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, this is the last name that was the most difficult discussion in our faction, but we have decided to go anyway to vote for the removal of parliamentary immunity. Only for one reason. There is no other way for a national MP to protect himself from, if this is indeed political pressure or unfounded submission, than for the matter to come to trial. As a result of this, since there is no prosecution for arresting him as a possible precaution, there is every possibility to open the trial, it has been used, on the one hand, by the Attorney General's Office to prove its accusations and by the national deputy to prove its innocence. I think everyone understands that any of these cases, which eventually ends with the court justifying the person, is actually going to be a mistrust of the Attorney General. Hence, he understands responsibility when signing such an application. I think that will be the answer that everyone who performs their constitutional duties deserves. faction's decision: to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u27	From the Self-Help faction, Podlisecki is invited to the floor, conveys the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u28	Self-help will be voted in favour of all the Prosecutor-General's submissions prepared for the participation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Bureau, and the Attorney-General's own procurators. I'd like to say that, in fact, now is probably a historic time. And all those in this room who are preparing to vote are participants in a historic event. In Ukraine’s history, there was no precedent for a few deputies immediately, the more the governing authorities were placed before the law and the parliament agreed to deprive them of their inviolability. That's what's always distinguished all the other countries in Europe, America, the civilized world that we looked at with envy. And today we all have a historic chance to get closer to this normal life. I want to tell all my colleagues, if, under any circumstances, there is a motion in Parliament to deprive me of my parliamentary immunity, I will ask you to do so. That's not the way to hide any person, not under a parliamentary mandate. There is no party, and there is no MP who, when communicating with the electorate, has not promised or will not promise to take it off. And today we have the opportunity to demonstrate to society that we have really started out, that Parliament is taking away the integrity of the MPs, whose actions have revealed signs of corruption. For the sake of understanding, colleagues who are not very familiar with anti-corruption legislation. The article in Eugene Dedey’s case, written here, is the convening of the Supreme Council. This article is from America, where they have started and are very effective in fighting officials who have never been in business but who are beginning to earn money that no businessman can earn. It's called Illegal Enrichment. The point is that when an official cannot explain the origin of his money, he committed a crime. According to this article, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, along with the Anti-Corruption Bureau, is already one case against the Attorney General's Office of Constantine Kulik. It is very important that we allow the country to form judicial practice, to start justice in cases of illicit enrichment, which is a very good way to clean up politics from people who confuse it with business.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u29	And a closing statement. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. After that, the National MPs, please prepare for the recording, then the record of the National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, Yegor Sobolev! Yegor Sobolev! As I listened to you carefully, I hope that you will listen to us as carefully as you do. I agree with my distinguished colleague Yegor Sobolev, but today in Parliament is a historic moment. But I would also like to place other grades on what, on my conviction and on our team, is the historicity of the moment. What we now see, is there any doubt that there are people in Parliament who need to be called to account? Of course not. There are many who need to be called to account. But what has this attraction to responsibility become? Attorney General Lucenko, who is illegally appointed to his post, has been specially amended by a law that has no moral right to read a lecture here and knows better than anyone that he does not have such a moral right. Today, he abuses the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Attorney General to collect political accounts, and he carries out the task of discrediting the Ukrainian Parliament. Lucenko, in office of the Attorney General, is making a political career, Lucenko, a newly formed anti - corruption fighter who lives in a 900 - square - foot - long - old test house, will go to elections and tell the bad parliament and how he wanted to overcome corruption and would not be given it. Lucenko was appointed Attorney General because of the political pressure of President Dustenk. President Prashenko's task is controlled, guided, destroyed Parliament. This is a way for the President to establish a dictatorship in the Supreme Council. President Prašenko thinks it's his only way to get a second term. As the ancient Romans offered bread and sights, the bread of the people was not given, the nation was harvested, so persons such as the Attorney - General offer a spectacle instead of giving work to Ukrainians, wages, bread, and bread. The destroyed Parliament, and I'll remind you, in the fourth year revolution, and in the 14th year revolution, Parliament was the only place that saved the country. President Poshenko and Henprocuror Lucenk are destroying Ukraine today, destroying Parliament, because an independent, active, uncontrollable executive authority, Parliament is the only opportunity for the development of our country. The faction of the Radical Party therefore insists on an urgent review of the bill amending the Constitution on the abolition of all parliamentary integrity, but at the same time the adoption of the Law on the Procedure for the Impeachment of the President, the interim investigators of the Supreme Council in order to ensure that before the law all levels, including General Prosecutor Lucenko, and President Poroshenko, who speak of equality before the law only for 27 years of independence of the people who are in office, are to be held accountable, unfortunately, need not be rectified.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u31	Colleagues, it's 10 minutes from the National Deputies. Please record, this is not from the factions, but from the people's deputies, please record. Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich gives the word Igor Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to report a conflict of interest, because Mr. Dedey personally threatened to kill me in his Facebook by bits on the way out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I urge everyone to vote against, I have called on my faction, but the faction has decided otherwise to vote against the approval of the Attorney General for the following reasons. In my opinion, the submission, prepared by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, serves only one purpose, so that we don't know the reasons and sources from which Mr. Dedey might hypothetically get rich. That is, in 2014, through the official forgery of Arsen Awakov, the minister of internal affairs, he was made a national deputy of Ukraine, while he had to get his term, the probationary term on which he was sentenced by the Ukrainian court for robbery, for robbery. We have not heard or seen about this from our law - enforcement officers, and we have not heard or seen of Habakkuk in this account. So I don't think it's a reasonable submission that I've made, I think that for my own reasons and for all of my reasons, I also call for no vote, not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u33	Berezuk Oleg Romanovich. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich. Passes the word Ostrecki, tell me, it's not hard. Passes the word Ostrecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u34	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Self-Help, you know who's voting for all the motions for the removal of parliamentary inviolability. Where there is detention and arrest, we also vote in favour to avoid any manipulation. This was the point of our program with which we went to the elections and many of your parties in the programs also had such an item, the rejection of the parliamentary immunity in the way it exists in Ukraine, full and absolute. Legally, I want us to be aware of this, taking away the inviolability is not admitting a person guilty, it's not a judgment of a court. Rather, it allows a person to gain a certain procedural status, to exercise certain procedural rights, to defend himself, and to prove his or her right in court. Moreover, the court is already politically independent, uninvolved and fair, according to the overwhelming majority of judicial reform that many of you have voted for. Of course, "just" and "uncommitted" courts are in paws, now on our own skin we will all have the opportunity if they are presented and they are satisfied by the Supreme Council to see what is an honest, fair, politically unattractive court in Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the following. My colleagues and I have a faction agreement in case there's an application against one of us, because we're in opposition and we often say things that are unpleasant to the authorities. We agreed that we would go out to this rostrum and read the statements, and we would ask ourselves not to act on our conscience and not on our friendships, but we would ask us to remove this inviolability until the constitutional changes have been voted on. As long as they are not voted on, for some reason they are not put to the first reading, regardless of the availability of the Constitutional Court’s conclusions. We believe and have passed an appropriate bill of 5487 that the procedure itself to remove parliamentary immunity can be greatly simplified, to avoid all these manipulations and "mild operas" in the regulatory committee on evidence research. The evidence needs to be investigated in court, and the video needs to be examined in court, and the assessment of the evidence should be given to the court, not to the regulatory committee and not to the whole of Ukraine. That's why I'm now calling on the Head of the Supreme Council to put Bill 5487 into the room, which will simplify and make it as technical as in other parliaments of the world: there's been a filing for a general criminal offence, I don't know, for violating the Road Traffic Rules, assembled, voted without a political pyar and without having a "mild opera" on the regulatory committee, when the attention of all Ukraine is diverted, there are billions in the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u35	Thank you. And the closing statement of the Wooden Jury Bogdanovich, please. Then the closing words. Please, Drevejanko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u36	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues, MPs! Yuri Derevyanko, political party "The Will of the New Forces". I urge you, Your Honor, and especially those who are now actively responding to vote in favour today, to vote in favour of all the representations of the Attorney General regarding our fellow members of the National Deputies. I urge you to take a decisive step today to overcome fear. The fear that may be here is in the Supreme Council Hall regarding a large number of national MPs who point to the question of depriving themselves of parliamentary integrity. Dear colleagues, we will become a truly European country when we not only vote for all these submissions today, but when we actually make changes to the Constitution, we will undo this inviolability, and then, when we lose this fear of ourselves, we will make a parliament that will control the President, and we will be able to vote on the commissions that follow, and we will be able to vote on the President's impeachment law, including. Dear colleagues, if anyone thinks of you, or who is in a position of opposition, which is very strongly expressed today with regard to active power, usurpation by the President of power and something else, or whoever is in the coalition today, that integrity will save you – no! There is only one thing that will save you: if you take a transparent, open and defensive position, like all Ukrainians, publicly in court. You are all public figures, and you have a great deal of public attention. So today, when we're talking about cancelling parliamentary immunity, this question is faster than ever, it's a question of who we are: we're Europeans, we're human beings, how they really want to transform Ukraine, and this Parliament can do this historic mission, whether we're still in this feudal order, which, in return for our inviolability, allows us not to require Parliament, from the President to pass very other important laws, not to give – no matter what the President's name is, to usurp power. So, dear colleagues, I urge you today to vote exclusively for all submissions, and I urge you to join in with the bill that we have drafted with colleagues today and that changes the Constitution today on the elimination of inviolability. The first is by Yuri Levchenko, there are 83 signatures there today. Let's help the President pick up another 70 signatures and make, register these changes to the Constitution so that we can undo this disgrace forever. So, dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. The whole country is looking at you, and vote honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u37	Guys, one minute left. And I give one minute to speak to the next National Deputy of Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailny, one minute and not three minutes, so much remains. Please, Victoria Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u38	Please give Yuri Lewchenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u40	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. There's been a lot of talk right now about, as if it's all political persecution, that it's some sort of selectiveness and, you know, everybody's saying such interesting things: well, we're for filming, but it's selectively one way or another. It was also mentioned that in 2004, and in 2014, this Parliament saved Ukraine from revolutions, not from the Ukrainian people, but from parliament, it also turns out to be such interesting words. So, in order for there to be no political selectivity, the distinguished national MPs, take off the integrity as such at all, remove this whole part of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, remove it. Presidential Bill 1776 can't do that anymore, all it depends on, it can't be accepted, we need to collect 150 signatures under the new bill, now we have 86 signatures. Please, everyone who's just been here and he's been tearing up a shirt on his chest about not being touched -- come up and sign it, prove to the Ukrainians what you're telling the truth, not lying to the front of the Supreme Council!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u41	Colleagues, speeches by the national deputies have been completed. Now we have the closing statement, first the Attorney General of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, 3 minutes, is invited for the closing statement, then – Dejdey Eugene Sergiyovich and then – Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u42	Dear National Deputies! I have filed an application for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Deja, who is accused of committing acts that fall under the criminal offence determined by the Criminal Code. The Criminal Code Act is an illegal enrichment. The evidence of this is in the investigation. I ask you now to take a responsible decision and lift the MP's intrusiveness so that a fellow member of Dedey will be touched by a trial or perhaps a judicial investigation. Once again, I believe that the Henprocurorate is sufficient to make the facts known to the National MP. This can only be done after you have voted to grant permission to bring Mr. Dedea to criminal responsibility. If there is enough evidence to declare the indictment, the investigation will be made. If this is done, it will only go to one place that has to determine who is to blame, who is not to blame. This place is called a court. There's not supposed to be a trial here in the Supreme Council. I have a reasonable application for which I ask you to vote. And when I respond to the reptiles of one of the MPs, what I'm saying is that it's not a parliamentary breakdown -- it's a parliamentary cleansing. He will be stronger by demonstrating that the law is one for all, including for respected national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u43	Thank you. Is Dedey Eugene Sergiyovich insisting? Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone. And, colleagues, there will be a vote in a few minutes. I ask both the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the hall to prepare for the vote. Please, Dejday Eugene Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u44	Basically, it's like I already said it. If the Chamber believes that the arguments given are sufficient to vote, well, I will say again, I ask to vote on my conscience and on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u45	And the last performance. The first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, is invited to the closing statement. Then we go to the vote, colleagues. Please invite everyone to the hall. Mr. Paul, turn on the microphone. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I will briefly remind you of the resolution part of our conclusion. There are two main points. The first thing I'm asking you to pay attention to, and it's going to be important to consider the following, and not only these, but also those that will come to the Supreme Council, I think in large numbers, it's a matter of violating the rules for the conduct of the NHDR and the R & D as far as the people's deputies are concerned. In other words, colleagues, you're being interviewed, you're being recorded on video, that's all you're being watched, in violation of the 482nd Code of Criminal Procedure, there's no relevant information about the possible violation of the articles of the NAB Criminal Code in the Single Register of Investigative Investigations. As for the submission itself, I repeat, the committee considers it insufficiently justified, unmotivated and lacking sufficient evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u47	Thank you. And we're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. We've been through enough fast enough, and hopefully we'll just keep increasing the dynamics. I'll wait 30 seconds, but please. So I see they're coming into the hall. You're ready, aren't you? Thus, in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Dedej Eugène Sergiyovich. People's deputies, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:58:16]] For a hundred and Let me show you through the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Feed rejected. Colleagues, let's move on to the next submission. Next. The decision is not taken, the application is rejected, colleagues. Next submission of consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Long Oles Stanislavovich. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility to the national MP. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission by the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, of consenting to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Long Olesia Stanislavovic. The National Anticorruption Bureau has been conducting a criminal investigation since 13.06. In 2016, according to the signs of a criminal offence provided for in part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the abuse by the officials of the city of Kiev by the Council of Power in exercising authority in the face of the interests of the service of third parties, which has caused serious consequences to the interests of the State in the territorial community of Kiev. A preliminary investigation, according to the submission of the Code of Public Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, found that between 2007 and 2009, officials of the Kyiv City Council, the Kyiv City Public Administration, such as the deputy of the Kyiv City Head, the Secretary of the Kiev City Council of Longi, jointly with the officials of the Kyiv City Land Administration, the executive body of the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Administration and other persons, had granted approval on 01.10.2007, the adoption by the deputies of the Kiev City Council of the decision on the illegal transfer of land to 23 serving cooperatives, residential cooperatives for housing construction on 21 kilometres of the Capital Road in the Gausian district of Kiev, which were in fact located in the territory of the land-free area of the land. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 4 July, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, considered the submission of an agreement to bring the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Long Olezi Stanislavovic. The findings of the committee and the reported submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine were sent to you by e - mail and distributed on the registration desks in paper copies. Dear National Deputies! Now, for the answers to questions from members of the MPs and groups, the Ukrainian national deputies give the Attorney General of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. And I'm asking you to record a question from the MP factions and groups. Please hold the recording. Yuri Vitaliyovich, may I see you in the rostrum? The first is to ask the question, Sobolev Sergey of the faction of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u48	Sergey, the Fatherland faction. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, would you please tell us whether the facts have been investigated, I am not talking about the secret of the investigation, whether the submission is being prepared for the other members of the Kyiv City Council who are currently sitting in this session room? Who were in the Chernobyl faction and who voted and voted in favour of the same decisions on the allocation of the unique lands of the island of Zhukov, thousands, I did not mistake, hectares of land parks of the city of Kiev. And what's going to happen next with these people's deputies who, just like Mr. Long, did the same things. Our faction has decided to vote for this submission. And we think it's going to be science not only for the Kiev City MPs, but for everyone who hides behind collective irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u49	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u50	Thank you for asking. But before you answer that question, dear colleagues, I would like your attention. Failure to vote for the removal of parliamentary immunity only kills parliamentaryism. Don't doubt that in September I'll come with the same application, only more. Don't embarrass the Parliament, please. Vote in favour of the return to the vote on the first draft and vote in favour. If you're not at Lucenka's, you're killing parliamentaryism. Now he's looking at us without exaggerating the whole of Ukraine. I'm just addressing you both as an officer and as a former colleague. Don't kill Parliamentarianism, we'll all need it. And again. There is no one in this room who is to blame, but there is a law in this room that is the same for everyone. Please vote for the first time. And now essentially the second. Mr. Sobolev, Mr. Long is not accused of how he voted in favour or against. He is charged with gross violation of the Law on Local Self - Rule and Rules for the actions of an official called the Secretary of State. He called for an unspecified session. He commissioned one of his subordinates to deliver out of the voice a log of one and a half thousand, specifically 1,700 acres [1,700 ha] of land reserves and purchasers. Two persons were the founders of nine so - called cooperatives, who had practically stolen from China because of the abuse of their official duties as Secretary of the 1,700 acres [1,700 ha] of Zhukov Island, as well as the Order of Pyrogovo. This was done because the secretary of the land had placed the rules of procedure in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u51	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u52	And because he didn't hand over the materials, the MPs voted blind. I am very happy that this issue will become public. Then we, in the Henprosecutor’s Office, received a number of calls from dozens of people, including active deputies. For example, the deputy of Kyivrada at the time, Gorbal of the Party of the Regions, testified that no material was distributed; he was forced to vote. The cards voted for those in America at this time. It's all set. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u53	Please add 1 minute, this is important information.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u54	The question of how the MPs voted is a matter of political responsibility. And all those who went down with the "space team" of the Black-Long Kiev must answer politically as politicians. But an official such as Long, who was to put the matter to the vote under the Rules, to provide written explanations of urgency on each of these cadastral issues, to distribute these materials to the deputies, to explain what was going on, did not do so. And that's abuse. And he smiles, Oles Stanislavovich, well the one who smiles last. You're not going to give permission to take responsibility right now, you're going to go along with Chernevski in the fall. I say this directly and frankly: for this crime, the gravel of the land that the Henprocurator with me has returned to the Chinese, will have to answer the officials criminally. All those who supported you in one way or another will answer politically if, of course, we do not prove that they have received money or land.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u55	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u56	Please hand it over to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u58	What does it matter if the MPs who belong to one party, which is called "we spit at everyone but our own desire to get rich," continue to cover each other up. What Henprosecutor, what questions? We have a request for a speaker. The first is to provide a broadcast on the area under the Supreme Council, where there are a lot of people watching the vote. The second is to return to the vote and begin to agree to the work of the investigation. What questions could there be to the Attorney General, to any prosecutor, if Parliament is covering up its people exposed to corruption?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u59	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Sobolev, I answer you as the author of my decision to resign with great pleasure. By the way, I'd like to inform you that the higher court office today refused to take Lucenka out of office and reinstate Shakina, so you're the only one who wants my resignation now. But still, but nevertheless, I respectfully answer your questions, I mean, the list is your only one, and I will answer your question. Yes, in this case there's one nuance, it's called the "term of longevity," the term of the transfer of ownership into the hands of a fraud so-called "cooperator," by the way, the court canceled this "cooperator" as illegally created, the statute of limitations ends in January of the following year. Now, if you don't give permission, you're actually going to appear as judges who will make it impossible to bring the Long One to justice. This may be the only case and then there will be a sixth with Mr. Dobkin when it is up to you to decide whether or not there will be any effective attempt to go to court. If you do not now give a vote, each of you, honourable national deputies, must explain to your constituents why you are taking over the functions of the court and actually guarding the case for a thousand acres [1.5 ha] of dry land in the capital of Ukraine. I ask you not to become an accompaniment to those who did so during the reign of Yanukovich. Do not be complicit in covering this crime. I ask you very much to vote with all due respect for this submission. All factions, let the investigation and the court work and then the law will be one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u61	Belkova Olga Valentinovna gives the floor to Anatoly Matvijenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u62	Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have two questions for you. Don't you think it would be more right, considering everything that's going on in the last week and including all the sessions today, it's up to us to adopt the Zero Declaration Act with the corresponding payment of a certain tax that would take away all these insinuations and all these discussions today? And the second question, of course, is to be held accountable for disposing of the earth. But in your statement that you gave, including today from the rostrum, you said that the regular order of the session was broken and that it was a violation of the law, but the regulations and order of the session was not the law of any village council. Please give me an explanation, why do you think this is a violation of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u63	Thank you, thank you. Starting with the second question, the Law on Local Self-Government obliges any self-government body, including Kyivradu, to establish regulations for its actions, which clearly prescribes the rights and duties of officials, particularly the Secretary of State. And it was this requirement of the law, which was declared mandatory for law enforcement, that was violated by an official. Any official in the state, including local self-government, must be governed by the Constitution, the law and the powers delegated to him. These powers were used by Olesia Stanislavovich Long to conduct the issue of illegal separation for an illegal cooperative of some 1,000 acres [1,700 ha] of land in one day, in one day. Therefore, as an official, he is suspected of being more loyal after you have made your decision to be suspicious, and we cannot announce the suspicion to him. The facts now show that his actions are evidence of a criminal offence that is prescribed as an abuse of official duties that has led to particularly serious consequences. These results are a few tens of millions of dollars, only at the estimated cost of the land. Now the expertise sets market value. I'm sure it'll be billions of dollars. Now, on your first question, when I was here, as a national deputy, I also suggested from this rostrum that at our faction leaders' meetings, I would propose a zero-declaration law that would allow for the payment of money forgotten to many people's deputies. But, Mr. Anatoly, and it's not too late today when we get to the issue of paying taxes, we can just go and pay them off, and this article 212 will be closed, not paying taxes. If anyone wants to politicize it, it's their right, but taxes in this country are to be paid by everyone. If you pass the zero-declaration law that.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u64	Questions from Musiychuk Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u65	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, before asking two very short questions, I would like to ask you publicly to explain to your SAP subordinate Mr. Nazar Holdnick, what parliamentary control is. And when the Committee on Law Enforcement, where we used to work with you, invites an anti-corruption prosecutor, because he's always violating the CPC, he has to come -- that's how it is. And the questions are very short. Please tell me, how many Speakers of Parliament and City Heads are you prepared to bring criminal responsibility for breaking the Rules tomorrow? That's the first one. And the second. Is it true that before this application was made, you approached Olesia Long and offered to give him an introduction to Leonid Czernovecki, and only after his refusal did you submit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u66	Thank you. First, I will submit only for the active national deputies regarding other measures, secretaries, as well as other officials of local self - government, glory to God, and no parliamentary permission is required. However, the sixth submission I made to Mr. Dobkin is very similar to what we are discussing right now. Mr. Dobkin was the head of the Kharkiv City Council and, along with his secretary Kernes, made exactly the same affair and would be drawn in exactly that order. [[Applause]] True, Mr. Dobkin is untouchable, and Mr. Kernes is touched, so Mr. Kernes' suspicions will be announced as soon as the investigator and the prosecutor agree. As for Mr. Dobkin, only when you give me that opportunity. It's about Mr. Long. Yes, I had an interview with him; yes, as an official, I suggested that I tell him about the role of Mr. Chernewetsk during this kind of session, because I am getting more and more facts that prove that this session was convened illegally and was held illegally. Mr. Longiy refused to give such a demonstration, although it was not a protocol, but a conversation between two officials: Henprosecutor and national deputy. But I will, and now I will say, all equal before the law, whether Mr. Long wants to show or not. He would be called to criminal responsibility himself, and Chernewsky would also answer, according to current legislation, for good reason he had left Georgia for the blessed land of Israel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u67	Thank you. And the last question from the People's Front. Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u68	Yuri Vitaliyovich, we have heard that you now have two submissions concerning former officials of local self-government: Kharkiv and Kiev. Please tell me, these are the cities of the millionaires, where there will be widespread abuse, and will there be the same prosecution and violation of criminal cases involving officials of the local self-governance of the district centers? In particular, the city of Chernivci, where in 2011, after the city's head had been illegally removed, came the pro-regional, firmashian majority, led by the city secretary of Mishilish and handed over the "Chernivitziobgas" to municipal property for more than 23 million dollars. And so far, Chernitziobgas, which is controlled by Firtash-Lyvecken, is making money from the community, getting payments from them, instead of having any criminal case. Will the same cases be brought against those of local self - government who in time Janukovich was robbed by local communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u69	Thank you. For any official in whose actions a criminal offence, abuse, exaggeration (the truth is decriminalized), theft, falsification, and so on, criminal conduct may be violated. I didn't order a table, so I'm here to accept who to break, who not to break. [[Applause]] But if you write an official statement, of course we'll respond. Just as we react to the other heads of the land. I can say that one of the heads from a district center that has no immunity, a case that is practically completed by his abuse of land theft, and will be transferred to a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office by the end of this week. I don't think a faction would like that. If the other facts are given to me, we will react in the same way to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u70	Thank you. The time spent asking questions from factions and groups is over. Yuri Vitaliovich, thank you. Questions are coming up, and the speeches will be next. I explained in detail at the outset, and I ask that you listen carefully. And, colleagues, I want to remind you, we have a little bit of a strange atmosphere in this room: we're not here in court and we're not here investigative, we're only here to give permission so that the investigating authorities can do their job so that the court can do their job. I don't think there's any faction here that, when you go to the election, would promise to remove the parliamentary immunity, and requires today. And it can't be our position on the air that's different from our position in the room. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to change the atmosphere. All those who speak out for lifting parliamentary immunity today have the opportunity to demonstrate it by their vote. And I would like to invite you to the presentation to explain to the National Deputy of Ukraine Long Olesia Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u71	Dear Chairman, for a purpose. I'm still asking you to pay attention to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u72	They're distracting me. I'm asking them not to distract me. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u73	With the aim of saving the time of a highly esteemed meeting, I would like to ask, instead of two speeches, one summary before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u74	How many minutes? For three minutes will it be enough to sum it up? Three minutes will be enough to sum it up? Five minutes, I think it'll be fine. We're going to add two minutes and five minutes -- the final performance, I think it's completely normal. I'll ask you a question, okay? So that we don't break any procedural problems. So, colleagues, we still have a speech from. the committee's statement of appearance. First, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Please, five minutes, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u75	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, discussed the committee with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, and with the participation of the People's Deputies of Long Olesia, the submission of an agreement to bring the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine. The Deputy Attorney General, Head of the Specialised AntiCorruption Prosecutorial Office of the Netherlands Nazar Ivanovich, initiated the application. He asks to consider the submission and consent to the criminal responsibility of the Long People’s Deputy. The report states that the trial found that between 2007 and 2009, officials of the Kyiv City Council, the Kyiv City Public Administration, such as the deputy of the Kyiv City Head, the Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior of Longi, in violation of the rules of the Kiev City Council, together with the officials of the Kyiv City Department of Land Administration and other persons, provided for the approval or adoption by the deputies of the Kyiv City Council of decisions on the illegal transfer of land to the private property of a legal person and resulting in damage to the State. The Committee concluded that, according to part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the authorities of the State, local authorities, their officials are obliged to act only on the basis, within the framework of, in a manner specified, by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. Instead, the rules of the Kiev City Council are not law. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council Rules have just been approved by law, which is what I'm going to talk about in the final word. The Committee considers that the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of Ukraine's Long People's Deputies is legal because it is initiated and properly submitted, but it contains substantial shortcomings in the justification for the abuse by the Ukrainian People's Deputies of the Long Authority of the Secretary of the Kiev City Council, as well as in the intention to abuse the power vested in third parties, which has not been established at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u76	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we have statements from factions and groups, and then from national MPs. First, I'm going to post a statement from factions and groups. Please hold the recording. From the Radical Party, the word is given to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u77	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, our team has listened very carefully to Attorney General Lucenk's statement. And from that statement, we realized that the main fault of our colleague was that he had signed a decision contrary to the Rules. I am on this point, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliyovich, and I am addressing the anti-corruption prosecutor, Mr. Nazar Holodnicki, because Mr. Lucenko himself can't bring a case against himself, and I'm announcing my statement as a parliamentary request for a request to file, to start an investigation into the following fact of the crime. I would like to remind you all how many times in this House, contrary to the requirements of the Rules Act, have voted on the law that has allowed Lucenka to become the Attorney General. 20 times in this House, at the request of President Dustenk, it is illegal, since the Rules of Procedure Act stipulates that, if the law is rejected, it cannot be considered at the current session any longer, but only at the next one, regardless of these direct requirements of the Rules Act, unlike the regulations of the local councils, the Law "On the Rules of the Supreme Council" is the law, and everyone must comply with them. Contrary to the requirements of the Rules Act, the law was illegally amended to appoint Mr. Lucenk as Attorney General of Ukraine. I see this as a sign of a conspiracy between President Prashenko, his best man and a relative of Attorney General Lucenk in order to seize power, monopolize power, usurpation and abuse of power. Moreover, illegal pressure on parliament, illegal decision - making, and misuse of purpose, including the personal wealth that this authority gives. I'm asking the anti-corruption prosecutor to consider my statement as a parliamentary request. In accordance with the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, statements and parliamentary requests by the National MP are grounds for the inclusion in the ERDF and for the violation of criminal conduct. You have violated criminal conduct against me on the basis of publications on the Internet, and I hope that my statement from the Parliamentary Chamber will be quite sufficient as an official to violate the criminal conduct against Attorney General Lucenck for violating the law, for abuse of power, for unlawful appointment as Attorney General. That's the first one. The second is about Long. Our faction votes in favour of bringing Long to criminal responsibility. Thousands of acres of land have to be held accountable for the debris of the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u78	Just let me tell you, colleagues, since there's been a request for a violation of the Rules in this room. I now make a public promise to everyone: if a submission is made about me, I will urge the deputies to be persuaded to vote for it by the Supreme Council. I find it unacceptable when the room does not vote for the removal of parliamentary immunity. I think it's unacceptable, this atmosphere that's in the hall when we have a sense of a circled atmosphere. And so I urge everyone once again to vote for the removal of parliamentary immunity on all applications. I'm sorry, I have a right to talk about this. I was once wanted to take off the MP's immunity under the Harkow Agreements in that room. I was in the hall, I wasn't afraid, I was saying, vote, colleagues! Today we have to show the whole country a worthy answer to the challenge. Today, we are being watched by all of Ukraine, our international partners. Do you understand that, my friends? Do you understand every vote and every voice that weighs? And so, my friends, I call for responsibility and responsible voting. I now give my word to the next, Novak Natalija Vasilovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, the case is that the prosecution has appealed to the court and has won all the courts' offices on the theft of Kyiv lands, particularly the lands of particular value on the island of Zhukov. So there is a fact of crime. If there is a crime, then he is the organizer of the crime. And when do we say, who organized it? Is there collective irresponsibility? No, of course not. There's always a person who organized this. In this case, he did not just serve as the secretary of the Kiev City Council, but under the Ukrainian Law "On the Capital and the City Hero of Kiev" he was the deputy of the city's head, the secretary of the Kiev City Council. He acquired the authority of the city’s head when he was in charge of the session because he had the right to hold the session only when the head was not able to lead it. The head on that day was in place like all other days. Long opened the session, he organized the session. opened the session when there was no quorum. The Law on Local Self - Government clearly states that a session can be held when more than half the deputies are present. The long one organized the vote when there were no more than half of them, voting with foreign cards, including duplicates, but each time it was called the number 65, 67 — a falsification of the decision of the Kiev City Council. Is the Long Responsibility for Breaking the Rules? Yes, regulations are not law, but article 44 of the Constitution makes it clear that the decision of local self - government bodies, local councils, is mandatory for implementation. Long was also an official of local self - rule. The Law on Service in Local Self - Government makes it clear that representatives of local authorities bear civil, administrative, and criminal responsibility for their actions. It should also be said that Long was sworn in by an employee of local self - government agencies. And in his oath, he said that, conscious of my high responsibility, I solemnly swear to serve the community and the people faithfully, to protect the freedoms and legitimate interests of the citizens. Please tell me, when a thousand thousand acres of land were allocated in one day for free when the community did not get a penny, which is billions and billions of dollars, so I have a question, who and how did the community of Kiev protect? Who Stole the Earth? And they also say, should we be exempt from taxation? Pay taxes for the money you didn't pay? You can pay off your debt if you've earned that money. But if, please, can you pay taxes for stolen property, for stolen land in kyans that cost billions of dollars?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Natalia. From the Self-Help faction, we'll take the floor of the Roman Semenich People's Deputy. And we've only got three factions. Will they be willing of other factions? Please let me know, okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u81	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Representatives of the Attorney General! This Parliament was elected by people, people who had been expecting that, after all the events of the Dignity Revolution, this very cadence of the Supreme Council would finally end the disgraceful oligarchy cycle message rudimentaryness -- the parliamentary integrity. However, two and a half years later, even in a terrible dream, people could not dream that this Supreme Council would not simply undo the parliamentary integrity, it would continue to cover, continue the circular message of our individual colleagues. Moreover, after real submissions have been made to this Supreme Council regarding our individual colleagues, some of our colleagues have again assumed the role of lawyer, judge, investigator, or prosecutor. People, we all promised you, all without exception of the faction, to undo the parliamentary inviolability. What has changed? I urge you to stop this and immediately withdraw from all deputies the MP's integrity. Because, agree, the Ukrainian national deputy has fewer opportunities than a common man to stand up for his honor and dignity in court if he is not really guilty before the law. I understand that this story is more up to date than ever before with the question of the institution of parliamentary immunity. The Self-Help faction worked out a bill that narrows down parliamentary immunity considerably. Because today there is an extensive parliamentary immunity, not by 80 articles of the Constitution, but by a series of bills that actually made a caste of untouchables to this Supreme Council and many cadences to us. And our job is to cancel this immunity. Our bill envisages shortening the terms of consideration of the regulatory committee from 20 to one day. In turn, consider three plenary days at a meeting of the Supreme Council. Allow me to search for Ukrainian national deputies, their homes, their possessions as ordinary citizens. And finally, it will give the opportunity for the Ukrainian national deputy to initiate the withdrawal of the parliamentary immunity and to bring responsibility. Dear colleagues, voting for criminal responsibility today is not the only decision today that can save this Parliament and restore confidence in this state's highest institution of the President. Excuse me, parliamentary-presidential republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u82	Thank you. Are there any other factions willing to speak? Yes, dear colleagues, from factions. Yes. From Fatherland, Lucenko Igor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the best submission of the Attorney General's Office we've seen in the past week is in Lesik Dugoma. And I am deeply grateful to the Attorney General and other institutions of our law enforcement that have actually prepared the end of this ten-year era with the colossal derby of Kyiv land. This appeal is exceptionally well - founded, since all the Chinese, in fact, witnessed what happened in 2007, these colossal violations. And the witnesses have proven enough of this evidence to make us understand that there are arguments for removing the MP's immunity from Oles Long. I'll do the analogy. There's thinking that this is selective justice. But in fact, no, there's a January 16 issue about Parliament, where there have been absolutely similar violations that have led to even more tragic consequences. So that this should not be repeated in our local councils, in our Parliament, this is a matter of utmost importance. And I urge everyone not only to vote for the Kyiv land, the well-being of the Chinese, the capital, so that our nation does not have a repeat of such enormously dangerous precedents. We all vote yes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u84	I understand that the factions have ended the performances, there are no more who want it. I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. Please, on record, colleagues. Please, the non-fractional Oleg Osuhovski. Passes the word to Illenku, right? Please turn on Andrew Illenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u85	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to point out, first of all, that you know, politics has to be responsible. As long as we have before each election all of us, without exception, candidates in the MPs, all of the parties will tell people in particular that they are against the MP's in touch, that they will cancel it, and then from the vocation of vocation, from year to year, even from decade to decade, this issue is being explained, delayed and not resolved, the matter is no longer the very thing of the inviolability, the issue of lies, irresponsibility and the mistrust that arises between, in fact, the people and the state, the leadership of the state. And when that happens, it's very dangerous for the state itself. So, of course, we, the free people, vote for all applications, because we believe that the law is one for all, we all have to take responsibility on an equal footing with all the other Ukrainian citizens. We understand that as long as there is this unlimited in touch, unfortunately, Parliament will continue to be a business club in most of it to resolve some of its private interests, but it will not be a place where useful laws are actually created for the state. And because this problem needs to be solved, we call on all MPs who have not yet signed to sign this application, which will allow us to unlock the issue of changes to the Constitution, because the changes that have now been made and the Constitutional Court are effectively blocked, because they have already been made changes to the parts where they are proposed to be submitted, that is, there is a legal coalition and we need to essentially start again. And now we're going to propose to everyone to sign this new application, to finally resolve this issue, and to take it out of the political order of the day forever. We believe that there should be no intrusiveness, no parliamentary, no judicial, no presidential. But even if it's only about the MP right now, we're willing to vote even in that form. And, of course, I'd like to tell the MPs that we're being followed closely, there's now a rally under the Supreme Council, there are hundreds of people gathered, I think they're going to become more and more. Now the workday ends, the Chinese and the guests of the cities will come to the Supreme Council and demand justice, demand equality before the law, demand the completion of feudalism, a circular message in Ukrainian politics. We're going to vote for all submissions and we're going to urge everyone to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u86	Thank you. Next word, please, to the National Deputy Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u87	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u88	Please, Yuri Lewchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u89	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. You know, I'd like to point out one manipulation that the Attorney General is talking about, and a lot of people in this room are talking about removing the inviolability of this without arrest and arrest. Untouching occurs only when the Supreme Council not only votes for a permit to bring criminal responsibility, but also for a permit to arrest and arrest, because a permit to bring criminal responsibility without arrest is nothing. Similarly, this MP cannot be arrested, nor can he be detained by a wealthy national MP, but a wealthy national MP, unfortunately 90 percent, can always escape. And actually, that's why I'm talking to all my colleagues, normal colleagues, who are saying that let's simplify the procedure of subtracting immunity. Yes, it is necessary to do so, to simplify the procedure, of course. But, people good, let's do it all together, I'm especially talking to conscious MPs, telling the Ukrainian people the truth at last. As long as there is a paragraph in the Constitution of Ukraine that is quoted as "the national MPs of Ukraine cannot be without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to criminal responsibility, detention or arrest", while this is a paragraph of the Constitution, a never-rich national MP who has ties with the executive power, will not sit, it is simply a fact, it is a reality, it will always be able to either agree or flee. And so voting for those who say, because there are also a lot of public activists, they say that's why it works sometimes when it's completely intact, let's do it one at a time. Once upon a time, Lozinski was exposed to the situation with Dade. Just a few minutes ago, the Supreme Council showed who's sitting here, what's in the circle. Now let's see what they're going to show for Lesik Long, the colonel of Chernewecki, who destroyed Kiev for many years, especially in the context that today friends of Lesik Long, who were in one of the ruling coalitions in the city council of Chernewsky, are now in a dominant faction. Why isn't anyone talking about it, society? Did Lesika Longo get the bill right? And Mr. Berezenko, and Mr. Connonenko, who were in the appropriate faction of Chernewsky, who voted for all these things, why did everyone forget about it, why didn't they have an application? There must be a submission. But the best thing that all of these people can be held accountable without any input, which is simply, as any citizen, could have opened a criminal case, could have gone to trial, and could have been planted if there had been a normal court of course, that's why we need to change the Constitution. So sign it, sign it, or someone doesn't want to sign it, they don't want to sign it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u90	Next National MP, Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u91	Thank you. Yuri Vitaliovich, I'd like to see you. First of all, thank you for launching such a positive precedent. For breaking the rules of local councils, one should be responsible. But what you would like to say is that you should tell your subjects to respond properly to the appeals of their national deputies, since hundreds of deputies on various councils throughout Ukraine are breaking the rules and thus decommissioning the land. And we're talking to the prosecutors at the local level, and we just don't give a shit. And now for Lesik Long. Lesik Longi, Czernovetský, Berezenko are ideologies for the bribery of voters in Ukraine. It was they who created the bribe of poverty, they gave the Greek, and instead they got the votes, they manipulated the human soul, the human destiny. So I'm asking the entire Ukrainian Parliament to stop and think for a second, if we don't bring these ideologists of all our troubles to account, we don't just have to do what we do here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u92	There's only one left. Two minutes and, please, a word to the People's Deputy-- excuse me, two-- to the People's Deputy of the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u93	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Andry Volodymyrovich, first of all, when you were elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 April 2016, you promised to abide by it, to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". Thus, according to part three of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not only members, representatives of factions, but also national deputies ask the Attorney-General. For the rest of the time, I'm asking you to tell my colleague Mustafa Najem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u94	According to the Rules that I promised to keep, it is impossible to pass on the word. And that's why we had to start from the beginning. My colleagues, I would like to emphasise now, the next performance that should be is the Birdman. I give the floor to The Bird of Victoria Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! I'd like to remind you of our primary function, we're law-makers, and we're in law-making, we're not investigative, we're not in court, we're not doing an evaluation here of the activities of other people's deputies, we're not sentencing, we're not vindictive. That's why I want to say that we have to vote today on all the motions for each MP to remove the MP's inviolability. We need to allow law enforcement authorities to fully investigate, conduct all the necessary follow-up actions: searches, removals, and removals from the channels of communication, and so forth. You know, last week, our government was actually with a delegation in Britain at a major conference in Ukraine, where our European colleagues were publicly surprised, and what kind of immunity exists in Ukraine, which allows us to avoid criminal responsibility instead of protecting exclusively parliamentary activity, as it is in European countries. You know, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich, I didn't vote for your appointment as Attorney General, but I support all of your submissions. I sincerely want all of your law enforcement agencies to carry out their work professionally, so that you can succeed professionally, without disrupting the process, to prove responsibility, including national MPs. And I want to turn to you, Yuri Vitaliovich, and ask you not to stop in this Parliament there are many national MPs who need your attention. Moreover, your attention is needed by members of the Cabinet of Ministers and other high-level bodies, please work, and do your work effectively. And I hope that this Parliament will not make the same mistake that Dadey has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u96	So, colleagues, we're moving to closing statements and I invite you to the closing statement of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka of Ukraine. Yuri Vitaliovich, please, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the discussion and for the willingness shown to vote in favour of my submission. At the same time, I hope that such statements will be materialized as a result of the vote. Once again, the question now is not about a single MP, but now the question is, is there a whole country with an edge to the question, is there a "cassette of untouchables" in our country? I want to ask you not to commit political suicide. You're national MPs! National MPs, not members of the National Deputies Self-Defense Club. Today, responsible decisions are needed regarding the five national deputies, and only then will you be able to go to the district with a calm conscience. Now separate from the alleged crime of breaking the Lucenko Rules and so on. Regrettably, the reverend declared, as always, a mistake. The thing is, I personally, like my wife, didn't vote for the Attorney General's election. Moreover, serious consequences must come if a violation of the Rules is to become a crime. Lucenka Henprocurorate’s defense has had a serious impact on the corrupters, Oleg Valeriyovich. If you feel so much pain for them and consider it a serious result, I am proud of it. I did, I did, and I'll do everything I can to get any untouched or touched corrupter to sit where you were, Oleg Valeriyovich, for your machinations in the Lieutenant Colonel's police uniform when you stole a service car. There's got to be all the same corrupts. Now it's about me personally. Don't be jealous of my house, Oleg Valeriyovich. My wife and my son paid taxes after the front. From an amount that's estimated at several million dollars. With sums. I have a reason to live in my house, to feed my family, my cat, my dog, and even to ask where you live, Oleg Valeriyovich! So I think that today people who think this Attorney General is bad are just getting ready for the next application. They are fearful, afraid to answer the questions of the investigation, holding on like a lice of fur, this unfortunate parliamentary integrity. Please make a precedent that an honest MP is not afraid of anything. I guarantee objectivity in any case, even in Oleg Valeriovich's case. I guarantee it, no matter who I treat, the law will. But please take off this feudal rudimentary, make the MPs human, touch his greatness of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u98	Colleagues, I'll give you a line, but I would like to point out that mention of a national MP is presupposed to give a line, and I'd like you to avoid it. [[Noise Nodes]] When I did. Colleagues, come on, colleagues, it's not about remembering, it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u99	Accused of protecting corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u100	So one minute, please. Please continue to avoid similar names. There are many forms of naming a national deputy without a name. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! You just admitted from the Parliamentary Court that the house that was built on your test belongs to you. This means that you have false information to the electronic declaration. I'm asking the anti-corruption prosecutor to violate criminal conduct, investigate this fact and file a motion for the discharge of the Attorney General, to bring criminal responsibility. And another thing, Yuri Vitaliyovich, is that you have a short memory. You're telling me I was sitting, you were sitting. Yuri Vitaliyovich, and they were sitting on your well-known charges. And the main problem that you had when you were sitting there was that you were complaining about cirrhosis roasted for some reason. So I advise and recommend, and I want you to always be healthy when you get caught next time for abuse, for breaking the law, for abuse of office.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I ask you to remove the emotional tension. Today, the whole world is watching us, and Ukrainian society is watching us. I ask you to stop the interpersonal harassment, not to mention the surnames, the names of the national deputies, and the factions, which obliges me, when there are charges, to give a reply, and to avoid it. Colleagues, I ask everyone to focus, we are making truly historic decisions for the Ukrainian Parliament, which will determine his future fate. I want everyone to take a responsible approach to the vote and to the discussion. At the meeting before the discussion, I called on everyone to hold discussions as properly as possible so that we could go to a positive vote. Burns in the hall will lead to negative votes. I also urge you to focus on voting, on positive voting, not on political upheaval. So, colleagues, I now give the floor to Long Olesia Stanislavovich. And I'll add two minutes if necessary, yes, three minutes, predicted. Three, maybe two minutes, if you ask them. Then Pinzenic. And in five minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. Please, colleagues, call all deputies to the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite deputies. Colleagues, he had 15 minutes to perform, he asked for 5. That'll save us some time, I think. Please, Oles Long, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u103	I asked for an extra five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u104	All right, extra.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, of course, as to me, as to a man who had just received another batch of accusations, false ones that had already reached Yanukovich, before, there, from 80 to 800, or 1,000 800, hectares and so forth, there was a very heated discussion. I wouldn't want to take your time, I wouldn't want us to turn this into a battalion, but I would like to draw your attention to this issue essentially. I think most of you have had the opportunity to observe a meeting of the regulatory committee. But those who didn't have the option, I'm going to let myself remind myself briefly of two simple ones literally. Thesis one. The Attorney General said that all and all that was being accused of was a violation of the Rules. Thesis Two: The same party literally said that the Rules are not and cannot be law. In answer to a simple question that is clear to each of you today, regardless of your political position, it's obvious what I'm about to tell you. I broke the rules, the law didn't go wrong. Now that I have returned to the Rules, my esteemed colleagues, and before and in what way we violated it with you in this high-priority session hall, I am reminded of the events of the year-old age, where you and I, by breaking the Rules, have made a number of changes to the current legislation of Ukraine in order to appoint a person without legal education to the post of Attorney General. And I've been dragging this decision along with you, and I'm sorry because I'm with you. [[Applause]] Thank you for the applause, let me finish. I repent because, like you, I voted in favour of Yuri Vitaliovich because I hoped that he, as a man in whose fate such difficult trials had come upon him as a man on his own skin, who felt that lawlessness, what a barrier to the power structures, would never use in his life the high rank and authority that we had given him to you, to find out personal relationships or for an image of the past. We all hoped that he would devote his work to the future. And when I say "future," friends like you, I mean not populism for future elections, but I mean honest, monotonous, daily work for future generations. When I went to this rostrum, I won a difficult decision for myself, with which I will address you, my honourable colleagues. And you know, when I realize that after your vote, I have an uncomplicated stage in my life, in my courts, in my prosecutors, in my lawyers, and so on. I believe that courage is given to a person in order to have the power at a difficult time to make a responsible decision. So I'm a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u106	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u107	So I, my esteemed colleagues, as a human being consistent and responsible, am asking you to support this worthless, legally speaking, submission. I thank you for your applause and support, but I'll explain to you why I'm asking you to support him. In order to give me the opportunity to fulfill one of my pre-election promises, to give me the opportunity once and for all to put a stop to all the numbers of absurd accusations that I and my family have had to hear in recent years. So, honourable colleagues, what I think is not just how to put a dot in the past, I'm thinking about my future. And this is the future I see in Ukraine. Because all that matters to me is my family, my friends, my electorate, my own business, it's all Ukrainian. And as my grandfather said in his covenant, "Don't break like a little child in distress, and don't be afraid when the thunder strikes. Let the courage of a Cossack breed inspire you and guide you." Dear friends! I ask you to make your responsible decision. I thank you for your attention and opportunity to speak. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u108	Thank you. It's not a vote yet. Here comes Paul Vasilovich Pinzenika. The first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules and Organization of Work, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, is invited to the closing statement. Then the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u109	Dear colleagues! I don't speak as well as the Attorney-General and as Oles Long. Let me draw attention to three points that the Regulatory Committee has drawn attention to. Moment number one. This is certainly criminal conduct, which we are talking about, of course, is to some extent a precedent for all local self-government authorities and officials who work on the basis of their own internal procedures, it is obvious. The other one. This is a precedent, including for Parliament. We certainly appreciate the courage of our Head, who is ready for any development. But, nevertheless, the question is not only in him, it's a matter in Parliament. One second. All of us have read in the media about possible abuses in the division of the land of the so - called Zhukov Island landscaper. Have we learned anything new from the application? Sadly, no. And moment number three. I can't help but answer my colleague's warning that we should be able to download information from telecommunications. So once again, I ask my colleagues not to live in illusions, and it's been happening for a long time without our consent. And with this you have to live, somehow you have to react, head in the sand you can't dive in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u110	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to a decision and I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. Please come into the hall, not out. And I, in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Long Oles Stanislavovich. He called for support for this submission. This is a courageous, responsible step. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[6:05:12]] For 251 Submission supported, decision taken. I immediately inform the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine that section 9 of article 221 of the Rules of Procedure had been adopted. Colleagues, before I go to second gear, I'll still make a message. And I'll say, I've convened a meeting before the session starts and I've asked you not to translate interpersonal conflicts. In addition, I find it unacceptable to make a personal accusation against both the Attorney General and his family. It's incorrect, we're all colleagues, we're all representatives of the government, and today we all need to be responsible to each other. Interpersonal quarrels and political squabbles can lead to a lack of positive decisions. This is my request and appeal to all the national deputies. So the next submission. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next submission is the consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy of Ukraine Lozov Andrija Sergiyovich. Thus, the distinguished national MPs, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, agree to bring criminal responsibility to the national MP. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, of consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Sergiyovich. The Department of Investigation of Particularly Important Matters in the Economics of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is conducting a judicial investigation in criminal proceedings since 20.06. In 17 C.E., according to article 212 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, section two of the Criminal Code. According to a case-by-case investigation by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Lozová Andrija Sergiyovicz was found to have deliberately evaded the payment of taxes and assemblies from 01.01.2007 to 31.12.2015, which led to an actual lack of funds in large amounts. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 05 July, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, considered the submission of an agreement on the criminalization of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Andrija Sergiyovich. The findings of the committee and the procurator's appointment were sent to you by e-mail and distributed on the registration tables in paper copies. For answers to questions from members of the MPs and groups, Ukrainian national deputies are provided by Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, Attorney General of Ukraine. May I remind you, 15 minutes and request that you record a question to the Attorney General, please? Please hold the recording. The recording is done. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, Self-help. Danchenko Alexander!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u111	Please tell Aunty Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u112	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u113	Dear Mr. Attorney General, we support all submissions as I have already stated from this highly esteemed rostrum, but I would like to ask you two very specific questions. In the report, you note that as a result of deliberate wrongs against the State of Loz, large - scale damage has been caused to the State in the form of a lack of income to the tax and congregation budgets, where there are more than 3,000 NMDGs. The very disposition of the crime of tax evasion does not provide for the possibility of causing damage to the State, but it is precisely the amount of non-receivable to the budgets of the trust funds of the corresponding amount of taxes that is the trailer I am to the lawyer. And second position. I'd like to ask you what evidence the total income of Lozov is proving, because from the submission I see that these are only state records of the State Fiscal Service while the base of the personification has been on us since 1998.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u114	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u115	We've had a personalization base since 1998, and it could have gotten revenue before you saw it in a personification database. And the second position, not all income is reflected in this base, and we encountered this when we filled out the declaration. And so if Lozov doesn't have any other sources of inheritance, or gifts from his mother-in-law, I'd like you to tell us clearly now about the evidence that confirms the existence of such tax revenue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u116	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in January of this year, the Pecher District Court approved the appointment of a pre-planned documentary review of the citizen of Lozov Andrija Sergiyyovich (adopted) and commissioned the State Fiscal Service to do so. In February the state’s fiscal service issued an act on the results of a documentary nondepartmental check on the timeliness, reliability, and fullness of the collection and payment of the tax. It's documented by the State Fiscal Service that how much he's had in his lifetime and the 98th story from which the base began to be filled, and in this case he can't help Mr. Lozo because he only started his work in 2008. So after that, an act was made, then a tax notice was made, a decision that was sent to the place of residence of the national MP, in accordance with the law. Also, the national deputy was summoned for questioning where, thanks to him, he appeared and showed that, first, he had been trading trees in the city of Plains since he was 14. From the Plain, I remember how much the trees cost, I guess, to earn 80,000 dollars, 150,000 euros, and 800,000 dollars, it was necessary to cut the forest from the Plain to the Costropile. Second, he showed that he had an inheritance from his relative in the Plain region, the land, and the house. In all the databases, neither this relative nor his own land nor his home. And third, he showed that he had a Moscow grandfather composer who had an apartment, and a piano, which Mr. Lozova, as he claimed for questioning, sold for a thousand bracelets, he said nothing about the apartment itself. Even after I made the submission, it was obvious that the defense of the deputy of the people explained to him that after earning 234 thousand dollars in my lifetime, in my lifetime, to show him close.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u118	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u119	One minute, if you'll excuse me. Showing about 9 million dollars of assets at home in money: bracelets, dollars, euros, is softly unreasonable and filed with the court on a tax notice, that's his right, of course. But in the meantime, we've conducted expert expertise and concluded that, in fact, 717 thousand dollars of taxes and 129 thousand dollars of the military community are to be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u120	Please let me finish for another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u121	I want to emphasize once again, I am objectively addressing this issue, even though the fact that at the moment the SAP brought me a submission on the illegal enrichment of Lozov, having considered this submission, I find it groundless, at this point there is no such evidence, and I returned it to the SAP. Once again, I guarantee legality, and that's why I treat any submission objectively. There is an objective way of paying taxes from my point of view. Either this can be done voluntarily before a statement of suspicion is made, or everything will have to be clarified in court, and the Criminal Code provides for appropriate punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u122	Please let the Attorney General finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u123	In order to go this way, I need the consent of the Supreme Council, and there will be a suspicion, a closed trial, and perhaps a judicial investigation will begin. It's the same way for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u124	Thank you. Next question, Moses Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u125	Your Honor, Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have a number of very specific legal questions for you. At a meeting of the Regulatory Committee in the presence of colleagues, they're here in the hall, and I've made an application for crime by the State Fiscal Service because I want everyone to know that the tax notice has not been given to Andrew Lozova today. I want everyone to know that they've filed a charge against the court for the tax notice, which was given to the Attorney General. And the fact that it didn't come to Andrew's house, I also say, because the request came from the DFS to our Parliament's apparatus and they're asking, and where Andrew Sergiyovich Lozova lives, we want to give it to him. So I have a specific question, I'm just asking you to say yes or no. Has my application to the GDR been filed with the DFS officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u126	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u127	I can't give you an answer, I'll give it to you tomorrow by checking the only register. In a single register, there are about 1 million 700,000 runs. I do not take this application there and cannot trace the daily activities of the relevant officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u128	Thank you. Two speakers were enrolled, and they asked questions, and so we finished questions from the national deputies. And now the word for explanation is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Lozov Andrija Sergiyovich. Please, Andrew Sergiyovich. You're from the rostrum. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u129	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Dear colleagues! "Untouched are you ours," as the brilliant prosecutor Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko like he wasn't here himself, as if he had appeared to us from somewhere else: honest, unforgivable, without political motivation, legally literate. In this room, your esteemed colleagues are untouchable, there are plenty of professional lawyers, none of them can tell me what it is. It's called filing with the Attorney General's Office to bring me into criminal liability. It's the third time I've had a personal application, one from Shokin, the other from you, Yuri Vitaliovich, in this case I'm a record player, which I'm proud of, and I'm going to make a declaration. It's macular, it's legal, it's garbage, it's not legal, it's not legal, it's professional, unlike you, Yuri Vitaliyovich. You told me at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee, "Learn, smart man." I tell you, I'm a student in law school. You too could give in and learn. I would ask you very much to listen carefully to who did not read, having a legal fact. That's a plea for attracting Lozov's deputy to criminal responsibility. It's the 20.06, the 21st.06. In one day, the case of a national MP was investigated. Is that even how it is? Could it be "no trial and no investigation"? Here's the pitch. On the very record, you appeal to the conclusion of the DFS and to the decision of the most honest and incorruptible Pechersky District Court, which you mentioned here in this rostrum. In particular, Judge Litwinov, who was a conflict of interest in the Pecher District Court, ruled on me: Judge Litwinov, after the trial of a volunteer, Ukrainian patriot Volodymyr Hrotzkov, who was in charge of me as well as dozens of other volunteers, Judge Litwinov wrote a statement to the National Police. It is a conflict of interest to me. And now, dear colleagues, I'm going to take this opportunity to say something that's not entirely correct, something that's not legally correct. But given that there were distinguished colleagues from different factions and non-factional groups speaking out of their political agenda, maybe I have the right to do so. The Radical Party Program The Light is clearly black in white for many years "removal of parliamentary integrity, removal of the integrity of the judges, the possibility of impeachment of the President, the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions." [[Applause]] These were voted by the First Assembly of the Radical Party on August 7, 2011. [[Applause]] On which I, Yuri Vitaliyovich, received the party ticket 0000002, the second number, the second party ticket. I'm proud of it, it's valuable to me, and I put it in the declaration. Professional lawyers will give you any justification, calling you thousands of precedents around the world when interesting party tickets were sold at auction for enough money. I understand, Yuri Vitaliyovich, that a party ticket can't be of any value to you because you go from one party to another. You say here, "Untouchable you are ours" about us all, coming out of this room a year ago. I wanted to remind you, Yuri Vitaliyovich, you've been in this room for 20, 20 years, either working as a minister or as a Henprocuror, or sitting in prison, you haven't done anything. First time. [[Applause]] For the first time, Yuri Vitaliyovich, you promised to cancel the parliamentary immunity in 1998 on. When we were traveling around 152 constituencies in the city of Raven our family mentioned. You've been promising that for 20 years. Why aren't you ashamed? You were sitting in this room, you didn't hit your finger to undo the parliamentary immunity. By the way, Yuri Vitaliyovich, in the 98th election, you were actively parasitic to a sufficiently authoritative man in the Plain Man, on your teacher Tamara Petrovni Schmerie, you forgot something about that. Tamara Petrovna was very sick, literally out of the hospital yesterday. I'm asking you people to call her, please. Now, the main thing is, I also want professional lawyers to listen. From the Bay of Baruch, the DFS has just determined the value of the assets I have declared, and on this basis I am allegedly accused by the Attorney General's Office of not paying taxes. First of all, Yuri Vitaliyovich, there are two of my colleagues in this room who you blamed. The ones you blamed for the same thing. Both by Viacheslav Constantinowski and by Sergey Rybalci, you have recognized that there is nothing to it, that it was your subjects who invented it and closed it. I urge you to find courage and apologize to Vejacheslav Leonidovich, before Sergei Viktorovich, you were wrong about them, have the courage to apologize to them. And now, at a meeting of a professional regulatory committee, you've been setting up a possible tax evasion for me, totally dispossessed of my finger, a list of my declared assets, saying, if I have declared it, it's worth that much, I think. Yuri Vitaliovich, why isn't all my property here? Why isn't there a party ticket? According to your logic, he should also be brought here and accused of not paying taxes on him. Likewise, and in the midst of what you think I didn't pay the tax, there's a painting by Mark Greci, who, being a well-known artist, never sold his paintings, twice in his life gave to his friends: me and my colleague Igor Mosiyczuk. You've got a court expert on the committee who's saying that it's impossible to determine the value. The Moses in the declaration, by the way, didn't. Identify yourself, please, who should be judged for this: me or him. Next. As an honest man, I put everything in the declaration. I took, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliyovich, because you can see in a stranger's eye the sorbet, and you can't see the log in yours, I took, Yuri Vitaliyovich, your declaration. Through the ICTV channel on Insider, you proudly showed your collection of cold firearms. As a man who loves guns, I actually envy you a little bit. At the same time, we're opening your declaration, the section "Roving Property." "The jewelry, the jewelry, the jewelry, the coat with the fur, the bookcase, the Chanel bag, the Dior bag." Where's the gun? You lied in your declaration. On this point, I would like to use this most important rostrum to contact the head of Mr. Artem Sitnik's National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Artem Sergiyovich, I signed a statement directly on the committee about the crime committed by Attorney General Yuri Lucenk, who indicated in his declaration that it was unreliable. And now, dear colleagues, I ask you to look at the bed where the Attorney General sits. You didn't notice anything interesting? There was another person: Special Anticorruption Prosecutor Nazar Kolodnitsky. Nazary Ivanovich left because the National Anticorruption Bureau closed the investigation. There is no suspicion of SAP, no suspicion of NAB, no submission of SAP, Yuri Vitaliyovich. It's yours around the legal self-activity, what you've done this submission. This is a violation of your duties. You were last time. You mention here who was sitting there, and I wanted to remind Yuri Vitaliyovich that you were sitting on duty. I do not wish anyone harm, I, the God of witnesses, today have placed a candle for your health and have forgiven you in a Christian way, and I have asked God to give you wisdom. [[Applause]] You know, you. I left, by the way, in the Feodosian Monastery near the icon of Michael the Miracler, where the gifts of this miraculous icon hang, including the cross with the powers that I gave. Dear colleagues, look, I've seen everything in my life, not yet. The DFS experts, along with the Henprocurator's investigators, estimated the value of power at 121 thousand dollars. At least fear God, I understand that you are a man of Communist upbringing, but have respect for the feelings of believing people. By the way, when I asked you this on the committee, you, Yuri Vitaliyovich, said that you were building a church in the Plains. Our team is helping to build several temples of the Ukrainian Church in the city of Ravenna. I haven't heard from any of them about any help from you. And the fact that you're building a church has become news. Tell me, please, maybe I'll join the construction -- what church are you building, and where exactly are you building in the Plain? Now, that's exactly what's important. He apologized for voting in favour of the incompetent Attorney General Yuri Lucenk, the Attorney General, without a higher level of legal education. I have nothing to apologize for. Our iron team has nothing to apologize for. I took a transcript of this vote. We voted "against," because voting for the Attorney General without a higher level of legal education is the same thing as putting your child on an operating table of a surgeon who didn't go to medical school. [[Applause]] And the consequences and the consequences of all of this are now visible. When the U.S. Attorney General's Office, who as an official is respected as an institution, is disgraced and turned into a circus by your and your legal illiteracy subjects, when political motivation is clearly shown on the face, when we talk about the need to record parliamentary immunity, it must be taken out of everyone. I'm not hiding it, I know I'm gonna break this case in court, but I understand clearly why you're doing it. You avenge the Radical Party for our position, for the fact that our faction unanimously did not vote in favour of the anti-constitutional law, which allows the Attorney-General to elect a person without a higher legal education, did not vote in favour of your appointment. I didn't vote in favour of the draconian changes you have initiated to the Criminal Procedure Code against which the bar has come because they give tyrannical powers to the prosecutor's office as a system and claim rights to protect. We didn't vote for that. Moreover, our leader, Oleg Lazko. And I personally stood on this rostrum on the day of this vote and called on my colleagues: be sure of what you are doing. A lot of you regret that right now. Because Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, who's confused about who's registered with the house where he lives, is 850 meters away. Because you said it was your house. And in your declaration, Yuri Vitaliyovich, it says that his owner is Narembik Stepan Vasilovich 75 years old, 12 years retired, your roommate's father-in-law. Next. Yuri Vitaliyovich, haven't you seen him yet? Even today, I was approached by gin and made arrangements. They want Mr. Oleg to come see you. Those who, behind his back, should come to you as a gift. That won't happen. No one will ever speak blackmail to our iron team. They're not the ones they're after. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u130	To announce the Committee’s conclusion, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenic, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is given. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u131	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! On July 5, this year, the Committee, at its meeting with the Attorney General, with the participation of Deputy Lozov, reviewed the application. It was initiated by the Deputy Chief of the Department of Procedural Management and by supporting the State's charge to the Department of Public Prosecutions by Prosecutor Sevaluk. And he's asking to consider the submission and consent to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy of Lozov. And the report states that by pre-trial investigation it was found that Lozová Andrija Sergiyovitch had deliberately avoided paying taxes, which led to a real lack of budgeting on a large scale. The committee noted, in particular, that the information referred to the intention of the national deputy Lozov to avoid paying taxes. Therefore, the submission does not contain any reference to the confirmation of such a deliberate tax evasion and to the results of the verification of the origin of the property noted by the Ukrainian national deputy Lozov as valuable in his declaration. Nor does the submission contain any references to the explanation of receiving from the national deputy of the Ukraine of Lozov for the way in which property is acquired and its value determined. Why is that? This may be due to the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 21, 2017, the day after the opening of criminal conduct, which opened on June 20, 2017. In addition, a copy of the expert findings was added to the submission of the results of the forensic and economic expertise that was assigned in a different rather than in this criminal conduct. The Committee considers that the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Lozov is legal, motivated, as it is initiated, submitted by the appropriate applicant, but is not sufficiently justified. In particular, it is based on evidence obtained prior to the discovery of criminal conduct, that is, by June 20, 2017. Secondly, the committee has reasonable doubts as to the expiration of periods of time to apply the provisions of Article 212 of Part II of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy of Lozov. Finally, the submission is not based on proper evidence in the evidence of a deliberate tax evasion. Because the National Deputy Lozov's tax debt is not in line with the rules of the Ukrainian Tax Code, but the tax returns on the tax liability of the National Deputy Lozov are in the order of administrative jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u132	Thank you. We now have one block, statements by representatives of MP factions and groups, and then statements by Ukrainian national deputies. First of all, I ask you to record a statement by representatives of the MP factions and groups. Please sign up. Sevrukov Vladislav gives the word "Honcharenko" from "Block of Peter Poshenko." From the rostrum, please. Please, Mr. Vladislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u133	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenk's Block. You know, I can hear all these speeches right now and I have this feeling that something incredible is going on. There's a word like that, and I want to use it, and it's the same thing in Ukrainian, and it's the same thing in Russian, and it's easier to say: In other words, when Mosiyczuk speaks and instructs the Attorney General. The person who was taking bribes in packages all over the country was sounding his prices, and he had an MP's request of $3,000, and he had a request of $5,000. I specifically named her last name, let her do it again. It's a show that the country needs to see. No one's ever seen that before. We've had something that people will remember today, I think, for a long time. It's Lazko, who probably didn't do his job there. And he's telling us today, you see, I'm going to teach you how it's supposed to be. A man who is simply said to have nowhere to put the glue. In Lozov, it's all very simple here. If we have it, we don't now vote for removing the intactness of Lozov, then we have to recognize it as holy. To turn to the Vatican in the congregation for the affairs of the saints, and to Andrey Lozov to pray, to ask for money for life, for many Ukrainian citizens have nothing to live for. So Lozova will tell them how to do it, it's Saint Andrew. You know how the Holy Virgin gives women, Saint Andrew gives to the poor. Because he's a man who's never worked anywhere, hasn't earned anything, we're showing millions of dollars. People, listen, millions! The leader of his faction shows a million dollars in cash. He's showing millions. Where did these millions come from? He says he gave it to his grandfather from Moscow. Moscow's trail? What's going on? So I'm simply asking you, dear fellows, to look at it, and anyone who does not vote for the removal of the inviolability of Lozov is the whole new church, the church of St. Andrew of Loz, to which the grace of God has descended and helped him to live in this world. And I just want to ask Andrey to share this grace, because many Ukrainian citizens need it. I ask everyone to look at every last name that votes and how, because it's extremely principled, it's not just a vote, it's a test that's who's in this Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u134	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, the Ostrikov People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, Self-Help votes in favour of bringing the National Deputy Lozov to criminal responsibility, regardless of Andrew being my countryman and countryman of the Attorney General. And we think that, as I said, we all have to be in equal conditions and we have to give up the MP's immunity. At this, the political part of my speech will be over. Now I want to go into the legal section so that I don't overwhelm the process with mutual accusations, relationships, and so on. I'd like to draw our attention to this: to properly qualify as a deliberate tax evasion, a few things are certain. First of all, it's the intent to not pay taxes and the objective side in the form of avoidance and in the form of consequences precisely for the non-invention of large-scale budget costs. I may not have read the file carefully, but I did not understand the period during which Lozov avoided paying taxes. And I don't deny that he might have avoided it, but I don't understand it, every year we have a different amount of social tax that determines the amount of tax evasion. This is the first position. Second position. Why does the Attorney General keep telling us to pay our taxes and we'll forgive you. Why is there no question, and why is Parliament not informed about the details, and who is the source of this Lozov income? Or did he steal that money? Well, didn't the Martians bring him that kind of income? I mean, there might be a situation where the proceeds of the theft or maybe the arms trade, and we're told that the more serious crime is covered in less serious: the payment of taxes and you're free of criminal liability. I warn the Attorney-General against such actions, please, if you submit and we give you full support from Parliament, we vote in favour of removing the inviolability, but Parliament wants to know how long this crime has been committed, if it has been committed and who is the source of this income. And once again, the Martians didn't pay him that income. I also want to say to my colleagues that that declaration, which is repeatedly mentioned in the data that we've all filled out with you, was not a zero declaration. Those who wrote all the millions and all the valuable things, they had to think heads, it wasn't a zero declaration, it wasn't an amnesty tax, and if you were writing some income there, you had to think about how you would confirm it. And as I said before, it's only the fiscal services that confirm it as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u136	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u137	Because we've only had a personification base since 1998. What if the income was received by 1998? And if these are the differences that aren't reflected in the base of characterization: bought $2 or $5, sold 8 and so on. I mean, these things in the data aren't explained. In spite of that, we give credit to the Attorney General, and we wish Andrew Loz success in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u138	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u139	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Andrew Lozova, I want to tell you, I'm proud of you, I'm proud that you have ticket number two, that you're my deputy, a faction deputy, a deputy leader. You came to me when I was sitting in Pasaga drinking coffee, you came to me. That was what, 6-7 years ago? Seven years ago. Young student, 21 or 22 years old, Institute, Dragoman University, and I said, I want to be on your team, because I believe you, I said, no problem, join you. Andrew took his chance, as he was used by Dmitry Linko, commander of the Holy Virgin Mary Battalion, who liberated Mariupol, as he was used by Tetjana Yuzkov, one of the most famous lawyers in Ukraine, as my lawyer, when I was planted, repeats that I was planted a hundred times. Yes, I was planted and protected by Tetjana Yuzkov, one of the best lawyers. As this opportunity has been used by the best internationalist Victor Wolf, our Victor Halasyuk, who will be the prime minister of President Lyashko, Oleg Kuprienko, the most famous lawyer, Silantiev Denis, who has celebrated Ukraine in international arenas, is now responsible for the restoration of sports infrastructure in our team, so that the children don't go down on the gindelics, but to grow up healthy and many, many more of my brothers, I thank my team. Why, Your Honor Henprocuror, do you see how I am speaking with a pause, Your Honor, it is difficult for me, Yuri Vitaliyovich, to call you honorable, but I follow the form. Your Honor Attorney-General, why are you filing, why is President Prussianko trying to get me to vote for one law a day, then for another, for a third? Guys, you don't understand one simple truth: Easy and his team, we don't give in to blackmail. You can't scare us, you can't scare us with things, you can't buy us, you tried to do it. I have a bar, I've been raised, unlike the Attorney General, who, thank you, has many MPs who are now laughing, there's no rod, and there's nothing that British Prime Minister Winston Churchill called "soft vomit," if you know what it is, because many of you don't. Unlike Henprocuror, who was raised in the family of the first secretary of the entire party, I am five years old in a children's dormitory house, 11 years old in boarding schools, from the first to the eleventh grade. I've seen everything in my life, I can't be scared, I can't be bought, I can only be convinced. What you're doing, you're trying to scare our team, make us vote for the laws we need. You're playing, Yuri Vitaliovich, you're playing. You are the last one who has the moral right to present to Loz any claim and you are the first to be responsible for the crimes that you are incriminating to Lozov today, and the Lord sees it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u140	Thank you, the factions have ended. 30 seconds to the national MP Moseschuk, mentioned during the performances and he demands words, a replica. One minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u141	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u142	I've asked everyone, now I'll give you a minute, but I would very much like not to interrupt the presiding, honourable Mr. Andrey. I'll give you a minute, I'm not deaf, 100 percent, although I don't have a haircut, but I'm not deaf. Did everyone hear that? One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! I'm not going to react to what I'm talking about here, who brought the war to the Ukrainian Odessa, in which he has direct responsibility for the Odessa massacre. But I want to address each and every one of you, and I don't know if I can get out of this. I want to address each and every one of you, you can vote for Andrew Loz's commitment to responsibility, but he'll find that the next thing you know, this bell tower is ringing at you, that in one day for Self-Help they're going to open the case, for Fatherhood and even for BP's, you'll remember my words. This is a call for all of you, on forged cases, there is no tax-related solution. Any entrepreneur in this country can now be dumped and accused of not paying taxes, and he is not here today. And we'll prove it in any court of law, but know this bell is ringing for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u144	Use the right to a replica. We now have the opportunity, according to the Rules, to take up the debate of the Ukrainian people's deputies, and I ask you to sign up. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u145	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Now, once again, I've listened to the whole discussion about this presentation and the previous discussion, and I'd like to go to all of our television audiences and radio audiences and all of the Ukrainians right now and pay attention to the absurdity that's not happening here in the circus. Yes, there is a circus, of course, yes, there is such a language on both sides, not essentially, but, as they say, "stupid." Yes, I wanted to pay attention, actually, to that absurdity in terms of political responsibility. See, all the people or 99 present today were speaking during the election for the removal of parliamentary immunity. They argued that they were against the MP's inviolability and were in favour of changes to the Constitution and during the elections and the electoral process. And long before the election, and after the election, all the time, actually. But in their arguments today -- the same people -- say that something is not written in the application, that the charges are made, that those people have gone through the wrong evidence and so on. What's so absurd about this? The absurd thing is that if these people are really genuinely against parliamentary immunity, they're not interested in the quality of submission, they're not interested in the quality of submission, they're not interested, in general, in what's written there, in general, is not interested in the essence of the accusation, it's not going to be, so today's circus is not in nature. We don't have to discuss this at all. Of course, with one big "but," if that's what these people are really saying, well, that's the majority of the people's deputies. Because when we see things like this, when society sees that in a single speech from the rostrum. One statement states that we are against inviolability, and then – in the same speech they say, but the submission is bad, the evidence is wrong and so on and so forth. Well, if you'll excuse me, it means that the first part of the speech is a lie. The first part of the speech is just open ossaming, it's a game for the public, it's looking for the voices of the disadvantaged Ukrainians who believe that lie first. Now, stop it, please! If you're really national MPs, if you're really against being a separate caste, if you don't want to be a separate caste, let's take this off and let's not talk about any bad evidence. I emphasize once again to everyone who has just spoken here: come, sign! You said you were such a taker! Sign for changes in the Constitution, because so far, only six new people have come along, except for the 90s that were before.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u146	Thank you. Please, Yuri Timoshenko will be speaking from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u147	This morning, in the first thing I did, I put my signature under that law, Mr. Yuri, to you personally. And this is my conviction: I am for lifting the MP's immunity, of all of us, of all the judges, of all the prosecutors, including the President. But I am definitely against this selectivity that I see today. If you shoot it, all of it! Why does someone, some dark forces that have taken control of the NAB, turn this NABA into a scarecrow to intimidate each of us, then turn each of us into a "hearing dog" that will do their will? I've lived too honest a life, I've done too much in this life to be clean in front of my conscience, not to be afraid of anyone, and you, NABA, I'm not afraid either! You're not even controlled by any audience yet. I'll deal with you personally someday! There, in the left-hand corner, you see sharks, you see business sharks, and you don't touch them, and somehow you're stuck for these sandbirds. Shame on you! You started today with a frontist, a medaleer, a medallioner of the Order for Courage, who went through all of Midan and the whole war, and now you're taking over as a man. Something, really. The regional "subtle" here is doing some comedy, and we have to listen to it! To vote and put my hands behind the bars of a man who did so much for Maidan, for war, for our frontalists, who rides with me in court, pulls the boys out of prison. What are you? Today, my team of assistants has brought up on my behalf in 36th, the Zabrowski Arthur, the Idara fighter and the Right Sector, and I am proud of that. And on the same day, when I pulled out 36th, would I plant the first one? Never in the world. I would have been a traitor if I had planted Andrew Lozov with my own hands. And which of you is not a traitor, don't do that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u148	Kirichenko Alexei Mikolaiovich. He's handing it over to Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u149	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear friends, 212th Criminal Code doesn't have a special subject, everyone walks under it. When we went to the elections and promised to remove the parliamentary immunity in this room they voted in favour of the Act amending the Constitution in the first reading, look at the protocols, all our votes in favour. But we voted for the removal of parliamentary immunity, not for the selective criminal persecution of opposition deputies. Tomorrow everyone. I do not say, of us, as Yuri Vitaliyovich said with great respect to the Supreme Council: you are untouchable to us. I go to the people, to the Ukrainians, to the entrepreneurs, to all those who make their own homes, their own homes, their cars, tomorrow they will come for you. I'm talking to the lawyers, the time has not come, the tax-based decision-making has not been given, which willful avoidance can be referred to? You'll all be there tomorrow. We're for removing the inviolability, but all of us, so that everyone is equal before the law. And they want to leave it all behind. Why? So that you can squander one of the unfavorable factions and put Parliament on its knees. I'm not saying, the Radical Party faction, we're not set up or set up, but they're trying to do it. Where is the guarantee that he will be with you today or with you or with you? So here's an example, here's a result and a precedent for how to act to the local prosecutors who are sitting, wiping their hands, and saying, "Now the mask is going to go, so you can." No, Your Honor, you can't do that. There has to be a law. And when we were all standing on the ground, we were voting and trying to come to power, and some came to build an honest country, with fair courts, with honest, professional prosecutors, without selective justice. We talked about it, we stood up for it. What have they built? What we have. Let's mention the words of the famous classic of the films of Sagittarius. Remember? In the original language, "The order in the country is determined not by the number of thieves, but by the ability of the authorities to defuse them." We have no authority to fight thieves. We know where they are; we know why they should be planted. The government doesn't know? He knows. Does he want to or doesn't he? He probably doesn't want to go there, and he can't. Therefore, if you were to learn as you should, wisdom would be your own. Yes, sorry, as Kravczuk said, we have what we have. I won't vote against it, because if I vote for it, it's my human dignity, which I'm not going to overstep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u150	Colleagues, the speaking time is over. Let's move on to the finals. And the first for the closing statement is invited by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u151	First of all, I will not apologize for opening or closing criminal cases, for every person in our country is equal before the law. Deputy Constantinowski immediately provided an explanation of the likely tax evasion, explained the sources – and the case was closed. The same thing about Fishing: He really showed the documents. And unfortunately, more faithfully, fortunately, the amount of unpaid taxes is less than necessary for criminal liability. That's why I treat everyone objectively, but here we've heard a lot about power, about my test, about anything, but we haven't heard from a man with an official salary for his entire life, 230,000 dollars took hundreds of thousands of dollars and euros. That's not all we heard. In this regard, honourable national deputies, I accept your concern, for as long as this year, while I am a Henprocuror, a thousand 200 criminal corruption cases have been brought to trial, you have been calm. When I came here, you immediately shouted, "These aren't the laws, we don't want to vote for them, and Lucenko isn't like you." Yes, this Henprocuror won't dance under your hip! I'll file these files if there's a crime scene. [[Applause]] And now I'm saying that your national MP has not paid to the state a million 700,000 dollars, so much needed by the poor people for whom you're so afraid, and on the front that you need to help. Yes! They have to be paid for, like, a thousand 700. Either pay up, or dry up, there'll be no other way. Next. Dear Mr. Andrey, the intactness, because you say intactness is something else, so ask your leader with your haircut. I want to take off the inviolability. Everything else is not mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u152	Thank you. Please invite the national deputy of Ukraine, Andriy Sergiyyovich, to conclude. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u153	Note, yes, in spite of the respectful head’s observation, Yuri Vitaliyovich still turns to personal images, personal images. Why so? Because he understands that he is wrong. Today, note that in his first speech, the brilliant prosecutor, the prominent lawyer of modern times, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko himself, said that filing against me was groundless. He admitted it. Next. I repeat, I forgive you, Yuri Vitaliyovich, but I still insist that you apologize to colleagues of Vejacheslav Constantinowski and Sergey Rybalka. When you say, "I won't apologize," I want to remind you that in 2005, you and the foam in your mouth proved from this rostrum, which criminal Boris Kolesnikov, then let him go and apologized. Be equal to everyone. You apologize when you need to. Thank you. And taking this opportunity, from this high rostrum, I wanted to say those words that are one of the most basic words in my life, those words were written by a simple Lviv student named Nicholas Koles over 100 years ago, when he was being repressed: "For the will of the people, for her rights are not terrible chains, sweet prisons, because free spirit is not bound." I'm not afraid of your submission, I'm afraid of your third. I'm not afraid of prison. I know it's true on our side. I know what's on our side. I know that I am honest before the Lord and before the law as opposed to you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u154	Colleagues, we're about to make our final speech, after which we're going to vote. Therefore, I ask both the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the heads of factions to invite you to the Hall and prepare for the vote. For the final word, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is invited on the subject of the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Please. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, a review of the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of the national MP Lozov has clearly revealed all the problems related to the proper way of proving the existence of signs of criminal offence, which is provided for in the 212 Criminal Code of Ukraine. All of us remember well what kind of stress was in society in connection with the publication of electronic declaration data. Who and what he wrote there. It's on the one side. On the other hand, in order to determine the tax base of a national MP, or any other person, by simply multiplying the number of values indicated in the declaration by 121 thousand, you have to want very much. And in this case, of course, that's exactly what the lawkeepers wanted. [[Applause]] So once again, I ask you to note that 212 articles need no proof whatsoever, including the national MPs of Ukraine, however unpleasant this may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u156	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take up your jobs. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. And in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Lozov Andrija Sergiyovich. People's deputies, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[19:01:25]] For 177 The appearance of the Attorney General did not garner the necessary number of votes. The decision is not taken. We turn to the next question of consenting to criminal responsibility, arresting and arresting Ukrainian national deputy Polakov Maxim Anatoliyovich. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" of the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility, detention or arrest of a national deputy. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, of consent to be held criminally liable, detained and arrested by the Ukrainian national deputy, Maksim Anatoliyovich. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, has been conducting a criminal procedure since 28.11.2016 on the basis of the criminal offences envisaged in part two of article 240, part four, part two, article 369, part two, part three, article 28 and part three of article 369-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. According to a case-by-case investigation by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Polyakov Maksim Anatoliyevich committed a criminal offence in the field of service between 02.10.16 and 28.11.16. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 6 July, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, considered the submission of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest of the Ukrainian national deputy, Polyakov Maxim Anatoliyovich. The findings of the committee and the reported submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine were sent to you all by e - mail and distributed on the registration tables in paper copies. And now the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenk, for answers to questions from representatives of the MPs and groups, Ukrainian national deputies. And I'm asking you to record a question to the Attorney General. Please hold the recording. While the recording is being done, colleagues, I have found the article on replica in detail and will now read it to all of you. "If a national MP speaks abusively at the address of another national MP or MP, a national MP or a representative of a parliamentary faction where offensive words have been spoken, he may contact the chairman of a plenary meeting requiring a word to be given to the replication. The chairman of the plenary shall give the floor to the MP or the representative of the MP." Thus, it is only in the case of a national MP and only in the case of abusive speech. So that we don’t have any further misunderstandings. And once again, I urge everyone to have a proper responsible discussion, because we have responsible questions in the agenda. And I invite you to question the head of the "People's Front" faction of Burbak Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u157	Yuri Vitaliyovich, I would like to say, once again, to confirm that the People's Front faction has consistently voted and will vote in favour of removing the immunity of all deputies as an institution, and believes that it is only to be left untouchable for the political activities of each MP. But it's about filing for our member of the Maxime Polakov faction. There was a shameful situation that our national deputies also faced when there was, I think, a devastating attack on Maxime Polakov’s wife. I want to remind him that he has a baby, eight months old, she's breast-fed yet, and then she's gone. But please tell me if you think this can be qualified as a violation of authority, or a robbery, when several law enforcement officials in high - ranking authorities surround their wife, a young woman in a dark way, pick up the phone, and then two days later form it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u158	Please, 30 seconds, finish, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u159	And only, according to our deputy, who was announced at the meeting of the regulatory committee, that only two days later, there was a court order allowing them to be disfellowshipped. What was that, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u160	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, frankly, after two misrepresentations of illegal enrichment and tax evasion, it is no longer possible to verify it either on this side or on this side. [[Applause]] The MP’s self - defense effectively prevented law enforcement officials from making appropriate submissions. This is a first and a disgraceful phenomenon. The other one. On this matter that we are currently considering, this is the case of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And I believe that it was for such matters that he was created, and I am proud to have been one of the authors of this law and voted for him. I'm not proud of those who don't pay taxes or commit other 9 criminal offences, but I'm proud that we have such an NAB. It's for this case that we put in place an organized group to track down the commission of serious crimes, and we created this agency. The other one. Regarding the likely actions that you qualify as illegal against the wife of a national deputy during a court-sanctioned search at a specific location in court, criminal conduct has already been violated and the Special Unit of the Chief Investigative Directorate of the National Police has been determined whether or not the authority of the NABU staff has been exceeded. This is our competence and the answer to that will be found. In case the detectives have exceeded their authority and inflicted any bodily harm on the honourable wife of the national MP, they will be punished. To do that, I would ask, Mr. Maxime, if your national deputy would give you a video of the operational footage that he took from the NABA workers, you'll see that everything will immediately be in place, and I'd ask that tomorrow in the U.S.A., this video will be posted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u162	Thank you. Next question from the Radical Party, Lensky Alexiyyyovich gives the word Igor Mosiyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u163	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! I have two such specific questions and I ask you to give the same specific legal answer. Say it. please, which body was listening to Mr. Polakov's assistant, specifically, which law enforcement body was listening to Mr. Polakov's assistant is the first question. And the second question. Please tell the court when granting permission for this hearing, to whom he granted permission, and to which criminal conduct the permit was granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u164	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u165	Thank you. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of 28.11.2016 has been guided by the signs of criminal offences provided for in article 240 of Illegal Nadr Extraction, article 369-2 and article 28, which shows the commission of a group crime. Then, on this 420 case, at the end of the last issue of 3712, the court granted permission for the SAP’s concern to the NAB detectives to remove information that NABU detectives did, according to the court’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u166	Thank you. Questions completed. And now we're moving. Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Now it is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polakov Maksim Anatoliyovich. Maxim Anatolyevich, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u167	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, all those watching the plenary! I want to tell everyone what the story started with, and why am I standing behind this rostrum? It actually started in 2015. In July 2015, I ask you to remember this date, and that was when Mr. Sitnik was sent an application for his travel abroad with his wife for state funds and a criminal case was opened by Mr. Sevruk, the Attorney General’s Deputy Attorney General for the event. That was the beginning of the relationship, and, as Mr. Sitnik said, when he was filing papers about me with the Attorney General's Office, that's when this relationship started. I was one of the first to criticize the public activity of NABU and I received what I received from Mr. Sitnik’s personal revenge and work. But let's move on to the essence of the charge. What have I been accused of, and what have we seen on the committee? On the committee, we've all heard a lot about the whole of Ukraine called the Burst Mafia. Please tell me where I am, where's the amber? In no way have I ever lived in amber or lived in this region, nor have I exported, nor have I, nor my family, and this is well known to everyone, nor to the Attorney General. But what happened? There was an attempt at provocation. What was this provocation, and who led the provocation? It was just that I was met by a representative of some sort of Dubai company, and she offered me money for it. What there is a stenogram in the NABA that, unfortunately, wasn't put on the committee, but they put a transcript in court, where I'm clearly referring to corruption in Dubai, we don't need that. This is the text of the transcript in the NABA recording of my conversation. Could this be the end of it? I guess it was possible, because clearly, I refused, I had no desire, and I decided not to talk to my assistant about it. Thank you, Mr. Mosiyczuk, who asked the question just what about when the criminal case began? 28.11. But since November of the month, there have been no meetings with me or anyone with these people for seven months. I mean, the criminal case was already after that, but that's not the point. So let's talk about the very essence of the charge, me. Please tell me, did I ask for money from anyone? No, it's not. And this was confirmed by the Attorney General, for which I am personally grateful, and there was no demand on my part, and I did not ask for any funds. Next, were there any illegal acts on my part? No, they weren't, there was no action that was illegal, but what was going on? There have been illegal acts of the NAB to me. The first is that my wife was attacked, attacked cynically, and seven men in the driveway. I don't want God to give a loving woman, a nursing mother in her place. We have an eight - month - old child who lost her milk after that day. God forbid it's anyone's. Next thing you know, what happened from Petty Officer? I also want to thank the Attorney-General for this situation because a criminal case under article 370 has been opened, and what is this article? It's a provocation. Persecution — What Does It Mean? That there must be a suspicion for Petty Officer and the gang who worked at the NABU. Let's move on, everyone says for a very good organ, and I voted for it -- NABA. Who were these detectives? The NABU detectives are former employees of the UBZ, deputy district chief of the Odessa District of Odessa, who was involved in the crackdown on arms trafficking, if you go on the Internet, it's hundreds of links. Who was the performer? Who's known for being such a super agent, and a super agent is a person who also worked for the police, a man who was being bribed with drugs, and that's the new NAB organ you created. These are mints that were thrown out of the police that didn't pass through there by a miracle of a polygraph in the NABU. That's what we got. I'm asking everyone to understand that we've given some organs the inviolability of society, that everyone thinks they're doing and doing honest work, but unfortunately they're working outside the law. I have a request for this hall, I have never hidden from anything, but I ask you to vote by conscience and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u168	Thank you. The first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, is invited to announce the conclusion of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u169	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! First of all, I'm announcing the existence of a conflict of interest in connection with Maxim Polakov's stay in one faction, after the formal requirement of the Anti-Corruption Act has been made to the report. On July 6, this year, the Committee, with the participation of Attorney General Lucenk and the People's Chamber of Parliament, reviewed the submission of an agreement to bring the criminal responsibility of the People's Deputies of Polyakov. Also, the submission of consent to the detention of the Polish national deputy and the granting of election approval for the Polish national deputy Maxima Anatoliyovich in the form of a precautionary measure of detention, which was supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Attorney General of Ukraine on 21 June 2017. The submission of these motions by the Deputy Attorney General, the head of the SAP by the Cold Nazar Ivanovich, asks that he consider these submissions and consent to be held criminally liable, detained by the National MP and elected as a precautionary measure in the form of a life sentence. The report states that the trial found that Polyakov Maxim committed a criminal offence in the field of service between 02.10.2016 and 28.11.2016. Instead, we found that criminal conduct opened on 28.11.2016 on the basis of the signs of criminal offences envisaged in part two of article 240 is "The violation of the rules of protection or use of nuclei"; part four of article 368, "The acceptance of an offer, a promise or an improper benefit by a service person"; part two and third of article 369 with the symbol "The abuse of influence"; part three of article 28 "The commission of a crime by a group of persons." a group of individuals on a previous conspiracy, organized by a group or criminal organization" of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The committee concluded that the date of the opening of criminal conduct was 28 November 2016. At the same time, some evidence of the fact that Poles committed socially dangerous acts was obtained prior to the discovery of such criminal conduct. At the same time, the data does not indicate on what grounds operational and other procedural measures have been carried out and whether judicial decisions have been taken by the investigator on this matter. The Committee considers that the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of the Polish national deputy is legal to the extent that it is initiated and submitted by the appropriate subject, but insufficiently substantiated from the point of view of the evidence base. In addition, the Committee made well-founded warnings about the possible abuse of power, official powers in the area of the conduct of the search and investigation, and appealed to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the conduct of the activities of the employees of the NABU, which contained signs of the crime envisaged in article 370 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine's "Provocation of Bribery" for the introduction of relevant information to the HKDR and for the conduct of an investigative investigation. At the next meeting of the Committee, the Attorney-General of Ukraine informed the committee that the Committee had been asked about the possible abuse of power and official authority in the area of operational and investigation and the provocation of bribery to the Single State Registry of Investigations had provided relevant information on the discovery of criminal conduct. The committee concluded that the submission of consent to the detention of the Ukrainian national deputy Polakow was legal, since the submission was initiated and made by the appropriate subject, but not sufficiently substantiated and motivated, and there were no grounds and grounds to support the detention of the Polish national deputy. With regard to the granting of an election for a member of the Security Service in custody, the arrest is lawful, since it is initiated and submitted by an appropriate subject, but also insufficiently justified and unmotivated, and there are no grounds and grounds to support the need for the National Deputy of Ukraine to take a precautionary action in the form of a security measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u170	Thank you. Now we have statements from factions and groups. So if you would like to speak from factions and groups, please record. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Barna Oleg Stepanovich is invited to the floor. Mr. Oleg, where or from the rostrum? How would you feel, Mr. Oleg? To the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u171	Praise Jesus Christ! Obviously, it's a really unpleasant situation, as they say, because of the amount and the plague, don't complain. But by the way, you don't have to turn rich things into political farces, when some of you, if you're in captivity, block the railways, as a result, the factories are standing, a bunch of unemployed people, and now you're buying anthracite in Russia. Then they start blocking the trash. And then they start blocking along with others on a matter that is agreed upon, voted on and considered, but by the way, they didn't vote in favour of the bills that are needed and needed by Ukraine, that's a political farce. If they turn to God, I beg you to ask God for his conscience and dignity so as not to desecrate Ukrainian soil with lion's garbage and his political garbage. Others turn and say: lawlessness. So I want to talk to you. Honourable, lawless, when one is planted for truth, not for falsehood and slander. Lawlessness when a person is put in prison for his political position rather than for the theft of state property on a particularly large scale. And when you want to cover up your deputies right now, you're doing a wolf service, because we have to, we can't all be a judge, we can't evaluate the facts, we have to do it in court. We have to give them the opportunity to go to court and, like other Ukrainian citizens, to show that we are with the people and to make amends, or the prosecution will lead them. So, Your Honor, I want you. be, you know, with the people. When millions of dollars have been shown in their declarations, millions of dollars, and we cannot explain them, let us be equal to the people and pay taxes. And then it turns out, you know, they turned the party and the parliamentary business into business, but you don't want to pay taxes. Therefore, Your Honor, may God help you, with an open conscience, to prove yourself clean before the prosecutor, before the people, and, above all, before yourself. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u172	Thank you. From the Radical Party Wolf Victor Ivanovich. He's handing Oleg Valeriovich the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u173	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, during your consideration of the past submission, when you had your closing statement, you went on to personal insults. I'm not going down to your level. I understand your strategy and your goal is to flatter, to make fun of, to subdue, to show you how cool you are. I don't think I have a worse sense of humor than you do, but we're here right now not to find out who has a sense of humor, but to look at the application prepared by SAP and NAB on the Rosenblatt-Polack case. I want to say immediately that our faction will vote for this submission. We've been looking at the materials, and we think they're reasonable and quite sufficient to make a decision about depriving you of parliamentary integrity. At the same time, I would like to point out that the work of law enforcement agencies is extremely important for our team. We welcome the activities of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, we welcome the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, provided it is not politically involved. Because no human will find the truth when the prosecutor is guided by political purpose when the prosecutor builds his political career — political career. Because when you, Mr. Attorney General, come out here with foam in your mouth and tell me that Lozova has to pay her taxes, I have the same offer to you. Give an example to the whole country and pay taxes, especially for your house in nine hundred square meters, which is counted on your 75-year-old test. You put this house into operation in 2011. Your father-in-law has been retired for 12 years. Rate your house and pay taxes on it, and so on from all your other collections. Give an example for the country. You would have the moral right to urge someone to do something if you were honest yourself. The whole country knows what you're doing. And most of all. My friend Timoshenko, George, was very fond of me. He said, of course, about the writers' deputies, but I liked it, that's a great expression. Because you catch fishermen, you don't catch sharks, you don't catch those who steal energy, you don't catch those who rob through tariffs, you don't catch your three friends, you don't catch three friends of the President. You can't see them, you're not catching them, you're helping them rob the country. And every person in his pocket feels that way. Therefore, there is no politically uninvolved prosecutor’s office. This means that the Ukrainians will not find the truth there. So, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich, I have a great request for you. Stop showing political prejudice. Stop abusing the prosecutor’s authority. Stop scaring us, they're not. By the way, do what you've been asked to do in an illegal way, not to protect power and powder, but to protect the Ukrainians, not to simulate the fight against corruption that you really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u174	And a closing word from the factions and groups, from the Self-Help faction of Barezuk Oleg. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u175	Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I don't trust the Attorney General, I don't trust his political unengagement, I don't trust his objectivity with experience, from what I've seen over the last two and a half years. I don't trust the Ukrainian President's institution, because I see her despoticism and the desire for political preferences and vulgar profit on people. And that's terrible. But wolves are afraid of walking in the woods. Today, the Public Prosecutor’s Office does not stand with law enforcement agencies on the side of the people. Just take the case in the village of Bereznka in Kirovograd district, where the prosecution and the Ministry of Internal Affairs stood, on whose side? Aunts who burned people's grains? And then trust them? But these people in Brezhinz and in other cities and villages are looking at you. If we fear them and hide, they will not follow us. And our strength is in people and their trust. And so, dear fellows, if you can hear us standing together in honor of the courts, which I understand serve as a despot, we have to set an example today for the people and women of Berežanka who came out and stood up against them and won and refused to burn their grain! Let's show them that we're not afraid of them. I still trust SAP and NABU. Guys, I trust you! But this trust is a road. And that's why I'm addressing the Ukrainian Parliament, which the people are looking at! Let us not fear those who serve as despots to defend our interests but to go after you and against them. Otherwise they'll destroy us all. This whole vachanalia that lasted for a week was the killing of Parliament! Today it continues. Because today we were supposed to say, yes, we're not afraid of you and we're going to fight you! I ask you to vote for all their submissions. And if they don't, destroy them! But there is no way to hide behind this disgraceful, completely feudal inviolability.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u176	Let's go to the next section of the agenda. These are performances by the National Deputies, 9 minutes. And I'm asking you to record a performance by the National MPs. Please. Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovich, out of place. Please turn on Mattowski's microphone. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u177	Dear National Deputies! Each of us, to the extreme extent most of us, when we went to the elections, promised our electorate the only thing that had not been done in this Supreme Council for a long time. It's a removal of the MP's immunity. What do we see today? And today we have the next one. For various reasons, the truth is that it is not going to be taken off. And please, honourable voters, watch carefully who is doing this. Because today, those deputies who do not want to go to court forget about the boys who are there on the front page giving their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u178	Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u179	I give Chumak the word of Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u180	Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u181	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev Dear citizens of Ukraine, you see what is happening in Parliament today. Frankly, we're present at the body's dissection. A political group called the Ukrainian political system. Nobody trusts her for a long time. No one trusts Parliament. Today, 2 percent of citizens trust Parliament. I'm very respectful of our speaker, but this mistrust is your 90 percent credit. Because people see that every day, every minute, every vote takes place abusing the Rules. The Parliament of the European State cannot vote in the way ours vote. He can't make laws like pies. He cannot vote in favour of withdrawing the parliamentary immunity when everyone has promised to do so. The level of trust in law enforcement agencies is the same as in Parliament. I have a very respectful appeal to the Attorney General. Yuri Vitaliovich, this is all yours. It's all yours. You told us two weeks ago that all the reforms in the prosecutor's office have been completed. We don't have to reform anything in the DA's office anymore, it's perfect. It's your credit because I absolutely agree that you're in an illegal position. And the question is not that you and your wife didn't vote. The question is that the law you became Attorney General was adopted in the morning, signed in two hours, published in three hours, and you were appointed in four hours. And this is a gross violation of the Rules, which makes everything legitimate, all of your activity, unfortunately. If any of them are brought before the administrative court that you're holding your office illegally, all your submissions will be circulated around other submissions. Think about it. I was saddened to be told, but the level of mistrust was also high. Or say so, not to the Supreme, but to the President. I was in Panama last year at an anti-corruption conference. Do you know where it started? It began with seven portraits of presidents that were not investigated for corruption against Panamanian papers and offshoring scandals. And there was a portrait of Peter Dustenka. It's a disgrace! But we failed, and you, Yuri Vitaliyovich, were not able to say at the time that such an investigation should be conducted in our parliament. Not to do something bad to someone, but to clean up our own parliament. You didn't make it. And you and I haven't been able to do that. And we reap the fruits of our activities. All of this is because of the enormous impunity and enormous irresponsibility of politicians for 20 years. For 20 years, Ukrainian politicians have removed parliamentary intactities and failed to do so. For 20 years, Ukrainian politicians have promised one thing, and when they come to Parliament, they do another. Where is the new Electoral Law promised by the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u182	30 seconds. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u183	Mr. Head, you said there was no political will in factions to accept. I wrote a letter to everyone. I ask the faction leaders to publicly state who is against the new electoral legislation, who are against political reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u184	Thank you. I'm going to set an example of not responding to baseless accusations, and I'm not going to give any public responses to that statement. And the next performance by Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u185	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear Ukrainians, you are now witnessing a great show, you see a fair of pharisaicism. You see when faction leaders speak and say they will support, and as a result, half of their factions do not vote. We see the contractors, we see the plot, we see that these oligarchic corrupt elites, who have been disposing the country for 25 years, came to power on the looted, looted people. And today we are considering a case involving amber. It's worse than Africa. Minister Habakkuk promised two years ago that the matter would be resolved. We've heard statements from the President, we've heard statements from all the political elites, but we see how much this mafia criminal business, with the participation of deputies, continues to flourish. Literally yesterday, the Secretary-General of NATO spoke very clearly about corruption as one of the obstacles to our NATO membership, before we had the Secretary-General of the United Nations, before we had Secretary-General Tillerson. At all international meetings, we only hear one thing: an effective fight against corruption is that it will allow Ukraine to receive more financial assistance, not IMF, not this technical assistance, but real investment in our country. Ilon Musk talks about Zenith rockets as one of the best rockets in the world. We're instead of talking about innovations to get the country out of "the raw curse," what are we discussing today in the south? We can't take it off in the south. Parliament is covering corruption. On the eve of the summit of Ukraine, the EU, which will take place next week, I honestly cannot understand how to tell our partners what we have. It's just that we're talking about removing the MP's, in order to bring responsibility, we're not even talking about arrest today, and we're not even talking about political will. Many here quote and mention, refer to the Lord God. Come on, you know what? To think about our conscience, not to think about how we love God, because in fact people who respect themselves will vote. And those MPs who are on the list today, if they don't really have any such evidence, they will go to court and seek their justice there. I think it's time to build a normal country. And the fact that everyone was standing on Maidan is not indulgence, it's not your immunity from the fact that the Attorney General's Office or the NABU should not investigate the facts. Majdan is not indulgence! And you have to remember, enough to cover for Maidan, enough to cover for you. Because there are actually those soldiers who are fighting on the front today, they're not sitting here with you and the soldiers on the front want to hear that six deputies, at least the facts will be investigated. Only one said from the rostrum, "Please vote." What about everyone else? We're hearing an indictment show, I'm not interested in accusing one MP of Henprosecutor, I'm curious about the fact. Go and do the work, and it's time to build a country, not keep robbing. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u186	And the closing statement, two minutes left, I'm giving Babak to Helenie Valeriavne, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u187	Friends, we've heard many times today about the selectivity of approaches, about the fakes, about how law enforcement officials came to women with children, about scary things. But we haven't once said that under these laws, there are 40 million Ukrainians under these rules. We're special, we're selective today, and 40 million people live by the laws we're writing with you. None of us said today that we have to roll up sleeves with you today and maybe sit down and look at the law, tax legislation, criminal codes to protect people from fake cases, from having the mask show set up in businesses and houses, so that without trial and investigation, law enforcement today, and people will be held accountable. Isn't that what's happening to every Ukrainian today? Are you the only ones untouchable, special and selective? Everybody does, every business. Every day we hear about raiding, every day we hear about people suffering from the laws we write with you. We must today, not protect each other, but write laws that would act for every Ukrainian, protecting him, protecting his freedom, his right to life in that state. Friends, you and I can forgive each other at all, as we pray to God for forgiveness. I would forgive everyone and not judge if I had no responsibility to other people for the laws that are written here. Let's write laws, changing them, so there's no trial or investigation, no false cases, filing prosecutors and everyone else, that's our job, I think we should work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u188	So, colleagues, the discussion is over and we're moving on to the final talks. And I invite you to the closing statement of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka of Ukraine. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u189	Dear National Deputies! These two applications. More loyally, six petitions for two national deputies to be considered today are the result of an unprecedented case conducted by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. As Attorney General, I want to protect from this rostrum the name of the head of the unit that started this case, Boris Indichenko. My office as Minister of Internal Affairs was headed by special operations. And he didn't have to brand his name, he did brilliant operations, just like he did now against the MPs, he was running against the drug industry, against the smuggling, against human trafficking, after all, after other serious crimes. He was expelled by the Party of the Regions for the second week after the Ministry of Internal Affairs seized him. Similarly, I want to protect the name of the Prosecutor’s Office in the Cherkas region. In the village of Berezhinka, the prosecutor’s office protected the farmer’s interests, for which he literally came and thanked me personally the other day. Please, dear friends, call it white - white, black - black. Because you can go halfway around the world and even the Lions, but you can't get the trash out. So, honourable national MPs, this case, please, protocol. I'm asking you to support all three motions, for the knowledge of parliamentary immunity, for the prosecution, even for the arrest. Honourable national MPs, the guilt of the Ukrainian deputy Polakov is proven by the protocols resulting from the conduct of the search and search, audio and video controls, which clearly indicate that the Ukrainian national deputy Polakov knew about the amount of bribes, the time it was granted and the way it was divided between him, the Polish national deputy and the other Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblatt. The result of the Rules of Procedure Committee in general surprises me on the same matter, on the same record, on the same record, on the same evidence, on the one hand, there is no evidence, and on the other, there is insufficient evidence, and on the other hand, they are sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, this once again indicates that, unfortunately, there is now fractional solidarity in this room. You can't do that, every single one of you respected friends passed on. has not only rights that protect the law but also obligations. You swore allegiance to the people of Ukraine to protect them, the people! - not your interests. So my word is very short, the NABA Special Forces in the corridor is tired, vote for all three applications: attraction, detention and arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u190	To the conclusion, the national deputy of Ukraine, Polakov, Maksim Anatoliyovich, is invited. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u191	I want to answer the charges that have come up, Mr. Attorney General himself has made it clear that there is no evidence for me personally. And today, when I go into this room, I realize that this is a specific order, that there is no Polish or Rosenblatt case, it doesn't exist in nature. There's no transfer of any funds to anyone, and you know it. And you've confirmed in this room, and this is clearly your position proving that when I'm being tried in another boat, I'm not in this boat. Unfortunately, I understand that Mr. Attorney General is not interested in listening, he is dealing with his political issues. I ask you all to vote by law, not by street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u192	Dear colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement after which we'll move on to making a decision. That is why I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall and prepare for the decision. In conclusion, I invite the first Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u193	Colleagues, "Caraul, get up!"',' this quote I will remind you, belongs to the Ironborn sailor and, practically, has just been repeated by the Attorney General. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I think you've had a chance to convince even skeptical members of the regulatory committee who have such a disadvantage that they read it, unlike most. If you'd let me know today. I understand you've reported a suspicion to the NABU personnel regarding 370 "Provocation of Bribery" and a violation. The 364th and 364ths are due to violations of CPC requirements during the search and search activities. At least that would be fair, even though it would completely destroy the evidence base of a so-called "beautiful and wonderful special operation." But you didn't do it honestly. Accordingly, the Committee’s conclusion reflects a fully factual state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u194	Thank you. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I want to say that in the entire civilized world, in the United States, European parliaments, right-holders can enter parliament with only one goal: to report on their activities. And so it is in the Ukrainian Parliament. So, colleagues, I put to the vote, in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", I put to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Maksim Anatoliyovich. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[19:49:40]] For the 250. Decision taken. I put to the vote the following: in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part seven of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I put to the vote the question of consenting to the detention of the Ukrainian national deputy, Polyakov Maksim Anatoliyovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[19:50:21]] For-125 The second position is not accepted. Thus, I inform the Attorney General of Ukraine, according to part of article 221 of the Rules, that the submission of consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Polakov Maksim Anatoliyovich was supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the final submission, about giving consent to attraction. [[Noise Nodes]] Third? They told me. Attention! I was told by the lawyers that if we didn't get a second vote, we don't put a third. Should I put it on? Right? The lawyers explained that if the second does not pass, the third does not vote. The chairman of the regulatory committee, please. Colleagues, I have to bet, colleagues, I'm sorry. I'll put in my third pass, I'm sorry. Our camera gave me one. an explanation. And I'm taking the third position. [[Noise Nodes]] In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part seven of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", there is a constant vote on the issue of consent to be elected as regards the Ukrainian national deputy, Polyakov Maxima Anatoliyovich, a precautionary measure in the form of custody, arrest. People's deputies, please vote. [[19:52:19.]] For 111 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u195	Call in the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u196	We move on to the next submission of consent to criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian National Deputy Status Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility, detention or arrest of a national MP. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was visited by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, for consenting to be held criminally accountable, detained and arrested by the Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has been conducting a procedural guide in criminal proceedings since 28.11.2016 on the signs of criminal offences envisaged in part two of article 240, part four of article 368, part two of article 369, part three of article 28, and part three of article 28, and part three of article 369/2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. According to a preliminary investigation by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich committed a number of criminal offences in the field of service between 02.10.2016 and 19.06.2017. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 7 July, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, considered the submission of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of the Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. The findings of the committee and the Office of the Attorney General have been sent to you by e-mail, as well as distributed to all members of the national parliament on the registration tables in paper copies. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenk, for answers to questions. Please record representatives of the MPs and groups for questioning to the Attorney General. Please. Zero entries per question. I'm asking Yuri Vitaliyovich three minutes for a general position to be said. So let's just assume that this is my question to Yuri Vitaliovich to briefly describe the case. Please, Mr. Yuri, Mr. Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I think you've all seen or been interested in video materials that we've legally demonstrated on the regulatory committee. Regrettably, they are absolutely clear that Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich, by his deliberate actions, has done wrong to himself and third parties for having an impact on the acceptance of his State’s functions, following a previous conspiracy with a group of individuals. That is, he committed a corrupt crime, as foretold in part two of article 28, part two, of article 369-2 of the Criminal Code. The fact that Rosenblatt commits the socially dangerous acts defined in part four of article 368 in part two of article 369-2 is objectively and convincingly supported by concrete evidence gathered to uphold the principles of the rule of law in strict conformity with the procedure you have defined in criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen, I have specifically taken with me the text of the oath of a national MP. You all put your signature under the words "I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to take care of the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people." They vowed to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out their duties in the interests of all their fellow countrymen. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, this was mentioned as a sailor of the Ironworks. I'm a firm opponent in dealing with the question of how it was done in the 17th year. There is only one way for this to happen that the law is one for all. This is an unprecedented corruption that has plagued not only Ukraine. And so, with full responsibility, I ask you to grant immediate permission to bring Mr. Rosenblat to justice, to his arrest and arrest. Another way out, if we care about the law, about the country, about the Ukrainian people, about parliamentaryism and other very high and valuable things that actually unite this country, we don't have. We need to show that evil is punished even if it has formal integrity. Otherwise, people leave our country without faith in it. It's up to you now. Now, in truth, this is the biggest conflict in the Ukrainian Parliament in recent years, and you have to solve it in a simple way by three times pressing the pros button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u198	Thank you. And I give the floor to explain to the national deputy of Ukraine Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. From the rostrum, right? Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u199	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, standing here must have been more embarrassing than I could ever have imagined in my life. Because really the accusations that I'm being blamed for today are really for me, well, I'm saying how it is, it's a tragedy. Because all my life I've worked for this country. I was doing my job. I have spent my whole life with honor. I chose my constituency. And I was entrusted with the task of becoming Ukraine’s national deputy. From the early days, I began to fight for the future of our country, for the amber in which I was today accused of belonging to the Ukrainian people. I've written a law, and I've added a lot of colleagues to it. And he did all he could to make sure that he was really accepted today. Sadly, this did not happen. I don't want to just go into the details right now. But I just want to say. What happened to us and what really happened to us last year before my office was a undercover Special Agent, it's, in fact, today is that danger and that threat that really is for every Ukrainian citizen today. Because any provocation by creating bribes or other crime is wrong, it is a violation of human rights. But that's not what I'm talking about. I'm going to read a little article from one of our colleagues who, just on one of the channels, read seriously the following words: What does this indicate? WE ARE forced to invent schemes. Would that be a pattern? But never in my life. I would like to thank the Attorney General for actually applying and Mr. Polakov has registered 370 articles that prohibit the provocation of bribes. And I think this case will be investigated. It will really reveal all the questions that we have today. How were these evidence given, how did they gather, how did it all happen, and how did they get there and where? So I just want to ask you one thing. I spoke on my faction yesterday, and today I am addressing the entire Parliament, the face of our Ukrainian people. I want you to remove from me the parliamentary immunity and I have the right to prove my right in a fair trial, with all its consequences. And I'm ready to answer for that. I'm here. I already know what they put, like, excuse me, on a totalitator when I get out of this country, which I have a passport, which country. I say again. I've been a citizen of Ukraine my whole life. My parents are buried here, my whole family is buried here. And I'm gonna stay here, no matter how hard it gets. So I won't say anything else. I just want to ask you to vote for the removal of the inviolability and so that I can defend my honour in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u200	The first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, is invited to announce the conclusion of the Committee. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u201	Honourable Head, fellow national MPs, committee meeting on 7 July this year, with the participation of the Attorney General, discussed the submission of an agreement to bring the criminal responsibility of Deputy Borislav Solomonovich Rosenblatt, the agreement to detain the people's deputy Rosenblat and the consent to be elected as Deputy General of Ukraine Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich in the form of a precautionary measure in the form of custody, arrest, and detention, and filed with the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Attorney General of Ukraine on 21 June 17th. The application was initiated by the Deputy Attorney General, the head of the SAP by Cold Nazar Ivanovich. He asks to consider submission, to give consent and to bring criminal responsibility, and to arrest, and to arrest, a national deputy, to take him into custody. The report states that the trial found that Borislav Rosenblatt from 02.10.16 to 19.06. In 17 years, he committed a criminal offence in the sphere of service, a responsibility for which part two of article 240, "Contravention of the rules of protection or use of nudaries", part four, 368, "Admission of proposals, promises or receiving the wrong benefit of a service person", part two, 369, "Violence of influence", part three, "Influence of crime by a group of persons", part three, 369, with the symbol 2 "Violence of influence" of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The committee noted that the date of the discovery of criminal conduct was November 28th, 16th. At the same time, some evidence of Rosenblatt’s involvement in socially dangerous activities was obtained prior to the discovery of this criminal act. At the same time, as was noted when considering the previous submission concerning the deputy of Polakov, there was no indication of the reasons why the search and other procedural measures had been carried out and whether they had been approved by the investigating judge on this matter. The Committee took note of the information provided by the Attorney-General of Ukraine that the Committee on the possible abuse of power and official powers in the area of operational and investigative investigations and provocations of bribery have been submitted to the Single State Register of Investigative Investigations. In the course of such an investigation, a legal assessment will be given to the actions indicated. But as the Attorney General has explained, we should not count on it in particular. The committee adopted conclusions on all three submissions, and found them to be well-founded, legitimate and worthy of support, which resulted in, frankly, a major reaction to the genius video that was shown at the meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Rules. Nevertheless, the issue of critical violations in the activities of NABU, the SRD Act, the Criminal Procedural Code, and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which threatens liability for term, imprisonment for up to 7 years, is nowhere to be addressed and must be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u202	Thank you for clarifying the position of the committee. Dear colleagues, we now have statements under the Rules from the factions. Please sign up. The Radical Party is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u203	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You, Mr. Rosenblatt, say you've worked for Ukraine your whole life. That's not true. You've worked your whole life in your own pocket. I remember when I called you in 2008 an entrepreneur from Zitomir and asked you not to cut out the dairy factory in Priloki. 400 people, 400 families lost their jobs because of you. Because you bought that milk factory for a penny to cut it into scrap metal. Because of you, my countrymen are out of a job. There was an opportunity to rebuild that factory, there was an opportunity for people to quit their jobs, but your greed, your desire to earn from simple labor, exceeded everything in the world. Just like that video shown by Naboo and Sapom, you're a legal millionaire, you're taking cop bribes. Why? Because you're greedy, you've forgotten that the Criminal Code needs to be worshipped, and you're a natural loser who's lost his greed, because if you weren't so greedy, you'd still be robbing people. Now, about what you didn't escape, you didn't run away for one reason, because you were guaranteed to vote off the inviolability, and not enough votes for arrest and detention, and if you weren't sure about it, you'd have forgiven your German passports in your pocket for a long time, and I don't think it's just a German passport. And like you, Mr. Rosenblatt, in the Supreme Council, at least half of those who go to parliament to lobby their own businesses to cover themselves with parliamentary intrusiveness, to cut out milk factories, to drain the land at the expense of the Ukrainian laborers. You jumped up here to the ceiling and on all the demands of President Dustenk you voted, today you represent yourself as a victim of repression, you're not a victim of repression, you're part of this system, and you have to answer. That's why the Radical Party faction. The head of parliament says that there is no political will factions to vote off the inviolability of all MPs. The Radical Party team has such political will, we demand that the Head of Parliament bring to the attention of the Supreme Council for adoption in the second reading and in general the amendments to the Constitution on the lifting of parliamentary immunity, and so since 2015 my law on the procedure of impeachment of the President of Ukraine, on the provisional commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine all should be equal before the law, the Supreme Council should not be a place where they would hide such as Rosenblatt, who used their mandate to earn, plunder and "bring the pen" of that country. That's why we vote in favour of bringing responsibility, arrest and detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u204	Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Oleg Barn. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u205	Praise Jesus Christ! Once again, from prison and money don't deny it, but by the way, I also went a little bit of the way when in 2009, seventh, there was a village head and was arrested and planted. Moreover, even through the Supreme Council, with the help of deputies from the Fatherland of Wooden and Highlanders, with the help of the head of the Ternopil government of the Chizmar, the re-elections of the Nagorian village head were fabricated because it did not allow the land of the Nagorian horse factory to be drained. But time goes on and on. So when we talk about integrity and honesty, we remember, I say again, that some have turned the Supreme Council into political activity, into business, and we know what kind of cash was being paid and taxis for parliamentary appeals. And the other thing is, be with people, earn, pay taxes, taxes in the defense budget for Ukraine's same colporteurs, pensioners. And I ask you very much, do not be among the same cattle in the sight of the people, but respect your people, and do not hide your ones, but give them the opportunity to cleanse themselves, to be equal to the people, and not to block the rostrum, but to vote for the laws. And when we want to talk more about MPs, I'm here supporting Borislav Rosenblatt, who clearly said from the rostrum to support his proposal to remove the inviolability. And more than that, if the MPs from whom the inviolability has been removed now agree and voluntarily surrender all their passports, it will only be a confirmation of their rightfulness and the need to vote in favour of other decisions or arrests will fall. So I call on the deputies, my colleagues, and the Ukrainian people to avoid such precedents, to think about who to vote for before the elections. And if some people talk about changing the election system to a party, I call on those people to ask the people they want the election system? Because it's as corrupt as the party election system they're taking. Corruption immediately begins with listings, proving its unscrupulousness and corruption. People demand a hard cheerleader, people need to know who they're choosing, who they're going to ask, and who they're going to ask, and who they're going to apologize for, and who they're going to beat, or who they're going to shoot. Go clean before God, prove your truth in court, but we MPs have no right to judge. It's only for the court to judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u206	From the Self-Help faction, who? Yegor Sobolev. After the performances, after the performances, yes, yes, yes, now Yegor Sobolje from Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u207	Honor to all representatives of Parliament who voted in favour of all the filings of the Anti-Corruption Office, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney-General. I'm just remembering how we came into this Council and I'm going to say, I'm really happy to see how many people I see from Maidan: Andri Parubai, Self-Defense, Misha Gavriluk. And how glad I was to see the combatants that were for me and will always be heroes for what they did in 2014. And it's scary to realize that we're on the other side of the barricade now, when some people say exactly like Yanukovich's people say -- this is our son of a bitch, we're not going to give him up. I have a huge request, the same Jaguar, who tortured Misha in Maidan, he sweated the first, one of the first, unit of the militia to fight Russian terrorists under Slavian and Kramatorski. Everyone has the opportunity to present himself today as a real representative of people, not of a slave, not of a gang, not of a man who covers a terrible circular message that began long before Yanukovich and that we cannot part with. I have a request for Parliament's leadership, after consenting to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of Borislav Rosenblatt, to return to the same decisions regarding Maxim Polyakov and Eugene Dedey. I ask these representatives of the People's Front to initiate it themselves, to go to the rostrum and say, we're not afraid, we're ready to stand as all citizens stand before today's court, today's prosecutor's office, today's Ukraine. It will be worthy of Parliament, it will be worthy of society, and it will be worthy of the things that we have passed together.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u208	Please, one minute to the national deputy of Chizmaru, mentioned during the presentations, and he requires the Rules of Procedure of this minute and then the records of the Ukrainian National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u209	Dear colleagues, one of the previous national MPs from WFP, by the way, is three times tried to let you know that we have serious deputies here who have been convicted three times under the Criminal Code. He was accused of holding elections there in Nagriranca, some of whom were radgospa and so on. By the way, I want to let you know that the district government doesn't assign any elections or cancel any election results, so this is what the Supreme Council accepts -- that's the first. The second question is that according to the distribution of the land of the Nagoryan Radhost factory. So what I want to tell you is, in 2007, when I was one of the youngest heads of district administrations to take up office, only two raconos in the Ternopil region: The Ternopils and Nagoryans did not spoil the land for their workers. Two years later, I was burning them, and people got their land and now they own it. Why they did not destroy this land. Why didn't they burn up that land in a place where this speaker was the head of the village council for seven years until then, I don't know why he denies that people got the land either. He must have had his own interest, which he had not been able to implement in seven years. Unfortunately, I will not serve the interests of the local villagers there.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. One minute we're not. I gave you a minute to say I'm on it. You have the opportunity to register with the national deputies and use up to three minutes for replicas. With all due respect, no last name, no last name, no last name, we're running out of time, we're moving fast to a vote. No! No! Please sign up now, national deputies, for a discussion, we have 10 minutes to discuss the application of the Attorney General. Ten minutes. The replicas are over, and you can find out what your relationship is. Please, People's Deputy Dove, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u211	Please pass the word to Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u212	Please, Mustafa Najem. It'll come out, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u213	Dear colleagues, I would now like to address not the MP that we are now taking off the touch, but all of us. Three years ago, we were all standing on one side and we were talking about the fact that we should record the inviolability of all the people's deputies, that's what Mr. President, the faction of which I did not support, I emphasize, did not fully support the removal of the inviolability of the people's deputies; that's what Mr. Yatsenuk said, which also did not give all the votes after the removal of the national MPs of the inviolability. As a journalist, I remember that for 10 years in all the interviews, all the deputies sitting here, all the leaders sitting here when they were in opposition, demanded that the MPs be removed. I remember crying "Our Ukraine" in 2005, when Mr. Lucenko. And in 2007, when Mr. Lucenko and all the leaders of "Our Ukraine" came out with one requirement that we remove the inviolability and the law one for all. Sadly, in 10 years this did not happen. This did not happen even in 20 years. What is happening today is a disgrace to all of us! Because instead of admitting that you just have to be like all the other people, all the other people who are standing on the street right now, they're facing prosecutors, judges, the police, the law enforcement agencies, and they all have no immunity in any way. They can be taken to prison, they can be detained, they can be brought to court, they can be investigated, they can be made "eye bets". And only national deputies in this country walk with crowns, knowing that they are not in danger. We didn't need to be touchy in 2014 to go out on Midan. Those who speak of usurpation walk and arrange for themselves. Let's take off all the touchiness and protect Parliament together here in this room. Until all MPs remain one-on-one with the law, with the prosecution and with the courts, they never reform them. We call on everyone, let's go back to that question now, let's take this off. This will be a worthy step – now to remove the int touch from all five deputies, which will raise the level of parliamentaryism and political culture in our country to a different level. I'm very grateful to the People's Front and the Petra Prashenko Block, which has managed to remove the integrity of our deputies, but let's take another little step forward. We will not doubt that we are ready to do so with all the deputies, regardless of their surnames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u214	Thank you. I'll give a line for the People's Front at the end of the discussion, Mr. Maxime, after the discussion, it'll be very simple. And now, Victoria Yuryevna's Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u215	Dear colleagues, I would like to urge you to build a new Parliament, a true European Parliament that does not deal with a round order, a Parliament in which some factions do not agree not to vote for the removal of parliamentary immunity in exchange for the failure of their colleagues, a Parliament that will work transparently, which will not violate national MPs. I want to say that the removal of parliamentary immunity is not a tragedy. Taking away parliamentary integrity, we do not, in fact, prohibit the National MP from participating in plenary meetings, from engaging in legislative activities, from attending committee meetings, and from exercising full powers. Yes, we know that we have a problem with law enforcement. We know that quite often they are unprofessional, unfortunately, to this day performing their functions. Sadly, law enforcement agencies make mistakes in the process. in the process also, leaving gifts to lawyers later, and thus, in fact, avenging those who are accused from criminal responsibility. But these same law enforcement agencies also carry out their activities in terms of other ordinary Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian citizens who are not protected by parliamentary integrity, who can also represent their rights peacefully before the law enforcement authorities and defend themselves in court. That is why I urge our colleagues today to vote in favour of removing the parliamentary immunity. In addition, I would like to urge and ask Mr. Paris to return to the vote on the people's deputies, for whom we have unfortunately failed to remove the parliamentary immunity. This is no problem if our esteemed colleagues go to the Attorney General’s Office for all interrogations, if they give their honest testimony, and if the law enforcement authorities have full authority to either prove them guilty or correct them. So, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would also like to address you and ask after this vote to put the vote on the return to the hearing, in fact, those submissions that have already been broken down, so that this session room can demonstrate its solidarity and its ability not to engage in a circular task, but to allow all the national deputies to defend themselves honestly before the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u216	Thank you. I will now take the floor for clarification, since I consider it to be meaningful and important. So in spite of the accusations that have been made here, I want to stress that the examination of all submissions takes place exclusively and in accordance with the current legislation, without any violation. For me this is a principled position, I personally initiated that these submissions should appear more quickly in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and be considered by law. I would now like to read to you article 221 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 8, which states: "The decision of the Supreme Council to grant consent to criminal liability, detention or arrest shall not be reviewed, except in the event of a finding of circumstances that were not known to the Supreme Council during consideration of the relevant submission. And I can only act under this law. Every time we violated it, we came to the court that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had reversed its decision. We can't go that way. There have been many calls for consideration under the Rules, and I adhere to each letter and comma of the law during this consideration. I now give the floor to the Matkovi Bogdan.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u217	Please pass the word to Dmitri Dobrodom.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u218	Dmitri Dobrodomov, National Control political party. Friends, for five and a half hours, the whole country has been observing the disgrace that is taking place in the walls of the Supreme Council. You know, today the Supreme Council could sell television to all the TV channels for broadcasts, and at any rate, it would compensate for the cost of the budget. Because we don't see any other design here. The most popular word in Parliament today is "inviolability." It often sounds on the air, it sounds out of the mouth of almost all the people present in this room. Everyone demands that the law be laid down, and it must certainly be put to the vote. We must finally keep this promise and remove the intrusiveness from all of us. But today we are looking at five specific cases, and there are no problems in removing this inviolability, in allowing the people of the court, as ordinary citizens, to protect their name, we are somehow not giving it away. Yes, because this is already a matter for each individual MP. And it changes very dramatically here, if you look at the dynamics of voting, you know, we vote here, we don't vote here. I remember a classic that I used to tell, from 8 to 11 for Soviet power, and from 11 to 8 for the opposite. That's what's going on around here. That's why me and our National Control political force are always systematically advocating for the complete removal of immunity from the MPs. Moreover, we need to limit the duration of our stay in Parliament to no more than two times, two terms for deputies. Because there are MPs sitting here for 20 years and then looking at their electronic declarations, and they're talking about what someone doesn't know, somewhere, someone gave something. What the country has seen today, we are finally destroying the main institution of the State. I want to talk to you about it, colleagues. That's why we support it. Let's stop being disgraced in Parliament. And we're finally going to do what we promised. You don't trust the judges? And who prevented us from reforming the courts in two and a half years? No one was in the way. We don't trust the Attorney General? And who in more than 300 votes in favour of the Attorney General and then when they get their turn. And they asked the Attorney General, the director of the NABU, to fight corruption. Well, here's your pass. They want to fight corruption. Yeah, they're bad now. They're bad. Friends, but we decide together, we decide collectively how to change this country. If everyone speaking today from the deputies on whom the application was made said that he was not to blame, then what are you afraid of? What?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u219	Thank you. The time allocated for the presentations is over. One minute. Done. Now, one minute of the lineup. Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u220	Dear colleagues, I have heard another example of moralism here, when one well-known journalist, now a national MP from the BPT faction, reminding me, is a coalition faction that has both the President and the Prime Minister, and along with the People's Front, has taken responsibility for what is being done in Ukraine now, as we will make it a European state. So I want him to be reminded that in 2013, those deputies who were in united opposition, over 170, had a mandate to conduct the "Ukraine without Yanukovic" action. Even before you dared to go to Midan, we held stock in Donetsk, in Kharkiv, which were blocked. And then it was only with this mandate that we could protect ourselves. But that's not what I'm talking about. If you're talking to us about morality and values right now, look at your two fellow deputies on the right of you who took money out of the unknown, bought apartments in downtown Kiev, and now you're moralizing us, and you're telling us to run the Council?Oh, my God! Look at them from the way they bought the apartments, they live there, and they tell us about Dede. We voted for Polakov, for taking away the inviolability, and he'll prove himself right in court! A.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u221	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u223	We're done. Colleagues, there's gonna be a vote in five or seven minutes. And I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall. I now invite you to the closing statement of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka of Ukraine. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u224	Dear National Deputies! Recently, I was standing in this rostrum and reporting for a year as Attorney General of Ukraine. One of the achievements of the Henprosecutor's Office I called from this rostrum the fact that a thousand two hundred high-ranking people of today have been sent with indictments for criminal, corruption. A thousand and two hundred people have passed the path of pretrial investigation and are now in the process of judicial investigation. Please tell me, why does an ordinary person have only one defence – his lawyers during trial and trial and his deputies have up to three – the Regulatory Committee, the Supreme Council session and then the investigation and protection? I think it's wrong. The only reason I've always defended Parliament was because Parliament has given permission every time the Henprosecutor's office, practically everything, without exception, by filing, almost everything. Today, when we're here, we're seeing some Orwellian book called "Animal Colleague," which is called in the Ukrainian translation, where there are equations, and there are more equal ones, where there are touchable ones, and there are untouchable ones. In contrast, some untouchables remove the touch, while others do not. I think it's called double standards. But the most violent case is what the national deputy Rosenblatt did. I think it's a long-standing, cynical, insolent demonstration of your superiority over the law that you can imagine for a deputy. Because as the former leader of this faction, as the current Henprocurorate, I ask you both humanely and in the prosecutor's language, Parliament can come out of this situation stronger under just one circumstance -- by three votes in favour of removing the MP's immunity and bringing Mr. Rosenblat's criminal responsibility, his arrest and his arrest. Just like it was done to everyone. And he will be like all other Ukrainians under similar circumstances. Yes, I remember that for this crime, the court would obviously be able to change the precaution by offering Mr. Rosenblat a pledge. Obviously, that's the law. But as with all the bribes that have been set up in this country in the past year, he must be arrested and arrested. And then the court will be determined by a precautionary measure. Please, Your Honor, do not assume this function. Make Rosenblatt a mere Ukrainian who matches the millions of our countrymen. In doing so, I guarantee the protection, legality, and objectivity of the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u225	Thank you. To the conclusion, the national deputy of Ukraine, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich, is invited. From the rostrum or from the place? From the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u226	Dear colleagues, I understand the whole country is watching our meetings today. It's hard for me, I repeat, personally. It's not that I've done anything wrong today. I don't blame anyone. My whole life I was responsible for my actions. My whole life. And today, even though I repeat myself, to all conjecture, I will answer all the charges in the Ukrainian court. As it will be, it's already a matter of investigation, it's already a matter of prosecutors, lawyers and what is really required of me. All I'm asking is to remove my parliamentary immunity and allow me to defend my honor in court. Thank you very much, and I hope for your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u227	Thank you. Colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes, so please invite all the deputies to the hall. For the final word, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is invited on the subject of the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u228	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich, Nazar Ivanovich! Of course, we will evaluate the people’s MP Rosenblatt, which is our responsibility. But we're also addressing you, your respectable law enforcement officers, stop the circular message in law enforcement, eliminate the caste intact in the form of NABU, stop the self-defense committee of law enforcement corruption and law enforcement politicians, implement the powers we gave you, we gave you during the vote, and do your work honestly, and then perhaps parliament will also return its trust in you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-07-11-m1.u229	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let us move on to making decisions. I ask everyone to take their seats and I remind you that I will place all three submissions that have come to the Supreme Council in stages. And we're moving on to making a decision. So the first pitch. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. People's deputies, please vote. Vote! [[20:37:26]] For 296 Inform the Attorney General of the decision taken. Next, second. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" raises the question of consent to the detention of the Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[20:38:13]] For-183 The decision is not made. Third. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consenting to the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich in the form of custody, arrest. People's deputies, please vote. [[20:39:00]] For 181 The decision is not made. I would like to inform you of the decision taken by the Attorney General of Ukraine pursuant to part nine of article 221 of the Rules that the submission of consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and was supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we had a difficult day, but nevertheless, we were able to go all the way. And I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. And I ask all the national deputies to arrive at the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 10 a.m. to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
