ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues! I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:32]] 318 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague, Helena Sergiyovna Masorina. Let's say hello, she's in the hall. [[Applause]] Olena, welcome to your birthday! Dear colleagues! Today we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution of 1917-1921. And at 12: 30 a.m., a celebration is scheduled for this occasion. And I would like to ask you, colleagues, to build our work in such a way as: "an hour of questions to the government," as it is supposed, but then to shorten 15 minutes of reading parliamentary requests and 45 minutes of speaking in "The Difference." That'll shorten the questions a little bit. But I promise you, next week, it's also a plenary that we can give more time to read the MP's questions. And that is, these parliamentary questions, which have not been read today, we will be able to read them next Friday. Is there any objection in the hall? And I would very much ask, colleagues, all to be in the session room at 12:30 a.m. I would like to point out that there is a Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, and members of the government who have arrived for an hour of questions to the government. Welcome to our government, welcome to the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] So we start with "hours of questions to the government." I want to remind you that we have performances first, and then 30 minutes from the National MPs. And today's responses will be answered first and foremost by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development of Gennady Grigorovich Zubko and Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich. First of all, I invite you to the floor of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG Gennady Grigorovitch Zubka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At first, I would like to welcome everyone today with such a remarkable date -- 100 years of the Ukrainian Revolution. Why is it so important to us? Because that's when the possibility of creating a Ukrainian state began. And now the very creation of the Ukrainian state becomes the most relevant. Under the pressure of military aggression, under the pressure of economics. virtually stabilizing today we need to do the things that society expects us to do, and first of all it is to make qualitative changes, quality changes in the context of those reforms that have already begun in the Supreme Council, which have already been going on for the third year in a row and we need not stop, we need to continue. I would like, first of all, to thank the people's deputies for this week, for having adopted a very important Bill of 5520 on voluntary community integration. And this is another step towards building the foundation of our state, the foundation of our state, where practically Ukrainian citizens have the direct opportunity to join the government of the state. I ask you not to stop, I ask you to continue this reform and make sure that the Ukrainians really feel not only that they can manage the state, but also that they can make decisions and make effective decisions. But today I would like to talk about another reform -- a reform that is primarily related to the energy independence of the state and the reduction of the pressure of municipal tariffs on Ukrainian families. Yesterday, the leader of one of the political parties in parliament asked how to reduce the cost of gas? I'm going to say that there are two ways to do this today. The first direction is really to make the gas market. Why? Because there is one monopoly company today, there are 15 million Ukrainian households that are supplied with virtually one gas company. We need to create competition in this market and by competition reduce the price of gas. Another direction that I'm going to report in detail right now is how I'm going to affect practically the numerators that are getting the household today. We can affect the number of gigacalories that our consumers receive only by implementing energy efficiency reform, only by reducing consumption by reducing the pressure on the budgets of each Ukrainian family, by giving a concrete answer that this account can be an energy-dependent state. How can this be done? I'd like to ask you to include a presentation and show you some very simple things that today, in the focus of energy efficiency, for the first time in 25 years, we put consumer needs. It is the consumer who has the ability to manage his property, to influence his decisions, to reduce his consumption, that he should get the tools that we propose to introduce and adopt laws in Parliament. You know, a very big job is done by both the deputies and our expert partners, and civil society, and our partners from the European Union so that we can look at these laws in Parliament today, these laws that provide both tools and financial and technical, and expert support. And once again, today's focus is on consumers who have to get quality and, most importantly, cheap services. So directly, I'm going to talk today about those laws that have three strategic goals to meet. The first goal is to form a responsible owner. In order for a person who lives not only in an individual building but also in a multistory building to make decisions, to engage in financial support, technical support, and energy - efficient measures, to reduce his consumption to 70 percent. The second direction is, first of all, to create those tools that will make it possible to practically assess where the housing is, to get specific recommendations, to make an accounting in this house, and to put in place a system that will oblige the service provider to provide quality services, and the consumer to have a clear idea that this quality is appropriate and the amount of energy that enters the house is fair. The third direction is to support practically those providers that are in very difficult condition. It's a heatcommunerge, which today and on the basis of the financial stability of Naftogazu, and because of the fact that the virtually monopolistic market that this company is working on today, which today depends on clearing accounts, is that today the recipients of subsidies can only, so to speak, get these costs through protocols, and this is the dependency of companies that today do not allow them to develop and provide quality services. On the other hand, we also need to thank the Supreme Council again today, which has adopted a very important 1730 bill that allows us to stabilize the financial situation of these enterprises. So directly Law 1730, it has to be implemented right now, the normative documents are already in place, and today the government is preparing them for adoption, and for introduction, so that businesses can start investing by restructuring their debt. Now what is directly involved in energy efficiency reform. Once again, I would like to thank the people's deputies who worked with the government on a daily basis, with an expert environment, with the European Union in the direction of creating a responsible owner. You voted 417 a law that allows you to run houses. I emphasize that this law only works when the Supreme Council, in the second reading, votes in favour of the Housing and Utilities Act, when a service from the administration is created, when it is clearly defined, how is the service provided, who is responsible for it? And most importantly, the consumer pays for the service that is already in the house, not just what is going on along the way with this service. And so, directly, the Housing Services Act, which was in the order of the day this week, I invite again, and I stress that it needs to be voted on, we need to issue for next week, we need to support and give additional tools to our citizens. It's a commercial bill. You've seen that during this heating period, there was a very, in general a misunderstanding of how payments are accounted for in buildings where there is already a bill. And so we stress that it is the adoption of the Commercial Accounting Act that should provide an additional tool for just counting the payments that citizens receive today. Once again, I would like to thank the National Committee for Housing and Construction, as well as the National Committee for Fuel and Energy, which supported these bills, and today these bills are in the Parliamentary Chamber for consideration. In addition, I would like to stop directly by a tool that gives the consumer first of all an assessment of the state of the house, how energy-efficient measures need to be taken, how we need to get recommendations, and how we need to move to make sure that the costs that can be invested work effectively. And most importantly, how do you reduce your consumption to 70 percent? It was the Energy Efficiency Act of yesterday that stood in order of the day, the only thing the Supreme Council could not see. But I think that the "energy efficiency day" that will allow us to adopt, including the Housing Services Act, and the Commercial Accounting Act, and the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act, will allow us to use this tool again. During this time we have implemented almost 27 directives through this law, the only thing that needs to be voted on right now. Today, there are 30 European Union Directives that are being prepared in the framework of state-building regulations that are being implemented today, which are already being published and are being developed in a regulatory framework with the Austrian Government to provide a basis for the calculation of how to build, and, most importantly, to modernize the housing sector that we need to modernize, which is about 80,000 buildings throughout the country. And I'd also like to stop at an additional tool to create an energy efficiency fund. You know, on Tuesday, a delegation headed by Ms. Catherine Maternova of the European Commission came to Ukraine to point out once again that the European Union is standing next to us, today the European Union is ready to help both financially and technically, and technically, to fill the fund in order to create a fund, to make a technical office and to offer the best technical solution to responsible landlords. The direct words of Catherine Maternova: "We stand next to you, we also want to support you in energy dependency and energy efficiency reform. Just find the political will and take this step to adopt these instruments and adopt these laws that will reduce the burden on each Ukrainian family today by reducing energy consumption." How will the fund be able to receive the support of virtually every Ukrainian family today? And the support goes not only in the financial direction, but also in the technical direction, in order for each house to be able not only to receive a recommendation, but not only the project documentation from that, in practice, the contractor chosen by the landlord himself, but also practically to work out the way that in 3-5 years, practically reduce its consumption by 50-70. Percentage Today, in Lviv, Suma, Dnipri, Kiev, Odessa, there are homeowners who have already benefited from state support through the heat of loans and the municipal programs they have implemented that allow today, with such financial assistance, to reduce their consumption. But what's important, if we're to raise funds from international partners, we need to create a transparent tool where our international financial partners, and IFCs in particular, are involved. We're going to make a transparent tool so that banks, working with customers, can give a route map, a customer can choose a practical service provider, can, by taking energy-efficient measures, implement, starting with the installation of the ITR, the modernization of the house, the replacement of internal networks, reduce its consumption. So once again, I would like to emphasize that this tool should be very transparent and simple. The steps are very simple: to come to the bank, to get a route map, to get access to the database of energy auditors, energy service companies, project organizations, to choose who to do so, to take energy-efficient measures, to get financial support from the bank, to get financial support from both the state and international financial partners. It's a very simple route map, but it's much more complicated than just writing an application and a grant declaration. And it's this tool that makes it possible to reinvest the 52 billion that have been budgeted today to help Ukrainian households reinvest them in energy efficiency. I'd like to show you a very simple slide (let's give you the last slide) that shows the efficiency of the first step, that's setting up, in practice, an individual heat point that's already reducing by 20 percent of energy consumption. The main thing is that the practical coverage of these costs at the expense of state aid is covered by the assistance of international partners over the course of five years — attention! - the economy of energy consumption. If we see that directly by one. For one household, there's 3.5 thousand dollars per year, and that's 50 dollars per month, which allows you to save up to 2,000 per household each year, and then leave that economy in the households. These are simple steps, but in order to take these simple steps, we need to unite all, unite parliament, unite local self - government, government, and, above all, Ukrainian families who today want to do so together, but we need to adopt laws that will allow these steps to be taken. Once again, today, the creation of the Ukrainian state is only possible because of the presence of political will. Today it is the political will of the President, the government, and I see that it is also in Parliament. Once again, I would like to urge Ukrainian parliamentarians not to unite around.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u3	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u4	Unite, not around the struggle, but around the nation’s expansion. The Ukrainian people were more united than ever to combat military aggression in eastern Ukraine. We've demonstrated that we can be the only ones. The only thing I am asking you right now is not to stop reforming, to be able to create tools, to unite around building state energy independence and reducing pressure on Ukrainian families and their budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u5	Thank you. And the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich, is invited to speak. Mrs. Lilia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs. Let me tell you today about the state of funding for education and our priorities for 2017 in education. First of all, I want to thank all the people's deputies who care about the state of education who work with the Ministry of Education and Science for the benefit of education, and especially the factions of the People's Front for asking questions to the government about financing education. I'm going to start by answering the questions of the people's deputies and going on with this. So the question of the People's Front faction was how high education was financed in 2016. So the total budget expenditure was almost 50 billion dollars. In addition, a reserve of more than one and a half billion dollars was distributed. Thus, spending on general secondary education in 2016 was 42.5 billion dollars, and local budgets were expected to add 7.3 billion dollars. We also have a remainder of an education grant of 1.25 billion dollars since 2016. This remainder of the educational subsidy has been redistributed among the local budgets and also has a purpose, which I will talk about further. How did funding change in 2017? Funding has increased, in particular, the amount of education subsidies now amounts to over 52 and a half billion dollars. That's 2.8 billion dollars more than 2016. The government has also provided an additional grant of nearly 15 billion dollars for education, medicine, and culture. We expect that, essentially, this grant goes to about 8 billion dollars -- education to help local budgets cope with the powers and pressures they have in education. In addition, there is actually an education subsidy surplus last year for the development of a material and technical base and for the capital repairs of the education sector. In particular, 30 million bracelets for united territorial communities and, in addition, 300 million bracelets for purchasing natural-mathematic offices, because natural-mathematic education for us is a priority in the field of general secondary education, as well as 200 million bracelets for co-financing 70 by 30 on school buses. The next question was to ensure that wages were increased for teachers of general secondary education. So notice, dear colleagues, how the average wage for our teachers has increased. If it's a young teacher who doesn't have an internship and doesn't have a high-quality qualification category, if in 2016 the average wage of such teachers was essentially over 3,000, 600 dollars, now it's over 4,000, 800 dollars. If we take a teacher of a higher-skilled category, the average salary for a higher-skilled teacher in 2016 was just under 5,000 dollars, now it's over 6,000,800 dollars. That's if we take the average wage with the extras and if we charge only one salary, 18 hours. It might be bigger, but it's in that case if it's more of a learning load. Are we satisfied with the level of teachers ’ wages? No, it's not. Teachers’ salaries, like those of other teachers, should increase. And you know, according to the government's ruling, we've already provided an increase of January 1 for all teachers of the general and secondary education system, as well as those who teach general education in the field of vocational and technical education. But local authorities have a right by September 1st to ensure that there is two tariff stations on the network, and this is provided by a government decree, and for preschool staff, and other teachers in the field of extra-school vocational and technical education. I want to tell you that some of the local self-government authorities have already done so, and in part they are ready to make decisions, only they haven't had district councils for their session yet. Since September 1, such a two - fare promotion will be compulsory for all teachers. And it is very important to us, as Minister of Education and Science of the Council, that this position has been supported by the Prime Minister, the entire Government of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by appointing educators to increase their social status, because that is the only way we can really reform education. The same is true of the opening and equipping of school facilities. Now 178 support facilities are open, they have 511 branches, it's not just names, it's got better equipment, because we put money there with local self-government, and it's a higher quality of education. Professional and technical education, respectable colleagues. This year we corrected the mistakes that were made last year and made an educational grant for vocational and technical education, which is allocated to the general secondary education component of over 2 billion dollars, 119 million dollars, for the financing of 19 professions that are so-called state-owned, that is, rare. Schools that prepare for these professions prepare professionals for several areas at once. And we think it's unfair for some area to finance this training for other areas. That's why we're covering it from the state budget. 50 million dollars is also allocated to the creation of 25 professional training centres. We have opened 63 of these centers in the past year with business and invested 50 million dollars last year and this year 50 million dollars from the government again. Higher education. In higher education, overall expenditure on higher education increased by 27.7 percent compared to 2016. What do we have? At NZI II-IV, the accreditation level is essentially over 12.6 million dollars. At the I-II level of accreditation, over 3.7 million dollars. But there are problems. And with these problems. Billions, I'm sorry, colleagues, billions of dollars. But I would like to share my problems with you. Because we're gonna need your help. So today the government has increased funding by almost 30 percent in Ukraine’s higher education. Similarly, the amount of scholarships is increased. If the scholarship was once slightly over 850 dollars, the minimum scholarship is now 1,000 dollars. For natural and mathematical and technical, engineering specialties, 1,400 bracelets. The increased scholarship is 1,600 dollars, at the minimum subsistence minimum. And that's never happened in independence. And for acutely deficient, or technical, engineering and natural mathematical specialties, it's 2,000 bracelets. So we took many steps. But what's next. Today we've made wage increases in part of the government's order. But we cannot increase the cost of contracts according to the increase in wages, and in this regard, the unions feel a deficit in utilities and wages in part of the special fund. So how much? Now we're a utility, and it's covered by the state by 40 percent at the moment. We're getting closer and we're going to have a deficit in the fourth quarter. And we ask the budgetary committee and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to look at the budget in the first half of the year to anticipate the allocation of additional funds for the higher education system for municipal services, and we will need to work together with the Supreme Council. Colleagues, I can't help but talk about preschool. Preschool is funded by local budgets. But I need to share the good news with you. We now have a turn of almost 78.5,000 children in preschool schools aged 3 years. During this year, we were able to share more than 26.5,000 additional places in preschool facilities with local authorities. This means that we can cover this deficit over the next two years and close this wound that we have in preschool education. So we already have a real step-by-step plan and a goal that we can deal with the queue, and that's very good. I want to take advantage of the five more minutes that I have left to share with you the general information about the priorities for 2017 that we have in the field of education. We have 2017 as a key year of preparation for the introduction of the new Ukrainian school since 2018, which I have already reported to you from this rostrum. So now we're doing a new state standard of initial education that we're going to approve by the Cabinet in May-Month. We will be piloting the first class pilots since September 1st, which will be launched for all of Ukraine since 2018. We will be retraining every teacher who will receive the first class of the new Ukrainian school on September 1, 2018. We are now starting work on an open electronic platform where we are teaching methodological guidance for teachers and new teaching programs. There is now an update of the elementary school curriculum in the 5-9th grade. New curriculums and programs are being prepared for the 10-11th class. I also want to say very briefly, but I would like to point out, dear colleagues, now there's a great deal in the information space of manipulations for reducing the amount of academic effort on natural education. That doesn't fit with reality, because aside from the offer of a pilot-integrated course for humanities that can choose it as a trial in 2018, we're actually increasing the number of hours to study natural disciplines. And our main goal is to ensure that more children in a senior training school choose natural disciplines, because that depends on the scientific and technical potential of our country, and we are well aware of that. This year we're going to be printing 9th grade textbooks and providing an update on pedagogical education. Cooperation with local governments, decentralization reform, is very important to us. By channelling additional resources to local budgets, they were also given enormous powers in the field of education. And so it is important for us that local authorities and local deputies recognize this enormous responsibility and that education is in their top priority. It's about creating a network of support schools, getting students to drop-off schools, synchronizing road repairs and opening schools, retraining teachers, and creating a modern education environment. And now with the Ministry of Regional Development, we are planning expenditures from the State Regional Development Fund in such a way that a large part of the funds of this fund go directly to equip schools. And so it's not just any cosmetic repairs to get us a really new education environment where a teacher can provide an adequate quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u7	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, we are also prepared to report on the modernization of vocational and technical education, where we are equipping new vocational and technical education centres and working with local self-government authorities to modernize the network and standards that will meet the requirements of the labour market. We look forward to working with Parliament and the priority of this cooperation for us is the Education Act. We very much ask all parliamentarians to be extremely careful about this law, but not from the point of view of stopping it, but from the point of view of improving its quality and acceptance in this session, otherwise the reform will not be able to be implemented fully, in a way that will really ensure a proper improvement in the quality of education that is truly felt by Ukrainian children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to remind you, this is a question from the National Deputies, not factions, but from the People's Deputies. So whoever wants to ask you a question, please conduct the recording now. Half an hour, 30 minutes, questions from the national deputies, minutes for each oral question, and two minutes for the answer. Are you ready for the recording? So please record a question to the government, please. Happy Natalia Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Semensi Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u11	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, such a question, we have two questions for the government. First of all, we ask that the text of the memorandum be published in connection with the international monetary fund lending to Ukraine. We believe that Ukrainians need to know under what conditions Ukraine receives a new loan and I ask you to publish it immediately in order to avoid speculation. The other one. What list of measures is the government planning to implement the recent decision of the National Security and Defence Council to suspend trade in occupied Lugansk and Donetsk areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u12	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! On the first question, I hear there's a lot of hysteria around our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. But you need to know, as an experienced Ukrainian national deputy, that another tranche is being allocated when previous measures have been taken. So actually, the tranche that we can get after the Board of Directors of the International Monetary Fund, which will take place on March 20, is the implementation marker that has already taken place in March 2017. The next steps that we need to continue with you in the context of reforms and changes in the country are not the first year in a memorandum. There are appropriate measures that we will discuss with the Ukrainian people's deputies, because you know that any law is being passed in the Ukrainian Parliament. So I have a message for Ukrainian citizens today: there's no reason to be upset. There are some extraordinary positions in the Memorandum of the International Monetary Fund. In general, I would like to stress that many of the changes that we have to make with you need not the IMF needed by Ukraine, for example, as a systemic, serious reform of Ukraine's pension system. 80 percent of pensioners now live on a minimum pension. The pension fund today, the country, has 140 billion deficits. These are the things that we need to change with you, to build a new, quality, social and equitable pension system that will, in our calculations, eliminate the pension deficit by 2024, which means that the country's pension system will be stable. And the main thing is that this reform will inevitably lead to an increase in pensions for Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, my task as Prime Minister and our government in 2017 will be to make decisions on the increase of pensions in Ukraine. But this is only possible when a serious, just pension reform is carried out. Thank you. Now, here's the second question about the decision of the OR. Yesterday it was published, and today it is appropriate, and the government will work on these measures, which are foreseen in the decision of the ORP, such a mandatory procedure. But I want to emphasize, I've already said it once before, and today, I want to stress again from this high rostrum, all of what happened to the blockade when it was forbidden to access Ukrainian nadrs, has led to serious energy problems and economic problems. I'd like you to hear this, dear colleagues of the Ukrainian national MPs who have not yet heard it. We started in the fourth quarter of 16th, we moved on to a serious economic growth -- 4.7 percent. We had an economic growth of 2.2 percent of GDP in the 16th year. We could have exceeded the projected growth rate of 3 percent in 2017, but in order to do that, we always have to take a state position, not play our enemy, who wants to weaken us. To weaken economically because the gross product depends, including the financing of the army. And unfortunately, not everyone understands that. I've always told you that we're going to be blocked from providing our energy resources, our mines from our territory, our Ukrainian navels, but I never thought it would happen with Ukrainian hands. Unfortunately, this blockade was against the Ukrainian State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u13	Musei Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u14	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency. I have a question and a request to the Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, Oleg Musei! An area in which eight miners died in a terrible tragedy. I want to thank you for the operational involvement of the government and yourself in the fact that material assistance has been provided and a commission of immediate investigation has been set up. It's like a good thing. On the other hand, thank you for allocating once more funds for shutting down the famous tericon. But I want to tell you that four days ago I was on this famous tericon. Costs are second to $14 million. Nothing's happening again! 100,000 people! We want to wait for the same tragedy as the Stepovy mine, or what? Why has nothing been done so far to quench this tragedy? Please take this under your own personal control. Only then, perhaps, will we achieve this success and not suffer people in my district. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u15	We know about the terricone problem, we've allocated, in fact, funds. The Deputy Prime Minister regularly visits this area – Kistion Vladimir Alexiyovich. Projective documentation is being developed to make everything as necessary, and supporting works are actually being done. As soon as the entire set of preparatory work is complete, we'll start that work immediately, just as we've basically unlocked or started this process at all, because there's, in principle, a lot of years of terricone, but it is. No one has systematically dealt with this issue. So I think that in the near future the situation will only improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Vitaly Semenovich was a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u17	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Vitaly Semenovich was a smoker. I think the government knows that there is a serious problem with the fact that chemical plants do not actually work to produce nitrogen fertilizers, and we are starting to have a soybean, that is, a problem with nitrogen fertilizers. What does the government plan to do so that we do not tear down the sower? That's the first question. And the second question I have is the report of the Minister of Education and Science of Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna. The Ministry of Education and Science will be able to form a new EDEBO system, an electronic system that includes graduates and graduates, by this year's release? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u18	Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u19	Dear fellow MPs, yesterday during a government meeting, at the direction of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine, a joint meeting was held with the Committee of the Supreme Council and my conversation with Grigory Mikhailovich Zabotny, in the second hour, where 10 National Deputies of the Agarna Committee were present, where government officials, representatives of the chemical sector, representatives of associations and two factories were present. We're talking about that the Nitrogen plant and the Plain Azores are stopped in connection with the gas payoff. At the same time, the Ministry of Economics carried out appropriate work on the monopolization of the market and the violation of legislation. And there was an appeal to the Antimonopoly Committee. A mechanism is proposed for yesterday and this morning. First. Conducting a meeting of the Agro-Economics Committee of the Supreme Council on the procedure for the monopolization of the market. The Antimonopoly is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. Two steps have been taken by the government and the Ministry of Economy and the APC, the first being to conduct a real financial audit on the basis of the information we receive on decision-making. And the third. The Naftogaz of Ukraine and the enterprises, we're talking about private property, we need to present a real mechanism for starting and fulfilling the obligations of the previous payment they received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Kirichenko Alexei Mikolaiovich. Second question, please, Mrs. Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Vitalia Semenovich, for this question. Because the only public education base was actually in a very difficult position, because the software had been in private since the reign of Dmitri Tobacco. And we were finally able to buy software as a result of a transparent, open tender. And I'm sure we'll make it. And we're going to see the general secondary education test at the right time, and we're going to have an introductory campaign. And maybe the only state base on education and science isn't going to provide any other, additional functions for now, at this point, but it's going to be clearly focused on ensuring that documents are submitted and that a clear introductory campaign is carried out at higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Kirichenko conveys the word Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the honourable Prime Minister, more specifically, a request. We have a request for you to publish the Memorandum of Understanding with the International Monetary Fund immediately. I would like to inform you that I have applied to the court with the obligation to publish a memorandum through the court. One of the commitments you made there is the freezing of wage increases this year. Mr. Prime Minister, show me the fool who signed this commitment. How can Ukrainians not raise their wages?Oh, my God! How can Ukrainians not be promoted?Oh, my God! So what I'm asking you to do now is to report to the entire nation when you pay people when you raise their salaries, when you give people free medicine, when you lower people's gas tariffs, when you give farmers cheap available loans so that cows and pigs don't cut out in our villages? Give me the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u24	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, for your emotional performance. You asked where the fool who signed it was. I can tell you there are no fools. Because all we do is respectable fellow national MPs just to give people their dues. But we have a situation that's economically difficult enough, and in the first answer to questions about the economic and energy blockade, I've given concrete examples of what such things can't be done against the country, because that's what the average people are suffering from. So for your questions, when? Since January 1, 2017, we have raised the minimum wage twice in our country, up to 3,000 200 dollars as promised, we have done so. Thank you, all the factions of Parliament, for your support. Next position. With respect to other wages. We raised teachers’ wages by 50 percent, doctors by 30 percent in 2017. Moreover, the budget project plans a 10 percent increase in minimum social standards, and this means that this will be done in 2017. Other actions in the 17th year on wage issues make it very and very difficult in terms of the economy, so we've already taken serious steps. In the 18th year, we're going to take the next steps to raise social standards. Now, here's what's going on. That's why there's no increase in minimum wage in 2017, more about what we've already done. As far as pensions are concerned. I've already said that it would be unacceptable for such an unfair pension system as it is today. And that's why in a few months we'll be taking the initiative to reform, the real reform of the pension system for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. We will ask the entire Ukrainian Parliament, dear friends, to support these reforms. I just got back from Turkey. There are many historical challenges in Turkey, and there have still been, but when it comes to Turkey, its success, the citizens of Turkey, and the political elite have been united to ensure success. And I want to confirm that they've always done it. And instead of splitting the country from within, we need to unite in order to work for Ukrainian citizens, for our nation, to make it successful and economically strong and to develop. As far as free medicine is concerned. Did you ask when we'd start giving people medicines for free? I inform you that since April 1, 2017, people with chronic diseases: hypertensive disease, type 2 diabetes and bronchial asthma -- from April 1st will begin the process of receiving free medication for such chronically ill people. With regard to support for the agricultural sector. With regard to support for agricultural production. Since 2017, we have started a separate program of compensation for 20 percent of the agricultural value produced in Ukraine, for each farmer, I mean for every crop, as it comes to acquire Ukrainian technology, it will immediately be compensated 20 percent for this acquisition. So it's also targeted support. I agree that we need to work in more detail, seriously to support animal farming in our country, is an absolutely obvious fact. And I don't rule out that we're going to need a new animal support program in Ukraine with you in the 17th year. As far as credit policy is concerned. Our position of government is as follows. We believe that the National Bank of Ukraine should take more serious and important steps to make loans to the economy of our country. So we have repeatedly asked the National Bank this question. In 2017, the incremental plan is already going down, but not so much if we wanted to. So we're going to insist that this work is faster and we get more resources into our country's economy. Thank you for your questions. The government is working for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Musiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u26	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question and a request from the Poltava peasants. The third period in Kiev is followed by a column of peasants from the village of Lazorka in the region of Poltavščina. They have a huge problem. In the middle of the village, agrohholding, Kernell Group, led by the oligarch Andri Verevski, built a poison chamber of grains. Dead bees, animal diseases, disease, including oncology. The head of the Poltava ODA, Valérie Golovko, says that he does not have the authority to carry out a test. Public hearings are against, people are on the road. A great request, today people will be under the Cabinet of Ministers, to meet. And a huge request for permission not to push people on protests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. If I had known that there was such a problem, people would not have to walk to Kiev. We would send the appropriate experts there ourselves and conduct a test. No problem. I'm assigning the First Deputy Prime Minister -- he's in charge -- to form a group. I am ready to sign this Prime Minister's order and conduct a thorough inspection with the Ukrainian National Deputy and with the inhabitants of Ukraine. an appropriate territorial community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, the national deputy Krivenko gives the floor to his colleague Matheichenko to ask questions. Please. National MP Mathichenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u29	Good afternoon! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Problem with what plan? I am very often approached by voters, and directly touched upon such an interesting moment in the Žitomir region, it is the work of the Dergeokadaster on land allocation and the organization of auctions for leases of these lands. Elemental analysis of statistics: dozens of these auctions are conducted in all areas of Ukraine. The Donetsk region, the Lugansk region, which is at war, there are tens of these auctions, the Žitomir region has only one. People turn and can't form. Elemental inaction and, in my opinion, the sabotage of the civil servant of Dergeokadastra. Moreover, in these lands last year criminal proceedings were initiated for the taking of land on these lands. The idea is, look at the pure corruption component. No land is formed so that people can legally form, pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u30	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u31	A distinguished colleague of the people's MP, your speech raises concerns about what's going on in the Geocadastral in the Gitomir region. I propose to take the path of forming a commission for your participation, with the participation perhaps of MPs from Zitomirsk. And let's check it out. I think if they steal land there, they have to go to jail. There's just no other question. There's just no other answer. And I think this is a serious challenge for all of us, as it is for all of the other parts of our country. Do you have a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u32	Please, Tetjana Ritchkova is now conveying the word to Oleg Barney for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u33	Good afternoon. For two and a half years, since our Parliament and after the revolutionary government have been working, this has not been the case in the spirit sector. Individual achievements are inconsequential. Corruption schemes in the production of illicit alcohol continue. There are many alcohol factories in my district, especially the Borsztew liquor plant, which has been easy for three years, even though last year it was promised to be implemented and properly launched. The Marillian liquor plant, which is a flagman of the liquor industry and produced the liquor class lux, continues to stand. Therefore, I ask you directly, Mr. Prime Minister, to intervene directly in this matter and properly implement the alcohol industry in order to run factories or give them legal personality status so that they can decide their own future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u34	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u35	Dear national deputies and Mr. Oleg! I want to say that this morning at 8:30 a.m., a second meeting was held with the Ministry of Agriculture on the operation and management of alcohol factories. There are two problems. Problem number one. All 80 factories that are currently running are absolutely not needed in the market, because to provide the official direction of work, the associations have confirmed, you need 12-15 liquor factories. The second is the direction of the Ukrispirt DP. An inventory will be made of the real budget for the release and control of the state budget. And the third. At the level of public administrations, together with the agro-industry ministry, an appropriate 2016 activity assessment will be carried out and the need for a reorientation of individual liquor plants to carry out other products that they can do. In the Ternopil area that you've raised, we've done a proper job with the head of the district government and will make a decision specifically on the question that you've answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u37	I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, you know very well how painful the issue of tariffs is now. It relies largely on a good cost calculation. I represent the Herson area, and I can tell you from the Herson Miswater Channel that, despite the current order of Kabmin, that the accounting of the water supply must be done by instruments entrusted with standard metricology, the people of the Miskeletal are relying on your instructions, which allow them not to believe in their instruments in the public authorities, but to account at the level of the orders and orders of their enterprise. In our view, there are very serious adjectives of 62 million a year. I'm asking you to make sure that the local canal is in charge of Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u38	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor, for that request. And I'd like him to be formed as a parliamentary question and we'll look into this situation. But I would like to emphasize once again that we in a third year in a row are doing everything we can to make sure that all issues are resolved in the first place. The second was compliance with legislation and no personal instructions. Do not contact anyone, and if so, send these links to the local prosecutor’s office. The other one. I'm stressing again, and I've been talking about this in my speech, we need to adopt the Commercial Accounting Act, which will clearly give the company the right obligations to provide metering services, their checking rules and their handling at their expense. And that's why this law will give us the opportunity to make the appropriate decisions that will be already under this law to clear up those issues that relate directly to water supply. Once again, it is very important for us to adopt the law on drinking water. Why? Because today, by cancelling the decree on the taking of sewage through the Kabmin, we were counting on the Supreme Council to vote on the Drinking Water Act in order to pass this regulation on to local self - government. Therefore, I urge that, in addition to the Commercial Accounting Act, the Drinking Water Act should be adopted in the second reading, so that local self - government is not baptized in Kiev, but specifically committed and regulated in places. And it will be transparent for those who choose this authority, the local one, and who demand responsibility from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Pavlenko gives the floor to the question of Husak. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u41	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Minister of Energy and the fuel industry of Ukraine. Dear Igor Stepanovich, the first question you were asked almost a year ago as the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, was the solution to the problem of debt and wages on government mines. Then you promised that this problem would be solved and said that the Supreme Council needed help. Last year, the Supreme Council passed a special law on the allocation of 400 million dollars in debt repayment. But now it's almost 100 million dollars in debt on Lysicanskowil alone, and it's still unpaid for 2015. I have a question, when will the debt be repaid, and when will this abuse be stopped with the payment of wages to Ukrainians working in state mines?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. He has to say that in May, the wages owed to miners amounted to 650 million dollars, including in Lysicanguel 420 million. I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that today, apart from the debt in Lysicánsk, which today accounts for 110 million, there is no other debt on all state-owned enterprises and mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u44	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro 209 constituency. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Gennady Zubka. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, of course, the Energy Efficiency Fund is our top priority today, our committee actively supports it. And as far as I know, today Ukraine is more than twice as likely to give energy efficiency to the countries of the European Union as it is, and so the potential for energy conservation of the population is enormous, but it's usually about cities. And what I'm more interested in is, how can a representative of Montenegro benefit from a fund owned by private households in a rural area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. By the way, thank you to the entire committee and to Mr. Kodola directly for supporting energy efficiency reform. Once again, we really understand that the biggest impact will be on cities that have a multi-floor housing sector, have support for local self-government, because there is budget filling and they have state financial support. But once again, the second year in a row, we put in place a program of "hot loans" and today, in the 2017 budget, it is also for individual owners and owners of housing located in rural areas. We realize today that, on the one hand, an individual owner can move not only after modernizing or drowning his dwellings but also into alternative sources of energy. And so in addition, the hot loan program has introduced compensation for the acquisition of non-gas boilers. I think it's at the expense of the people's deputies that we will be able to increase the funding of this program because, given that 52 billion are being invested in subsidies and that only 400 million are being invested in thermal loans and 400 million are being financed by the Energy Efficiency Fund, we can't get out of the practical energy dependency that the state has today. And that's why it's very important for us to direct, increase the allocation of energy-efficient measures and implement tools when we, by monetaryizing subsidies, enable the subsidy economy to target energy-efficient measures. So once again, I would like to thank the people's deputies for their active involvement and, most importantly, for making simple communication about the needs of our consumer with Parliament, with the government and all the central executive authorities on the ground. So let's adopt laws together: commercial accounting, residential services, energy efficiency fund, energy efficiency of buildings -- and we'll solve this. Another would be the question of reinvestment, subsidies, direct energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, Irina Heratchenko, last question, because time is running out for questions. And please, last question, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! My question is to the head of the Ukrainian government. It is related to the fact that in the occupied territories, illegal gangs, along with the Russian Federation, have stolen Ukrainian property under the jurisdiction of the Russian Federation. And actually, it's very important today that the government of this program can't sell the products that are produced in these enterprises through third-country markets. My question is as follows, and in the context of the last meeting of the Security and Defence Council, and in the context of the fact that we have to protect the Ukrainian manufacturer and not allow stolen companies to sell in third markets, especially the coal industry, production, or the industry of the metallurgical complex. Has the government developed an appropriate plan of action to prevent the sale of this product from being stolen by organized illegal businesses? Is there an appropriate notification in the WTO and the Russian Federation that any sale of such products with appropriate certification without Ukraine's consent is a gross violation of international law and international standards? And how are we going to establish control over the study and determination of this certification of the origin of the goods in order to make it impossible to sell these goods? Moreover, illegal gangs do not hide that they want to transfer these goods to the markets of the Russian Federation and there simply sell them, and the Russian Federation will then increase the sales of their goods to third markets by way of surpluses at the expense of occupied territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u48	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, all the decisions, all the mechanisms on this issue, are in place. Against the Russian Federation, sanctions have been imposed as an occupation, including trade. And trade in Ukrainian bulldozers is simply forbidden in some other countries. This is a theft for which they will be criminally responsible. As far as the origin of any product is concerned, it is accordingly documented by the manufacturer and no legal production in the territory temporarily occupied by Russia on the Donbass or in the Crimea cannot be registered. That's why all the products are. All the Ukrainian nadars -- maybe they'll take them to Russia? – all that can be stolen from there, in no way can a civilized country be implemented. So these are rules, international norms, legal and no further decisions are necessary. But what I'm stressing is that yesterday we got a decision from the PNB, and we're working on it to see what other mechanisms need to be put in place. But there are, in principle, enough today. I'd like to say one more thing. I forgot to answer when we published the memo. In fact, the memo is published. Changes or plans to continue our cooperation will, of course, be made public as soon as the board meets, after the board meeting, there I think for a few weeks it will be published. But I want to call on all Ukrainian politicians. Dear colleagues! Well, don't get hysterical about the memo itself, there's nothing there to do in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u49	Colleagues, please, with respect. I beg you, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u50	There will be a meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u51	Respect for the government, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u52	The Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we will sing with you the Hymn of Ukraine. I've heard your voices just now and I know that in this beautiful hall this anthem will sound just fine. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Applause]] So, dear colleagues, this is a task plan that is primarily needed by Ukraine. We will discuss it together and work on changes that will benefit Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention. And thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I invite the government to the 12.30 p.m. ceremony. And, fellows, now, pay attention! - I asked the Apparatus, we need a half hour break. And that's why 15 minutes is about asking questions, and half an hour is about speaking to the MPs. And we will make up for that next Friday. The next Friday will be an hour and a half. It's just that we invite both the goddesses, and we invite the linens. And I'm going to ask that maybe Peter Prashenko's Block more sit on the front lines to get the goddesses and ours, the People's Front in place. If Peter Dustock's Block is a little bit on the front lines. So that invitees and guests who attend the meeting may take their place. And between 12 and 12. 30 people are actually invited to take their seats. And since we've delayed "the hour of questions to the government," 15 minutes is reading parliamentary queries. Half an hour. At 12 o'clock we close the morning session and at 12.30 p.m. we open the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To read the questions, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There were 264 requests from national deputies. I'm going to try to get the maximum amount read today. Others are next Friday during the next session week. Hence, questions were raised: From the national deputy Victor Krivenk to the head of the High Council of Justice regarding the admission by the head of the Odessa District Administrative Court of Deafness of conduct that violates the rank of judge. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir ODA for the provision of material assistance for the operational treatment of the mitral valve to the resident of the village of Visoza Pić of the Žitomir district of Járosevski. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir ODA for the provision of material aid for the acquisition of a hearing aid to Czernenko John, a resident of the village of Velika Volica in the Lubar region of Zitomir district. Oksana Jurinec to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the award of Mack Mikhail Groups of National Deputies (Skrum, Sotnik, others) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the preservation of the existing system, status and social guarantees to teachers, the initial specialized art institutions. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for financial assistance and housing subsidies to residents of the city of Kharkiv and the maintenance of the quality of residential services. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to prolong the moratorium on the bankruptcy of state coal enterprises. Michael Bondar to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv Regional Public Administration for the inclusion in the 2017 Programme of the State Regional Development Fund of Radehovsky, Brodivsky, Buzekko and Kamyanka-Buzki Districts of Lviv. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of lobbying by officials of the MoZ Ukraine for the interests of individual pharmaceutical companies. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inadmissibility of reorganizing the Ministry of Health of the Children's Oncohematology Centre and the bone marrow transplantation "Ohmatdit" in order to close the bone marrow transplant ward. Igor Goose to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the possible illegal activity of Intertelecom. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of 3G technology in the Kyiv Underground with the initiative of citizen Barbara Alexander. Igor Kotwitsky to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources on the system for responding to environmental challenges in the area of ATO and adjacent areas. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister, Head of the President's Administration, on the extremely unsatisfactory results of the work of the head of the Suma district government administration, Mikol Klock, in 2016, who took the last place in the ranking of the heads of the district administrations. Vladislav Buharev to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs of the Head of the Security Service, on full and impartial investigation of the facts and events that have led to negative consequences in the district council of Suma County, Area Specialised Psychiatric Hospital No.2, as well as the establishment of the role and place in them in the direction of the Suma Region. Sergey Eutuska to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the urgent need to repair the road in the city of Sarna - town of Raven. Anton Heraszczenko to the Kyiv independent court-expert institution for the provision of information and documentation. Anton Heraszczenka to the National Scientific and Criminal Research Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on information provision, documentation. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Žitomirski ODA, which until the closure of the communal educational institution "Doubiski Public Education School-internet" of the district of Žitomirsk. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, head of the Žitomir ODA for the functioning of the Ivanowick Public Education School I-III graduated from the Pula region of Žitomir. Vadim Yvchenk to the Prime Minister, head of the State Property Fund for the preservation of the Federation's Scientific and Methodological Centre of the Black Sea Trade Union. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the procedural terms of the criminal investigation of the officers of the Watt "Herson Combains". Jury Odarchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the untimely receipt of funds for the subsidies and benefits of the small utility Watergray and the provision of permanent water supply in the Beloser region of the Herson region. Helen Stotnik to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the implementation of measures aimed at establishing a foreign citizenship of persons in positions that envision the taking of a responsible or particularly responsible position. Constantine Pavlov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to protect the rights of pensioners. Groups of National Deputies (Rosenblata, Krivenka, others) to Henprocuror for the immediate cessation of violations of the law by officials of the State Geology Service and the Ukrainian Nadr in the issuance of special permits for drilling. Natalia Wessellova to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the payment of pensions to internally displaced persons who refuse to collect. Andrija Lopushanski to Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv ODA, Head of the Lviv District Council for the financing of the restoration of the organ, the internal and external repairs of the Sambir Organ Hall in the Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance, for ensuring an adequate level of control and reporting in some bodies. in local self - government authorities regarding the cost of budgeting to regulate the number of homeless animals. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in tariff levels for health workers and the increase in medical subsidies and expenditures for the National Academy of Medical Sciences in Ukraine to provide a fund for the payment of medical workers. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, regarding the non-closure of the Oril School of Education, II-III, and the Krasnov University Educational and Educational Complex of the Kharkiv Region. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Lviv City Head for the resolution of the housing issues of the Lvivians and the mechanism for the promotion of the apartment line in the Lviv City Council. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister, heads of the Lviv ODA, heads of the Lviv District Council, the Lviv City Head for the allocation of funds for the renovation and restoration work of exhibits at the Museum of Shevchenkovsky Guy in Lviv. Mikoli Velichovitch to the Head of the Security Service for the Prohibition of Entry into the Territory of Ulya Samoylova. Mikoli Kadikala to the Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railways, for the restoration of rail transport through the Happy Delilah station of the Seminovian region of Poltava. Savchenko's hopes for Henprocuror's information on how to proceed and the current state of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings for providing inadequacies in the summer field and other unsuitable elements of formal dress to the U.S.S.S.A. Savchenko's hopes for the Prime Minister to study the issue and make the relevant decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the settlement of the issue of the illegal use of defence land under 26 economic contracts, the subject of which is the actual transfer to the Ministry of Defence of renting more than 27,000. a hectare of land to private operators. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister, Head of the Security Service for the improper performance of duties by officials from the organization of the hot diet of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, in educational establishments located in the areas of radioactivity in the Volin region. Vladimir Ariev to the prosecutor of Kiev on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in protecting the rights of citizens against the consequences of the illegal location of the hostel in apartment 4 of the residence on the street of Vishgrad, 4-A in the city of Kiev. Igora Lucenka to the Supreme District State Administration for Land Allocation to ATO participants Gregory Times to head of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Montenegrin Region for legal assessment of the decision of the Montenegrin District Council of 21.09.2016 No191-7/16 "On granting permission for the development of the project to the Land Administration for the disposal of the premises of the Karapčivska Special School of Public Education" in permanent use." Igor Alekseyev to the Minister of Social Affairs for the use of necessary measures to ensure the protection of the social rights of citizen Alexander Korotinsky. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to the management of the work and social protection of the population to pay the sums of the executive congregation. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Infrastructure for the financing of the repair of roofing on the public roads R-02 Kiev-Ivanków-Ovrók, T-06-17 Ovrók-Slovenčna, T-06-09 Ovrutské kulce. Artema Ilyuk to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the Mikolai Town Council at the adoption (signed) of the city budget of Mikolayeva for 2017, which contains signs of crimes provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Artema Ilyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct based on the official falsification of the 17th year's accepted budget of the city of Mikolai by officials and officials of the city council before it was signed and published. Jurya Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the cancellation of summer time. Ivan Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Vinnitské ODA, State Agency of Roads, Ministry of Roads in the Vinnitsk Region for the inclusion of an emergency road section on the street of Burlaka in the village of Penkovka of the Letinsk Region in the Plan of Repairs by the Motorway Service in the Winnitsk Region for the 17th year. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the conduct of a check under the Ukrainian Law on "Probation of Power" regarding Sold Miroslav. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to improve the allocation of housing subsidies to entrepreneurs working under a simplified taxation system. Anatolia Denisenka to the director of the Public Shareholders Association of Skretelek for the provision of Pat's "Kretelek" subscribers with uninterrupted access to station phone service. Sergey Kiwalova to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to effectively investigate crimes committed against the property, life and health of the clergy of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Helen Sotnik to the Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service for the Implementation of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Vadim Krivohatka to Henprocuror for the illegal organization of criminal investigation No.42013080040000048 of 7 November 2013 by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the supervision of his investigation by the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor. Anatolia Evlakhova to the Prime Minister for the establishment of a well-founded electricity tariff that is used for the outdoor lighting of the population. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister on the situation of higher wages in vocational and technical education institutions. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister about the state of affairs in the bridge farm. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy for the Social Rights of Ukrainian Citizens, who became adoptive. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv district of the historical and architectural reserve of national importance. Olesia Long to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the review of electricity tariffs, which are used for street lighting in populated areas. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to cover the budget deficit on wages for health workers in the Polonian region. Romana Macsoli to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the establishment of higher levels for medical personnel of a single tariff network, taking into account the professional and professional requirements for the complexity and responsibility of the work performed. Vassil Janicki to Prime Minister, temporarily acting Minister of Health, Head of the Equality District State Administration for the Preservation of the National Institute of "Specialized Medical and Health Part No. 3 of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine" in Varas Ravnis region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of State Treasury to resolve the issue of the payment of debts for decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State. Group of National Deputies (Melnika, Bondará, others) to the head of the regional branch of the South West Coast Office on the assignment of the suburban train by Hmelnicki - Starocostantins-1 - Hmelnicki for the summer period. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, who is responsible for the headship of the Righteous District in Kiev of the State Administration for carrying out capital repairs of asphalt cover on Bratislava Street, 38 in the Righteous Region of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" for the organisation of a comfortable passenger connection of Kharkiv and Sumsk regions with the resorts of Prikarpatja. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of citizens who have lost their investments in the Sbergbank of the former USSR. Andrea Shipka to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of military town No. 29 to the city of Nnipropetrovsk. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the support of investment projects and programmes in the territory of Voddarski, Stavishtski, Skuri district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of outpatients for the general practice of family medicine in the Tetian district of Kiev by ambulances. Alexander Nechayeva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, the Sumian City Head, for improper maintenance of underground rainwater and sewerage systems, and inefficient use of local budget funds in Suma, Suma County. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of an additional educational subsidy to the Wilkhiv Rural Council of the Zacarpathian Region. Vasila Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the function of Uzhgrad International Airport. John Balloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the operation of sewage treatment facilities in the town of Beregovovo. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a productive reform of the health sector in order to realize the rights of residents of the Žitomir region to qualified medical care and to prevent a medical collapse. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of a review and use of the prosecutor’s response to the justification of the costs of state spending on the construction of a helicopter site in Canevi. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) against persons in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Paul Djublik, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the provision of ambulances to the Medical Service, the infirmary of the districts of the Žitomir region. Aunt Ostrikov to the executive duty of the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service to provide information on goods and values removed by the tax police in the course of searches. Dear colleagues, at this I am now finishing reading those questions that have come to other authorities from the national deputies of Ukraine. And now I'm going to announce "Rose." Dear colleagues who wish to participate in the discussion under the heading "Razne," I ask you to take your seats and sign up for the performance. I want to emphasize once again that the "Rose" section will only last 30 minutes, right up to 12.05, and then by 12.30, I'm going to call it a break. So I'm announcing. Ask me next Friday, ma'am. Let's sign up. I explain once again that, in view of our change in schedule today, I have only read the questions that I have received in the last 20 minutes. The following Friday, who is dissatisfied, will perform next sessional Friday, and now you can perform under the heading “Rizzle. ” So 30 minutes. And the first one we had was Mrs. Yuskov. She's giving the word to her colleague Lazko. Please, Mr. Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u55	Dear Ukrainians! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Unfortunately, today, when we asked the Prime Minister a question, a request from the Radical Party faction to publish a new memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, the Prime Minister said that we have a great voice and we will sing a great anthem. We know that we have not only a beautiful voice, we have everything wonderful in our team and in our Ukrainians. But let's see, show me a memo on how you trade land, how do you raise retirement age, how do you raise tariffs? I'm asking, why is the government's bed empty? Because they have nothing to say to the Ukrainians. That's why we went to court, and I hope that the judges won't get sick or hide, and they'll immediately assign a case for our subpoena to the President of Ukraine, to the Prime Minister, to the head of the National Bank, requiring the publication of a new Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. One of the biggest threats this Memorandum poses is the government's promise to implement the land market, they want today, when peasants don't have money, they want to throw away land markets, our Ukrainian lands, to turn peasants into Batraks, our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, to go in peace with their hands stretched out. To take latifundia to Ukraine, transnational corporations that will plant technical crops, make quick money, and do not care if there is a cow in the village, whether there is a porcupine in the countryside, whether there is a social sphere, whether there is a school, or a hospital. That's why the Radical Party faction initiates changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, and we suggest in the Constitution that we write that the main form of farming in the country is farming. In order to ban any transnational corporation, the Ukrainian farmer, the Ukrainian farmer, the one who lives there, must be the Ukrainian farmer. There to pay taxes, where you work there and pay taxes, not like we do now, if you look at Kiev statistics, we have the largest agricultural region. Because all the companies registered in Kiev are draining the land in Montenegro, in Poltavian, all over the country, and taxes are paid in Kiev. And there are no roads in the village and there is no social sphere. I appeal to all the national MPs and to whom it is fun, and to whom it is not very much, to support our initiative, to secure the right for a Ukrainian peasant, for a Ukrainian farmer, for everlasting farming on Ukrainian soil. Ukrainian land should feed Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u56	Please welcome me from the Self-Help faction, Mrs. Romanov. He's handing it over to his. Egor Soboljevo is being handed over. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u57	My fellow Members of Parliament, I think a lot of us have appreciated the decision of the National Security and Defence Council to stop the railway connection, the car connection with the occupied territories. This is the step that we've been asking for a long time, this is the situation where one of the key organs in defense of the state has taken a stand for the people. It is very important that this decision be made in full. Today, those who have begun to block trade in occupied areas remain on schedule to control that the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council are being implemented. A big request to the National Guard, to the Border Service, to the Customs Service to organize a joint operation with the Ukrainian civil society, so that no smuggler, no "breather" of this "blood trade" could transport the goods. Sadly, you know that not one person died in control of such a trade. And their memory, the memories of those who have now come out to defend their nation, is important for all of us to unite and implement the decision of the U.S.N.O. The other one. The decision of the Security Council is of a temporary nature. What is more, it is linked to the control of the occupied Ukrainian businesses of Rinata Ahmetov, other representatives of the non - Ukrainian oligarchy. We believe that here, in the Ukrainian Parliament, we have to adopt as soon as possible a law that regulates this problem, which will put this trade outside the law, which will give people, our citizens, who live in occupied territories, international law. Russia as a occupying state must be held accountable for everything that is being destroyed and for violating the human rights of Ukrainian citizens in Russian-occupied territories. Last thing we wanted to talk about. I call on every parliamentarian, every citizen and citizen to study carefully what happened to Volodymyr Parasuk, not to draw conclusions solely on the video he gives. Arsena Habakkuk's subordinates, to study the situation fully. We think it's a very dangerous situation that was on Maidan when we found out that some of the Berkuts were actually overdressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u58	Thank you. I can't give today because there are many who want to speak, thirty. Yegor, please don't be offended. I'll give you 30 seconds next Friday. Many have signed up and will not bend. Ten seconds, 10 seconds, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u59	Part of the Berkuts in Maidan, as we then learned, changed, in fact, they were coworkers of the GRU and the FSB of the Russian Federation. We also seem to have people dressed in the form of Ukrainian police and the National Guard. We need to investigate closely these violations that have now taken place.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, the next national deputy, Igor Goose, to whom the word is given by his colleague Jedakov. Please, Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u61	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. Dear friends, there's been a lot of talk in the last month over the blockade. And those who stand up against the blockade, because I, for, they talk about us dying without anthracite coal, yes. Dear friends, let's just say one thing. Only Russia gave us the good news and Ahmet gave us the coal to export. Did we not know that sooner or later this coal would not come to us? But this time, these years, what did Minister Demchisin and Minister Nasalik think? We had a program to refuel our TEC into coal gas? We were thinking about how to ensure energy independence without that coal. And I'll tell you, I've been fighting for 10 mines for two and a half years. We have 30 million tons of gaseous coal lying underground on the Wall. The shaft is built for 25 years. So let's include logic, Mr. Groissman, Mr. Nasalik! Isn't that our energy independence? To make the decision to build a single mine that is being built in Ukraine, and to have 30 million tons to secure our power plants that are now needed -- those that have not yet been transferred to the H coal brand -- to translate them and to ensure their independence from our Ukrainian coal. What do we see now? Here's the thing: let's drive from South Africa. This is more expensive, so the tariffs will increase and so on. Guys, this is a non-state approach. That's why I'm in my speech on the top of the 100th, and I'm talking to the government leadership: eventually, come to Volin. I can't hear you. I can't hear you. I can't hear you. I can't hear you. Swim on Volin! Come to 10 mine, take a principled position. It needs to be upgraded, and you're going to have, we're all going to have 30 million tons of our Ukrainian coal to ensure energy independence. And one more thing. I used to say a year ago that we had 13,000 tons of coal in Novovolinsky, which those who build 10 mines actually took the miners to the ground, lay a year under the sun, and under the rain, under the snow. And they can't sell it, and there's nothing they can do about it, it rots in Novovolinsky, 13,000 tons. They promised six months ago they'd find a way out. Sadly, no. This is a disgrace, Mr. Nasalik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u62	Please, National MP Matkovsky, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, the fight is not just military, it's historical, it's cultural. And that's why the desire of the Ukrainian people, starting with the Tropical culture, for their statehood, for their independence, through the Kiev Rousseau, through the Galician-Volinian Principality, through Ukrainian Cossacks, through the Ukrainian People's Republic, and to this day, speaks of one thing, says of the centuries-old history of ours, tradition, culture. That is why I am convinced that it is this Parliament today that is bound and must recognize and vote on legislation in which we would be determined with today’s Ukrainian state on the succession of Ukrainian nationalities, which is the history of our Ukrainians for centuries. Thank you for your attention and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u64	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to your colleague, Halasyuk Victor. Do I get it right? Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u65	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! A memorandum with the IMF can't be classified. Why is he secret? Because there's something that's not good for Ukraine. The Ukrainian plan must be a transparent, discussed society and a supported parliament. This is the country’s development plan for the Radical Party faction. An anti-crisis economic plan. The first ingredient is institutional radical reform, which is a full relaunch of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office, a complete replacement of judges and prosecutors, which will begin to restore the rule of law in the country. The second element of this. This is a reduction in the number, increased responsibility, and the wages of government officials to work in the interests of the country, have no dual citizenship, and care for their own country. Financial stability. We urgently need to make partial debt cancellations to other countries today, as Poland, Greece and other countries have done, and we need to restructure Ukraine's domestic government debt. This will enable the release of tens of billions of dollars in the government budget that can go towards raising social standards, wages, pensions, and the development of the Ukrainian industry. Financial stability requires not IMF loans, not taxes from the European Union, but a severe takeover under the control of the Ukrainian border, overcoming customs smuggling, hard transfer pricing, all that the authorities do not do by preserving corruption schemes, but there are tens of billions of dollars that can be used for the benefit of Ukrainian society without raising tariffs and without raising taxes. The third component of this plan is a new economic course that envisions creating conditions, especially for the Ukrainian producer, stimulating exports, creating attractive tax incentives to attract investments, so that they can live, not on foreign loans, but on the basis of capital that comes to build production in Ukraine and create jobs. The goal of power should be not to deepen cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, but to end this cooperation, repay Ukraine’s debts and restore sovereign democracy in Ukraine. It's extremely important to accelerate the economic growth of 1-2 percent, which we have today, is nothing, up to 7, 8, 9 percent, that will allow a substantial increase in the social standards in Ukraine. Large-scale energy upgrading instead of these corrupt subsidies. Increasing its own gas production and transforming Ukraine into an energy-dependent country. That's what the Radical Party is proposing. This will allow you to raise the Ukrainian’s minimum wage by the end of this year to 5,000 dollars. And this should be done without delay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u66	The national deputy Ednak gives the word to his colleague, Mr. Kishkar. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u67	I would like to say a few words that yesterday's committee meeting refutes the concept of common sense in this Parliament, because the consideration of the bill, revolutionary bill 4857, was made to make it seem like, without even considering essentially the reform that was proposed. Any reform, it's about money. If it's about money and today's way out of the picture, it's more money, believe me, it won't. We argue that the money in the physical education and sports system is enough to provide all the needs of physical education and professional sports. Who is one of the parliamentarians against common sense? Who is opposed to having high wages paid by coaches at DUSH or other sports establishments? Who's against taking notes in sports institutions? Who is opposed to giving school leaders the right to rent sports halls or sports halls that are available at every school? Who is opposed to the Olympic Charter, which is ratified by this Parliament? Who is opposed to market mechanisms working not only in the market economy but also in the field of sports? We still have article 5 of the Act on Physical Culture and Sports, which states that the State is in charge of sports. Come on, guys! The whole cultural, civilized world has long since given up on it. It is impossible for the state to control what is decentralization in itself, which is passed on to civil society, sports federations, sports clubs. Impossible. It doesn't work anywhere in the world. Today, by voting on the committee yesterday, we have preserved the archaic Soviet system of our sport. Dear friends! I won't make any further deals with anyone. You know, we have a working group in the Ministry that works for 4857, which is certainly not ideal, of course, not perfect. The following words are addressed to the Prime Minister. And I ask that this be written down and handed to him as a petition from the National MP. Work on this bill with the Cambino force. Work it out and get it into this room. Believe me, there will be 226 condescending people here? They're willing to support it. Because there are market mechanisms for the development of physical culture and sports throughout the developed world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u68	Thank you, Sir Paul. Please, the word is now given by the People's Deputy Podlisecki of Self-Help, who is given the word of his colleague, National Deputy Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u69	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. One of the main functions of the state is to ensure the energy independence of the state and to ensure quality and reliable electricity supply and also to provide other resources and other energy resources for the existence of the State. The President of Ukraine once said that. Literally: due to lack of personal interest, we were able to give up supplies from Russia of gas and ensure the independence of Russian supplies. Thus, we may also need to give up other personal interests in other areas. What do we have in electricity? We have a great generation, which is owned by the state, an atomic generation, which has always been oppressed, has not been allowed by the state to develop because we had another monopoly -- one private large company, a small company, which has 70 percent of the heat generation that was well-sustained. We were told that we couldn't work at all without the heat generation, without the coal supply, without the loading. blocks. In fact, the blockade opened our eyes to our energy system, and it gave us an opportunity to analyze what we have and how we can get out of this. We were intimidated by the winding shut-offs, but fortunately this did not happen. We have seen that we can provide for ourselves. It's when we moved away from personal interests and started looking at the state's interests when we thought about how we, having these resources that we have in the hands of the state, could provide ourselves with electricity supply, and we did it. In fact, today we realize that only the modernization of the energy system will enable us to create conditions for the quality of life of all the inhabitants of the state. We realize that a great deal has been done in the past year, but only by declaration. And along with those declarations, some market participants were able to do a great deal. This is the famous "Rotterdam Plus" formula that was actually designed to ensure independence from the supply of coal from occupied areas, and, you know, out of control. From territories controlled by an aggressor, it was just a declaration and made it possible to earn tens of billions of dollars, and the wagon was still there. We have not created any conditions in the last year, only to ensure the personal interests of some market participants. Finally, it's time to give up and create conditions for the development of Ukraine's energy system, and that's actually our main goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u70	Šurma Igor Mihajlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u71	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The opposition bloc continues to raise the issue of life and death, the health of Ukrainian citizens. The mystery surrounding the process of public drug purchases has reached such an extent that even after the tenders and contracts have been completed, the information is classified. Today, the published document provides an insight into why the Ministry of Health of Ukraine hides information about contracts made with international organizations. It turns out that the Ministry of Health has agreed that UNDP is an international organization – not responsible for the quality of the drugs delivered and does not carry any fines, damages or compensation in the event of poor quality, incomprehensibility, corruption and other inadequacies of the products being supplied. In turn, Ukraine has a great deal of obligations to the international organization, the most important of which is the overpayment. Accusing the predecessors of a time lapse of supplies, i.e. their colleagues, the Ministry of Health once again agrees with the agreement that the international organization is six months old, six months old for purchases and a year old for the supply of purchased drugs, and no one cares that we have people who are sick, who are in hospital and who need medicines. And the main thing is that this period is not calculated from the moment the money is counted on the organization's account, that's where the countdown starts. In doing so, it is impossible to verify the execution of funds, the use of funds from the state budget that have been counted by the Ministry into the accounts of an international organization. All the activities of an international organization are completely out of Ukrainian jurisdiction. Accordingly, Article 6 of the Agreement prohibits the conduct of audits by Ukrainian control organizations. Verifications can be carried out only by the internal organs of the international organization itself. Any arguments will be discussed by the Court of Arbitration in Geneva. So the question of the purpose of the use of Ukrainian taxpayers' money is going to be for Switzerland: please go to the European Union. And now it's the most interesting thing. Under this contract, UNDP received 132 million dollars this year, without any liability for breach of contract terms, for its work, i.e. commission services. It's only because they're organizing, not buying, that you can treat 80,000 of our citizens for this money. Such a contract for Ukraine, which is a contractor and a full contractor, requires the supplier not only to be responsible for the quality of the drugs but also to be responsible for the use of the listed funds. It may be concluded that this argument is not only signed for conditions that are not favourable to Ukraine but puts patients’ lives at risk. But the interim minister, Suprun, has deliberately signed these conditions that are harmful to Ukraine, which testifies to its incompetence and incompetence. Please consider this presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u72	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u73	Please consider this a request to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor's Office regarding the damage to the State of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Kostenko Pavlov Petrovich is passing on to Ostrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u75	Good day, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, my presentation today will be dedicated to the implementation by the government of those laws amending the Tax Code, which were adopted by the Supreme Council at the end of December 2017. Indeed, Parliament has adopted amendments to the Tax Code, which have been called upon to improve the tax administration system, to make the system more efficient, user-friendly, and to increase Ukraine’s investment attractiveness. There's a lot of money in the Tax Code, and I want to stop at some of the points that we've adopted. The main reformist idea of the National Deputies, which was also taken on board by the Minfina team, was to remove from the State Fiscal Administration of databases, information systems, DFS information and telecommunications systems, particularly the VAT compensation register and so on. According to the changes in the Tax Code, the government must first have audited all these databases, including the VAT return register, and also to determine the order of their administration and tax control. In two and a half months, unfortunately, we didn't hear that Minfin started a job, created a working group, audited databases and, in particular, a VAT recovery register, I was surprised to hear at the meeting of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, which appears in a report by the Government of Minfin recorded the introduction of the single public, transparent register of VAT compensation under the chronology of filing applications. I had to disappoint the minister, right during the committee meeting, to contact two certified audiences who confirmed that there is no register today. There's software where the payer can go, set up his number, and find out exactly what his VAT-recovery status is. And in the form in which we wrote in the Tax Code and in the Cabinet's decree to really see if chronology is in place and if they don't get compensation only for the wrong remuneration, so far there is no law in this part of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, adopting the law is only half the case, and it is very important how it will be done. To date, we have prescribed a clear deadline for the government, and on April 1st, the deadline for the adoption of most of the regulations is due. I have a question for the Ministry of Finance: where are they? Even after agrarian donations, the government has adopted the Cabinet of Ministers Order on the distribution of the budget grant, and the Minfin form of registering and exchange of information between the DFS and Treasury has not yet been adopted. Threatened to get agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u76	Please, 30 seconds, but I'm not going to continue with anyone else. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u77	Agrarian subsidies for February are threatened because the February VAT declaration is filed by March 20, and if Minfin is on time, by March 20, he will not approve the order and form of the register of the distribution of grants, then he will not receive money for the ferocious agrarians. So you have to work hard, two more periods of setting up an electronic office and a tax on the resulting capital by 1 July. I really hope that Minfin will finally start working with the National Deputies, and this term will not be violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u78	Thank you. And the last performance, colleagues, because it's after 12:00, and we were supposed to finish at 12:00. Moses Igor is passing it on to Andrew Lozov. Please be brief, because we've already taken the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u79	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "The bonds change, the truth trades," wrote Taras Shevchenko. Including today’s Attorney General, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, who apparently was not taught anything by the prison because he did the same thing that put him in prison. This Parliament has already voted its "laws of 16 January," " draconian changes" to the Criminal Procedural Code, which give tyrannical powers to the prosecution, which restrict the rights of defence, which violate the constitutional rights of suspects, I stress that the guilt of which has not been proven essentially violates the presumption of innocence. It shows who voted in favour of this: the coalition, the authorities, voted in favour of it by the "Fatherland" as opposed, which was voted by the oligarch-lobby groups of both and voted for it, and it is clear that 4 deputies from the so-called "Occupy Block" were voting for it, which he, indeed, is the opposition, including Mr. Skork, who is accused of being violently attacked by the activists of Eromaydan and journalists on February 19, 2014 in Odessa. On September 22, 2016, Attorney General Lucenko made a statement — this is in all media — about what the floor will be. The fact is that Skork's guilt is proven will bring him into custody. It's been six months -- nothing, and Skorek is voting for the coalition, voting for the puppet's "dragon" changes. What does this talk about? What's going on is the conspiracy, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what' on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's leading against the leader of our Oleg Laska, against the colleagues of Sergio Rybalka, against me. It was absurd: I was interrogated at the Attorney General's Office on Tuesday, the investigator of Chubarov refused to speak to me in the language of the State, and she, see, doesn't understand! Accused, think about it, there are professional lawyers here, as they call the conduct of "probably unpaid taxes." What is it? The possible end of the world -- maybe it will be, maybe it will be a murder! It's surrealism. Therefore, the Attorney General's Office with Lucenka's hands, with the hands of his castle Stolarchuk, with the hands of their hand-held investigators, takes over the authority of the NAB. In black and white, KPC says that all that applies to electronic declarations of possible illicit wealth is the competence of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And in fact, the Attorney General is trying to usurp other people's powers to have a tool of repression against the Radical Party, against the real Ukrainian opposition, against the opponents of the incumbent President and his godfather Lucenka. But you won't break us, and you'll never scare us. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, before the morning session is closed, and only 30 seconds after the performances. Colleagues, I just want to remind all of us that this Parliament has for the first time in statehood over 300 votes with a firm pro-European and pro-Ukrainian position. This Parliament has conducted a decommunization, this Parliament has recognized the soldiers of the UPA, the heroes of the Republic of the Netherlands and the heroes of Ukraine. And just when we talk about the low authority of Parliament, it's because we often do public speaking, we underestimate our joint work, our common achievements. So I would ask, I would just like to mention this with respect to all of us and to the Ukrainian Parliament, when we make some critical remarks. Not to disrespect the whole Parliament from those who were obviously mistakes, obviously, and there will be mistakes, but to have respect as an institution, the Ukrainian Parliament, because today we are celebrating 100 years of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And at this moment, I call this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed and invite everyone to attend the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 12:30. Thank you very much. Thanks, guys. I'll see you at 12:30.
