ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the registration at the evening session. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, colleagues, please come into the hall. I want to remind you that we had a block before lunch, finance and banking, and after lunch we have a block of fuel and energy. But before that, an important issue that has been highlighted in the Conciliation Council by a number of deputies is the bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary unification of territorial communities located in adjacent areas. And, colleagues, this is a bill that has been very widely discussed and opens the way for the creation of a number of new communities. People are waiting for our decisions. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for work. So, colleagues, most of the factions insisted on that bill, I hope that by our discipline we will be able to ensure a positive consideration of this issue. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So, are the colleagues ready to register? Can we have the registration? I ask to take up jobs and ask the National Deputies to register for the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please register. [[16:08:54]] Registered -362 I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And I would like to take a look at, once again, the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary unification of territorial communities located in neighbouring areas. A bill that was requested and demanded that all factions be placed under review and is requested by the author to be considered for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, I would like to point out that then we have important questions about the appointment of out-of-court local elections, the 30 decisions that we have to vote on, and the local communities are waiting for our decision, so I'm asking everyone for discipline. And I would like to support the committee's proposal to consider 5,520 on a simplified procedure, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to support us so that we can get to the issue of the fuel-energy complex so that we can look at these bills quickly and effectively. So we're taking up jobs, there's going to be a vote. Let's go into the hall. Colleagues, we're not going out. We're going into the hall. And I would like to vote on the proposal to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary integration of the territorial communities located in adjacent areas (number 5520) under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure, colleagues, please vote. Please support, we vote. [[16:11:01]] For the 120th. I'll do it again, colleagues. Why don't you invite the deputies into the hall? I'll be with you in a minute. Please invite the deputies into the hall, heads of factions. The bill was worked out by a working group, I understand, all the conflict points that have been removed, and this is a coherent, compromise, consolidated option. And I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I'll re-set the procedure if we don't get through the procedure. So I am voting once again on the proposal that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary integration of territorial communities located in adjacent areas (number 5520) should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. [[16:12:37]] For-127 No votes, no colleagues, we're going in full procedure. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on State Building and Regional Policy and the local government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovitch to report. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! Today, on the basis of the provisions of the Act on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities, there is an active process of forming capable territorial communities. Yes, during the 2015 - 2016 years, 366 united territorial communities were formed. At the same time, in view of previous law - enforcement practices, questions continue to arise as to the sequence of actions, the process of forming united territorial communities in the event of the location of united territorial communities in different areas. Yes, the corresponding decisions of the Central Election Commission in 2016 did not allow for elections in 11 united territorial communities. Its decision is based on the need for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the boundaries of the respective areas and only after the appointment of the first rural, rural, urban councils of the united territorial community and the corresponding rural, rural, and urban heads. Also, according to the Central Electoral Commission, it is necessary to change the boundaries of the city and the area in the process of voluntary integration of the territorial community of the city with the territorial communities of other villages, villages, cities in the area adjacent to the city of the region. Taking into account the above and with a view to defining clear and unambiguous regulation of the issues mentioned above, a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary unification of territorial communities located in adjacent areas has been prepared. The bill provides for the possibility of a unified territorial community, the subject of which is, inter alia, the territorial communities of cities of regional importance without changing the boundaries of the areas concerned, as well as a clear sequence of activities in the process of appointing the first local elections in the territorial communities formed by the unification of the territorial communities of different districts, and changes in the boundaries of such areas. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting on December 21, 16th, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary unification of territorial communities located in adjacent areas (registration number 5520), introduced by a group of Ukrainian national deputies. I would like to point out that the co-authors of this bill are the leaders of most of the factions of our Supreme Council, as well as more than 20 national deputies of virtually all the factions of the Supreme Council. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Land Code, Ukraine's Laws "On Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities", "On Local Government Administrations" and to determine the order of changes in the boundaries of the areas and cities under the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; the specificities of voluntary merger of territorial communities located in the territories of neighbouring districts and territorial communities, which include the territorial communities of republican cities (the Autonomy Republic of Crimea) or of regional importance; the appointment of the first local elections in the unified territorial communities, which include the territorial communities located in the neighbouring districts, the specialities of holding the district councils, unless the Supreme Council has decided to change the boundaries of the respective areas prior to the election. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with a number of comments to the bill and believes that it should be sent for further work. The All-U.S. Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, the Association of Ukrainian Cities, considers the bill to be relevant and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis and as a whole as a result of the first reading. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issue, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First and Part Two, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, a draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the specificity of voluntary merger of territorial communities located in adjacent areas (registration number 5520), introduced by a group of Ukrainian national deputies, following a first reading review to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. I would also like to point out, honourable national MPs, that this and the adoption of this law are eagerly awaited by dozens, if not hundreds of territorial communities, and it affects the interests of more than one million of our voters with you. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u3	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. We have three minutes to ask the reporter, and please record the question to the reporter. Please. Melnichenko Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u4	I give my word to my colleague Gudzenk Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u5	Guzenko Vitaly, 92 constituency. Yes, this bill needs to be voted on because the boundaries need to be united. But, honestly, let's take the word "voluntary" of the community. I have practically traveled all over the county, and I am confident that 90 percent of the population does not want to be united. Every small village has its own story. We're not uniting our communities, we're dividing them, we're taking out the CDF first, we're bringing it together now. Yes, there are exceptions, but let's show this country where these nice exceptions are. Let them show what is already happening in our united communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u6	I can say that I do not fully agree with the author. On the contrary, the examples of the united communities testify to the opposite. On the contrary, the return of PFO to the united communities concerned with excise duty is yes, changes. We've changed their budget order for 2017. But they will be no smaller than they were in 2016 for each united community. So this may be your opinion, but the example and practice show the opposite.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, Shinkovich Andry Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I agree with my previous colleague, Mr. Goodenck, that redistribution of the PFO and give it to, return, more faithfully, to those who only. who has become united and other villages. Other villages need to get it back because it's fair. But secondly, we need to stimulate community unity, not by means of means, but by means of specific things. For example, in the center of the community today, as a result of the disgraceful so-called medical reform, beds are reduced with a 5-7-city station, when a person is closer by 8-10 kilometers than in the area by 30-50. Such normal medical centers need to be built, people want to unite, and the education system needs to be properly built so that roads, transportation, a school bus, and many other options can be reached. Such a reform is really necessary and simply unifying is not understandable for what it is wrong to do. As the Mayor of the Hmielnichka, I say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u9	I agree with you, so I can also confirm as a majority official that all of this needs to be done and that the unity is to be with the mind, with the head. That is why the law is called the voluntary union of communities. As far as the last one goes. The last question, then the word "voluntary," I think, in a year, in two of us or the next, the Supreme Council will take over and there will be law. The law will be about uniting communities. This is the path that all countries that have undertaken administrative and territorial reform need to pass legislation on the administrative and territorial system. But you also agree with the fact that both hospital and educational districts need to be organized and conducted according to the way communities unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u10	Thank you. And one last question. Treyakow's handing over Dehtyarchuk. Please turn on the microphone. Last question to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u11	Dear Society, this is a necessary law from the decentralization reform package. We have already adopted a bill that allows for voluntary unification of the territorial communities and without the principle of a decision of 5,520, our previous efforts prove to be half futile. Why? Because now there are communities that are formally located in nearby areas. And when they want to unite, they cannot do so, they cannot develop effectively, there is a barrier in the form of a CLTC. At present, 33 united communities of about half a million people live in unassigned elections. And you know when the village of Demidevka is located. And there is the village of Plasheva, which is at a distance of the outstretched hand, which is not allowed to unite into one community of these villages, because, you see, they're in different areas, that's discrediting the very idea of our reform. What about the village on the outskirts of the area, the only chance of forming a territorial community in which is to unite with the inhabitants of another area? If we do not make that decision, thousands of villagers will find themselves on board decentralization.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u12	Well, this, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is a performance. And I fully agree with the arguments you've made.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u13	Thank you. Thank you for the report, Mikola Trochymovich. Now come out of the factions for three minutes. Those factions and groups who wish to speak on this issue, please record. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. You're going to perform, aren't you? Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people, now looking at this bill, I would like to pay attention first of all to my homeland, to Poland, to what is happening to us in the area, and what is essentially the protection of the state. The Ukrainian village, the Ukrainian peasants who feed the Ukrainian nation, is currently in stagnation. And it's not just a question that I've already raised from this rostrum: about the peasants who are just being poisoned by the workers, more faithfully, by the owners of the Kernell Group -- that's all. And the problem in general is what? According to the Ukrainian village’s policy of modern - day power, Ukrainian peasants are leading to total poverty. And then some MPs do everything they can to cancel the moratorium on land sales. Why? To store Ukrainian land for no price, Ukrainian peasants went to beggars, such as Verewsky and others like him. Silly peasants. They make pie-use agreements, they fake signatures. I have thousands of phone calls coming to me. There is no exaggeration of the genocide of the Ukrainian village. But I would like to remind the authorities right now that if this isn't stopped, if this House doesn't start to think about Ukraine, about Ukrainians, about Ukrainian villages, they'll get Koliyevshtina back. The answer is that peasants will take the villa, the hair, and simply resign from the authorities of those corrupt officials who help rob Ukrainian peasants who help destroy the Ukrainian nation and state. So when I take this opportunity, I address you, I address the government, I address the President. Surprisingly, you'll be in trouble. Because you will awaken a nation that will sweep you from the face of the earth. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u15	Dehtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, Peter Duster's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u16	The Peter Prashenko faction proposes to support the bill, as it is extremely important. I want to point out that the bill has another extra and very important load. It's practically carrying out another decommunization process. Because in Western Ukraine, the boundaries of the regions were created by Soviet authorities, taking into account the corresponding numbers in the Communist Party’s population. This bill allows communities to form a union of territorial communities according to their traditions, according to their customs, and to carry out some decommunization. I call on everyone in this room to support this bill, which we no longer have enough votes in due course. It's a shame that there's still a few committees going on, and again, I see there's a number of deputies missing. Please support this bill accordingly, rejecting political ambitions, because it is essential for the process of decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u17	Thank you. Dudenko's Alexander Valeriyovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, here we're talking about that the bill is urgent and necessary in terms of resolving the question of decentralization. And I think it has nothing to do with decentralization and the formation of a financially self-sufficient territorial community at all. The effects of decentralization are already felt. The main tax base in the local budgets in the form of a tax on the income of natural persons was taken away by a reform proposed by a valid government under a very good name — budgetary decentralization. What do we have instead? We don't have 25 percent of the PDF in the budgets of villages, villages, in the budgets of district cities. Moreover, the PPF has only unified territorial communities, according to previous reporters, representatives of the coalition. Yes, dear fellows, you voted for the bill, and now you're a majorist saying that people lack adequate financial resources, so they lack tax revenue to form an income portion of local budgets. All the consequences had to be weighed before the vote. The Opposition Block faction warned of these negative effects because it is not possible to replace excise taxes from the retail sale of VAT. The PDF creates local budgets by 50 percent, while the second, the excise tax is now only 15 percent of the income. See what imbalances exist in local budgets right now. With regard to the alternative path to solving the issue and actual decentralization in terms of ensuring the financial autonomy of the territorial communities, the Opposition Block faction prepares this package of documents, which, inter alia, contains provisions for the return of the relevant standards to the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the PDF should be one of the forming, tax-forming elements of the budgets of local governments. Both VAT and income tax are direct taxes that should remain in place, because it is the authorities of local self-government that should be interested in opening new businesses, in creating jobs, because these taxes will remain in local budgets and will be used to address the local development of local communities. Therefore, the bill is not systematic; it does not address the issue of increasing financial autonomy. And what's more, the lives of the territorial communities and their needs don't just have to be measured by names from the point of view of decommunization, it's completely absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u19	From the People's Front. The word is given by Oleni Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u20	Dear friends, this is not the first time we have asked to support local self - government. We can talk about our love for the people before the elections. But in fact, we were chosen here to represent the interests of our constituents. And Bill 4676, which was a disgraceful failure. In fact, he showed our attitude toward people. So let's not make that mistake right now. 5520 is a fully developed, unified and accepted bill by many of us. Dear friends, last year 40 of the Central Election Commission's rulings on refusal, the appointment of the first regional elections to be held at district level. Sadly, double reading of the bill and the law does not allow us to continue voluntary community reunification. So 5,520 needs to be voted on as a basis right now, and in general, please. And I'm giving you all the greetings from those communities, almost four dozen who are waiting for you right now in front of the TV sets. They will look at the vote, they will understand who is for the nation and who is talking about love. Let's not be pious, let's support real local self-government. And yet, I would like to convey the greetings from the Artemian, Andrijavsky, Oceretian, Pomičnian, Golopristski, Golopristski, Gostomelski, Zorivsky, Voyotic, Krasnopolski, Luka-Meleškovsky, Rososhanski, Owodniwski, Ljubimovski, Opuchivski, Bahmutski, Olish, Radissadivski, Znamenski, Majakowski, Dmitrivski, Dmitryvski, Novogalestrian, Sánčanski, Bokimski, Demidivski, Sovietivski, Toustski, Horostski, Gristski, Gristski, Gristski, Gristski, Gristovski, Netski, Neteshinski, Novodnissinski, Rothistrovski, Rothistrovistrovski, Holminski, Voj, Ternijski, Ternijski, Ternijski, Gorniski, Gorniski, Gorniski, Ginski, Ginski, Gwykish, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, Ginski, and Gniewanijnijnijnijnijnijskikskikskikskih, and Gnieskikówni. Our duty with you is to support them, our duty to hear every person in this territorial community and to give them the opportunity, and to give them the right to local self-government, to self-determination, is a real chance, something to change in the lives of our communities, it's a real chance to support local self-government. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u21	Thank you. From the "Rebirth Party" Kisse Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u22	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Of course, our parliamentary group supports the implementation of the Act on voluntary association of communities, but it is about voluntary ones. In order for voluntary association of communities to have an incentive and indeed, the law would work effectively, first and foremost, to focus on the social economic development of certain regions. The first step to be taken is, of course, the reconstruction and repair of roads. If there are no roads between the villages and between the towns, and there can be no assembly and no speech. Just by drawing attention to the implementation of road reconstruction, we will take such a step to ensure that the communities really want to unite, that is what I say and believe. What about the Odessa region? Indeed, the integration of communities is very difficult and cannot be such that the word “voluntary” somehow disappears. If we go down that road, we'll break so many trees that no generation will open up what we'll create, just voluntary ones. I also draw attention to the Law on the Voluntary Association of Communities, drawing attention to the methodology of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Association of Communities, where a number of paragraphs of our law have virtually disappeared. The issue of the ethnic population of certain human settlements is not taken into account. And lastly, I support this bill not as it is. What does he lead us to, distinguished colleagues? What makes it possible today for some human settlements in one area to be merged with another. But someone is counting on the economic feasibility, someone is considering what today has been the merger of prosecutors, militias, tax services and other government institutions. And if we make a merger in this way and take it as a basis, and generally, this law, then we can set a precedent. Once again, and this support comes from my fellow deputies from our group, that only the economic reckoning in these associations, just the study of the situation that is taking place today, the thoughtless unification of communities is leading us to chaos. I, in carrying out the mandate of my parliamentary group, say that we can only vote in the first reading for the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u23	From "The Fatherland" Rybchin is handing over Odarchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction will not vote in favour of this bill because it is absolutely clear and clearly aimed at destroying the village network. What does the government, represented by many factions present in Parliament today, do? At first, they took taxes from the income of natural persons to the village and village, then declared them incompetent, and on the basis of this they began to form a voluntary union. And the reporter here took the bait and essentially claimed to the whole of Ukraine from this rostrum that voluntary unification would soon end because they had plans for a forced union. This deputy was completely irresponsible here in charge of the entire Supreme Council, where there will be 226 villains who will be able to vote for the forced destruction of Ukraine's villages and villages. What's going on now? Now, think about it, dear fellows, first they took a tax on the incomes of the natural person, then they made the adoption of so-called forward-looking plans, if you're talking about Hersonian, then out of 300 rural councils, there's now only 40. All others must be destroyed; they must disappear in the process of this unification. Some communities have really united under the pressure of the threats that the head of the committee has expressed here that voluntary unification will disappear and they are now plunged into absolute chaos because they do not know how to finance the district hospital, how to finance schools, and now many schools in united communities are on the verge of closing down, and many of them are closed because the financial resource is completely inadequate. There are no calculations to indicate the ability of those communities that are uniting. Now, at any cost, the leaders of the vast majority want to do not decentralization, but at any cost destroy most of the rural councils in order to come to a peaceful sale of land by oppressing the rural population, disorienting them, taking away any opportunity to live, because there will be no school, there will be no hospital. And today, to our conviction, such a force union leads to one thing — the destruction of the settlement network. What are you suggesting now? You offer to unite villages in one community from several areas or even areas. This is contrary to 140 articles of the Constitution and Ukrainian legislation. First, change the territorial arrangement and then make such a voluntary union. We are convinced that a forceful union is under beautiful slogans.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u25	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u26	Under beautiful slogans, decentralization leads to the destruction of the Ukrainian village, the settlement network and the prospects of selling the land of agriculture, for which both the Petra Poroshenko Block and the People's Front sincerely advocates.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u27	Last performance from the factions, from the Self-Help faction, Semimenach. And then there'll be speeches from the national MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u28	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The power of this state is certainly in communities, cities, and villages, and the development and strengthening of local self - government is certainly a declaration of national sovereignty. And on this path, the creation of united territorial communities is a very important step. The value of this bill is that it solves the problem that today is in unifying the territorial communities when the forming communities are located within different areas, and this is certainly a Soviet rudimentary with which to end. And the Central Electoral Commission is given the right to appoint elections in such united territorial communities until the boundaries of the respective areas change. But let's talk a lot more today about government policy on decentralization, because the state, first of all, has to love money. Over the past few weeks, we've met with a lot of mayors, village heads, they're all singing in the same voice, and there's a slippery centralization going on in this country. Colleagues, this Supreme Council, at the end of last year’s vote, amended the Budget Code by effectively robbing the budgets of the communities by placing a heavy burden on the financing of municipal housing, education, health care facilities, and compensation for the transporters. Five percent excise duty on fuel-oil materials. Think of the good intentions of discussing the tax on a budget night! 800 million dollars have been collected since the beginning of this year for this tax, a tax that is one of the budgeting factors for local communities. Not a penny is returned to the community, but to the people! What, then, is State policy? With one hand, we're taking 800 million dollars from people, and with the other, we're using our own forces to use our own war veterans, who, at the cost of their lives, went to the front in 2014, we're throwing them out in the East, and we're sending echelons to the invader in the next minute. So is it a state policy or is it a state policy? Self-help requires immediate consideration and approval of the Law on Interimly Occupied Areas and once and for all banning blood trafficking. We demand that the government immediately return 800 million dollars to the local communities, and we demand that we immediately make a transparent process of distributing 15 billion dollars for communities, villages, so that we don't make the mayors slaves of the central government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u29	Colleagues, let's move on to the next chapter -- statements by Ukrainian national deputies. And I'm asking you to keep a record of the people's deputies. The sound of Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u31	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. Dear friends, pay attention! I want to pay your attention, well, why do we have to beat everything in the same vial. Hospital districts, so the problems of those, others, one question is, let the two villages from different regions unite. Well, how much can you ask? I've been speaking for the last 10 times, here from Fatherland alone, and you're cursed in the Avandov community, cursed because they can't unite for a year and a half because they have two districts: Turkish and Vladimir Volinsky. And the villages of the two districts want to unite, give them the opportunity to do so. You're stopping this process, you're hurting decentralization, you're hurting these people. There are dozens of such communities, and there will be hundreds of such communities. Therefore, the issue of this bill is very simple: allowing villages from two different regions to unite in one community. Period. Anything else, yes, there's a problem with that, with that, well, that's a technical question. It doesn't need money, it doesn't need anything, just press the button and run the possibility. Once again, those who don't want to, if they don't want to, well, if the villages want to unite, give them a chance, I'm asking you very much. We vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u32	Thank you. Please, one minute, Ivchenko's line. The named faction, too, is provided in the Rules when the named faction is to be a replica. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u33	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to go to a colleague and remind you that when decentralization began, you probably remember that the cities of district importance had 75 percent of PDF. The government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk offered them the formula: we give you 60 percent of the VAT, but medical, educational services will go directly from the central government. Then you gave them the benefits, then you gave them the carriers, and then you gave them the utility services, and you gave them the admintech staff and the non-pedagogical staff or the nonmedical staff. But you are cursed by all Ukraine! The whole of Ukraine is cursing this lie because taking the money out of the promise of real decentralization, you took away the opportunity of people today to function freely in these communities. This is the first time. Second, with regard to this law. Colleagues, it's got to be systematic. "Paternity" always says, "And how are we going to unite communities, when the "soviet" comes from the same area, Dercomym is going to come from the same area."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u34	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u35	The medical, educational subsidy will also come from another area. Let's systematically not stretch this process. We told you from the very beginning: make five laws -- change to the Budget Code, transfer the land to the territorial communities, directly on the "wayway," to make it happen, and change the boundaries of the areas. Then it's going to be systemic, and so you're creating in this community a direct social injustice when they're going to support this community, and the funds are going to shift from the district council to the neighborhood. It's unsystematic and unprofessional.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u36	Aresonkov gives the speech to Anatoly Matviyenko. Please, Mr. Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I would like not to be emotional, but to be aware of what we are doing, and whether we are doing everything in turn, taking steps, understanding what we should do. I would like to start by saying that, of course, we have no other way to gain effective authority than to create effective local communities and effective local self - government. Secondly, we have no other way, because decentralization alone can achieve this efficiency of local self-government, which means that these communities have to be able to accept this decentralization. And finally the third. We have to learn from someone, because we cannot make mistakes ourselves, life is short. The whole of Europe -- and don't be afraid of any stupid slogans here -- has come together, starting with a voluntary one, and ended up being forced. And we'll get to that. And do not be afraid of the compulsion, for effective authority is built up as one whole, not as separate parts of it. And now essentially the bill. We also need to understand that we cannot fight for certain things, not see the whole thing, more than that, walk in an unconstitutional way. We need to understand that we have no right to push Parliament on an unconstitutional path. It can't be that the target justifies the means. It was already for the Soviets. Now why, what do we do with the law? The change in the boundaries of the region is the constitutional prerogative of the Supreme Council. And we say, now the Supreme Council has nothing to do with it, change the boundaries of the area, as decided by the neighbouring territorial communities. Well, I just have to say that. Just because we need to understand what we're doing. The other one. We need to understand that there can be no unification of the territorial communities, not only of the educational, but also of the judicial, prosecutorial, and police districts. And if we don't see it in strategy, then we're doing what's not on our heads. And nobody's offered to do that today. And that's why I think we should stop, analyze what we've done, go straight to translate it all into a constitutional, legal field. And keep moving, understanding your responsibility. Empirical things like this will lead to nothing good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u38	From "The People." Drauk Sergey gives the word to Burbak Maxim. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! The citizens, the people of Ukraine, who are now looking forward to a positive outcome and a positive vote in favour of Bill 5520, which envisions the possibility of uniting communities within different regions. It's a very important bill and around it, as always in this summoning, again very many rumors, fairy tales, and sometimes outright lies. Lies about the fact that communities should not be united do not interfere with the fact that they have taken the money. So please tell the eager speaker who spoke from the rostrum, who cursed us, then go to the village and talk to them. Why, right after the elections are announced, you go to these united territorial communities and then publish the winning relationship that you have won. Where's the logic, tell me? Here you go, you bring your village heads here, you lie to their faces, and now you tell them you don't have to take it. I want to talk about 204 constituencies where I'm going. A town with a center in Novodnystrowsk Sadly, however, it was a city of district importance, and all five villages around it cannot unite because there is no law. Every time I come and say, "Dear MP, your 5520 position is crucial to us." We want to see who's actually defending the community's interests, and who's openly lying to people, using it just before the election. So it's going to be a litmus paper that's going to support this bill right now in the hall, and who's going to tell on a lot of airs and a talk show that they're for people who are behind the village and they want it to live. So once again, I'm going to call on all the deputies: let's vote and give communities like the Novonistrovska United Territorial Community the opportunity to finally hold elections and work, because the second year because we don't make this decision, they don't get funding from the central budget for infrastructure projects, for road repairs, for gardening, for rural electricity -- nothing. Because there are some positive examples of those communities that have come together, which have already received out-of-plan revenues for infrastructure projects. Therefore, the time has come to the truth: who supports, who really cares about the future of the community, and who does not support, are the retrogrades who want to stop the reform. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u40	Fedoruk Mikola Trohimovich. He's handing over Oleg Valerious. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u41	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Earth is the main resource for the development of local communities. What is the situation today? The government wants to deprive the Ukrainians of the right to own their land. Fifty - five national deputies have appealed to the Constitutional Court to cancel the moratorium on the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land, which, unfortunately, is only valid until the end of the year. The government is about to introduce the Land Market Act into Parliament, allowing transnational corporations to come to Ukraine. The land must feed only Ukrainian peasants, only Ukrainians, only Ukrainian farmers, and only produce can it be sold, not land, not land. Earth is the resource that will pay taxes to local budgets that will feed local communities. Instead of selling the land, we require the government to inventory the land. How many lands do we have in Ukraine? How many million acres of unexploded pies? There are no heirs from the dead. How much corruption do district authorities rent land for bribes? And they put that money in their pocket instead of making taxes go to local budgets. Instead of selling the land, we demand that it be brought into order with this land to feed Ukrainian peasants. And to that end, the Radical Party faction initiates changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. For example, article 22 of the Polish Constitution says that the basic form of farming in the countryside is family farming. We're going to all the fellow MPs, let's say once and for all that the master of Ukrainian land is a farmer, it's a Ukrainian peasant to permanently remove the issue of transnational corporations, the derebent of land, and to transfer it to foreign property. Let's establish in the Constitution, at the constitutional level, that the main form of farming in Ukraine on earth is farming. And we're going to take forever off the question of who should be the master of the Ukrainian land. So I initiate, our faction, our party initiates these changes to the Constitution. I call on all the patriotic forces represented in Parliament to support these constitutional changes, to forever secure Ukrainian land for a Ukrainian peasant, according to the Ukrainian farmer, to prevent it from being torn apart by transnational corporations that will come for a single purpose — the purpose of profiting, the purpose of looting the Ukrainian village. The Ukrainian land should serve the Ukrainians and our farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u42	Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u43	Three minutes, actually. Mr. Chairman, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u44	Yes, of course, it's a three-minute turnout, just like everyone else, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u45	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. One of the main problems when we're looking at these bills, about the so-called voluntary unification of territorial communities, is the name of these bills, where the word "voluntary" is constantly appearing and it's said that it's a voluntary union and that people seem to decide for themselves. But this is an outright lie; no voluntary union takes place because no one asks the people, no one asks the people, they make the decisions of the appropriate village councils, no city councils, no one asks. What is more, these decisions are taken, mostly forced by them, largely in line with a promising plan that is generally endorsed by executive authorities, that is, people are not asked twice. I mean, let's face it, there is no voluntary unification of societies. A voluntary union would have been if the Local Referendum Law had been passed and such a union would have been only as a result of the open, direct will of the community concerned when the inhabitants came and voted in favour of uniting one village with another, either a village with a centre, or an area, then it would have been voluntary. And because it doesn't happen, what do we see now as a result? As a result, we see that this voluntary union is going on -- so-called, voluntary union, actually involuntary -- only for the benefit of the renegotiations and the district centers, the great cities; there is little benefit to villages from such unifications. And it's actually very simple political arithmetic when there's a merger around the centre and, as a result, in a united community among voters around 60-70, or 80 percent of the voters of such a united community represent the inhabitants of the centre, it's obvious that the deputies of the relevant council will work for the interests of the district center or district center, not the villages involved. And not even because they're so bad, but just because they're working for their constituents. And if most of their electorates are in the center, obviously all the money will go to the center, but it's a completely obvious political arithmetic, you don't have to invent anything here. As a result, the result of this absolutely wrong policy is that in a year, two, three small villages in such united communities will not exist at all and they will simply die because no one will go to these villages. And to be honest, it seems that all of this is specially prepared for the introduction of the earth’s market in order to drive the peasants out of their land first and then sell the land peacefully. Therefore, no such bill, where there is no real will and there is a forceful union, cannot be voted on by normal MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u46	And the final statement by the National Deputies, the Podlissecki Leo Theophilic, conveys the word of Berezuku and then the closing word, the closing word before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u47	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, here some members of the coalition are concerned about the unconstitutionality of this bill. Let's go into the Constitution, we have aggression, we've been attacked and attacked, so let's declare war, we'll declare territory and it'll be constitutional. This law is constitutional, because it describes the reality of Ukrainian, it struggles with Soviet anachronism, which was to keep people in check. United communities are a new phenomenon that gives the community the freedom to decide what to do and how to do it. Indeed, there are complexities, indeed in one OTG even within one area. The police from one district, taxed from another district, MNP from the third district. That's true, but this is the way to build a new territorial system of the country. This law must therefore be upheld as a law for the development of the Ukrainian independent institutional state. But there are other questions when I spoke to the mayors of the cities, and today I read a letter from the head of the Elder of the God - Duchy district of Kharkiv. They say the boys and girls started off so well, it ends well, you gave us responsibilities, you didn’t give us money! We don't have roads, we don't have infrastructure, and we're responsible for everything, we're going to have the linguistic destruction of budgetary decentralization. And this is a bell for you and me, doing something good with one hand, other oligarchic circles saw the competition of the people, and they want everyone back on their feet. And this is a huge threat to the Ukrainian state, the destruction of fiscal decentralization, and the occupied areas of blood trafficking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u48	Colleagues, the discussion is over. Now I'm giving the Rules a closing word to the reporter for three minutes and in three minutes we're moving on to the decision-making process. So I'm very convincingly asking the faction leaders to invite all the deputies to the Hall and the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite all the deputies to the Hall, and in three minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please, Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u49	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! Not for the first time around the decentralization-related bills is such a fierce verbal struggle. And that's very good, because he's fighting the new one. Of course, to reform something, to change something extremely difficult, to break the stereotypes that have arisen over the years is also extremely difficult. I want to point out that the path that we're going along with you is not special and is not unique, and this is the path that all countries, successful countries, and Western and Eastern Europe have come through. All European countries are undergoing decentralization reform, reform of the administrative and territorial system continuously for many years. And what we have to do with you is also extremely responsible. But we do so, taking into account the opinion and doing so by volunteering, whatever the person may say, but no one will forcely unite communities from different parts of the world, from different locations, if they do not want to. And if the council decides, the village council is also the electorate of the people and they express the people who chose them. So all the allegations that this is not voluntarily false and is outright manipulation. What's more, it leads to something. the disappearance, the destruction of local self - government, again, is another lie. That is why I am addressing all the sober - minded members of the Supreme Council, the responsible members of the Supreme Council: we must continue this very important reform, which the people of 336 united communities are already experiencing. I ask you to support this bill and to give further impetus to the unification of communities. I am confident that some areas, district leaders, are opposed to unification and the creation of united communities, because in the future their role will be ruined. Actually, it won't. And so they stand on the fact that it doesn't need to be done, that it needs to be done as it is. But as it is, we must not be reformed. I urge everyone to do so. Again, it is the one who says that there will be no one. The Supreme Council can. Only the Supreme Council to change the administration. And indeed, this bill provides that the Supreme Council will decide to change the boundaries of the region, but only after the unification of the communities takes place. I call again, and I want to prove the decision of the committee to adopt this bill and on the basis of it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u50	Colleagues, the final word is the Deputy Prime Minister, Gennady Zubko, who deals with the issue of regional construction. Turn on the microphone, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, once again I would like to return to the three - year - old age when on April 1, 2014, we adopted the concept of reforming local self - government and gave the first opportunity to strengthen local self - government and to delegate authority to those who could, unitedly, take over these powers. Today a voluntary union is going through, practically, in all regions, and 366 communities already exist. But many communities have been overlooked, beyond the possibility of restoring historical unity and creating those communities that have existed for the rest of their lives, but have been divided by the Soviet authorities, who have been divided to make it easier to govern them. So I would like directly to thank the people's deputies, the committee that actively worked on this bill, allow a large number of communities today to look with the hope, firstly, at the parliament that supports it, and secondly, at the opportunity of increasing the economy by increasing the power of such communities. I'd like to call again: this cadence is reformer. All the factions that started reforms in 2014, I ask you not to stop. Today is a crucial moment for us, and in the direction of decentralization, in energy efficiency, and in the direction of building business in Ukraine. But all of this today comes with one word: "crowd": education, health care, administrative services, social protection. To do this, we need to create a powerful, in general, foundation for the State of Ukraine, which is a united territorial community. Once again, I urge everyone not to stop implementing reforms, to continue them, and to support their colleagues, who, by working out this law, to bring his Parliament into existence, and today we expect a large number of people to adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u52	Thank you. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Please take up jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. And, colleagues, I want to remind you, we've discussed this bill once before, then a working group was set up, the authors of this working group and the co-authors of the bill became practically representatives of all factions, this is one of the fundamental reforms that we're making. And this bill gives the right, I stress, to communities that want to unite from different regions so that they can realize this right. We can't limit this human right and limit it to communities. We're opening the way to dozens of new communities that might emerge as a result of this law. Colleagues, I'll lay the groundwork. I know that some factions have acted and said that they only support it as a basis. Yeah? I'm asking you to support this bill as a basis. I ask you not to stop this reform, but to allow and enable us to continue the reform, the reform of local self-government and the reform of decentralization, my colleague. Please enter the deputies, please, colleagues, take up jobs and move on to decision-making. And I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary unification of territorial communities located in adjacent areas (number 5520) on the basis of colleagues, first on the basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote, we support local self-government, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:12:30.]] For 233 [[Applause]] Now I'm going to make a proposal to the committee as a whole. I'm putting in a whole committee proposal. Anyone who supports Bill 5520 as a whole, please vote. Please vote. [[17:12:57]] For 211 There are no votes for the committee's proposal. I'll take that as a basis, and I'll suggest you do a decent job for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll make an offer to return to voting as a whole if the hall supports. I propose to go back to voting in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:13:42]] For 224 No voices. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there are MPs in the room who deny it. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll put it again, it'll be the last time, colleagues. I'll put it again, it'll be the last time. For the suggestion to return to the vote in general, procedure, please support, please vote. Please support the return to voting as a whole. [[17:14:28]] For 231 Hall supported the proposal. And I'm putting the Bill 5520 in general. Please vote, please support a total of 5,520 according to the decision of the hall. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:14:54]] For 232 232 for. Decision taken. Welcome to the profile committee. Congratulations to everyone who's involved in this bill. We supported local communities. And, colleagues, I would like everyone's attention: we have 22 decisions to make on-line elections -- the next issue of agenda. I very much ask that colleagues, disciplined by 22 votes, do not leave the hall so that we can pass through them, and allow local communities to hold elections in a bill set by the term. So I'm going to take a look at the Order on Assignment of Elections. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the appointment of out-of-court local elections. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:16:18]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Boyko Olenna Petrovna, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! I would like to inform you that the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, Local Self-Government, at its meeting on February 22, 2017, considered a total of 24 issues of individual local councils on the appointment of out-of-office elections, including 21 rural, 2 rural, 1 city heads, in connection with the suspension of their mandate on the basis of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The grounds for the permanent termination of head restraints are as follows. If you wish, 20 cases, in connection with death, 3 cases, in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the court's decisions to bring responsibility for corruption-related violations, 1 case, the Swiss village head of the Gitomir district. As a result of the consideration of these concerns by the National Deputies, members of the Committee at the Supreme Council of Ukraine have registered relevant draft regulations with registration numbers 6157-6157-22 and 6158, the Old Town Head of the Lugansk Region. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections, the Committee decided at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the election of individual rural, rural and urban heads be scheduled for Sunday, June 11, 2017. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u54	So, Mrs. Helena, we're going into the system right now: you're going to read the projects and we're voting, right, Mrs. Helena? Colleagues, I'm asking for everyone's attention! The committee's representative, the chairman of the subcommittee, will now read the draft Order on Assignment of Elections, and then we will vote. If any of these decisions are denied, please speak from the place and please speak by raising your hands. Colleagues, this is our duty to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the appointment of successive elections. I hope there will be no discussion here, but there will be general support for the hall. Can we move on to the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u55	Order 6157. Draft Decision on the appointment of the successive election of the Galzbyian village head of the Yampil district of Winnitsk. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u56	I'm voting on the draft Decree 6157. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:19:25]] For 193 Colleagues, give it to me. We'll be right back. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. After the decision was made, the people differed. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm giving you one minute to get the deputies into the hall. So, colleagues, it's a matter of assigning out-of-order elections that local communities are waiting for. I don't think there can be any political debate on this. And I'm going to ask you to come into the hall right now, and I'm going to put once again the vote on the return to the question of Decision 6157. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. So I'm proposing a vote to go back to the draft Order on Assignment of Extra-Trial Elections in the Winnicki Region (6157). Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:21:19]] For 210 I don't understand, colleagues. Is there anyone against the election? People just came out of the hall. And I'm asking you to ask people to come into the hall. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I once again urge the deputies to enter the hall. And I'm going to put it back on this bill. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the vote back again, if there's no votes, we're going to reject, we're going to move on to the next bill. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft decision on the appointment of the out-of-court election of the head of the Yampil district of Winnitsk. Please vote. Please support, we vote. [[17:23:26]] For 221 Fellows, advise on how to be. Colleagues, we're going to either stop these questions and move on to the next one, or I'm going to put it back. Once again, for the last time, colleagues, please take your jobs, don't go into the hall. It's a question beyond politics, it's a question outside of political debate -- the appointment of out-of-court elections. Please invite who is in the towers, in the hall, take jobs, support local communities. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Yampil Region of Winnitsk Region 6157. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:24:58]] For 226 We're back. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on Assignment of the 6157 Extra Elections. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[17:25:23]] For 230 Thank you. Please read the following numbers, we'll read them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u57	6157-1. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u58	Please support 6157-1, please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? This is an election in 22 communities. [[17:25:51]] For 232 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u59	6157-2, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u60	6157-2 please support, please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:26:14]] For 231 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u61	6157-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u62	6157-3 please support, please vote. Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[17:26:37]] For 234 Decision taken. It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u63	6157-4, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u64	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote in favour of the ruling as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:27:01]] For 233 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u65	6157-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u66	6157. There was a "three," now there's a "four." Yeah? Mrs. Olena, what time is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u67	6157-4. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u68	6157-4, if you'll excuse me, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u69	I'm sorry, 6157-5. 6157-5, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u70	Five. Vote 6157-5, please. [[17:27:46]] For 235 It's been decided. 6157-6 please vote, please support. [[17:28:09]] For 231 231 for. It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u71	6157-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u72	Please vote, please support. [[17:28:30.]] For 233 233 for. It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u73	6157-8. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u74	Please vote, please support. [[17:28:53]] For 224 Colleagues, please return to the hall. I ask you to take up your jobs, every vote has a weight after this vote. I ask you to vote in favour of returning to the ruling. May I vote in favour of the return to the ruling, please support. [[17:29:23]] For 235 We're back, 235, decision taken. I repeat 6157-8 as a whole, please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:29:44]] For 237 237 for. It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u75	6157-9. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u76	Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. Please vote carefully in your workplace. [[17:30:06]] For 238. 238, yes. It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u77	6157-10. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u78	Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:30:28]] For 232 232, decree adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u79	6157-11, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u80	Please vote, please support. [[17:30:49]] For 233 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u81	6157-12, please stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u82	Please vote, please support. [[17:31:11]] For 231 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u83	6157-13, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u84	Please vote, please support. [[17:31:31]] For 229 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u85	6157-14, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u86	Please support me, colleagues, please vote. [[17:31:51]] For 232 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u87	6157-15, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u88	Please vote, please support. We support you, colleagues. [[17:32:12]] For 228 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u89	6157-16, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u90	Please vote. Please be supportive. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:32:34]] For 228 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u91	6157-17, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u92	Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. All documents were handed out, all documents in hand were issued in advance to each MP. We call the speed regulation number simple. [[17:32:57]] For 230 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u93	6157-18, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u94	Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:33:19]] For 236 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u95	6157-19, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u96	Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. There are four decrees left. [[17:33:41]] For 232 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u97	6157-20, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u98	Please vote, please support. [[17:34:03]] For 235 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u99	6157-21, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u100	Please be supportive. [[17:34:24]] For 235 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u101	6157-22, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u102	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:34:45.]] For 234 It's been decided. And the final decision, colleagues. Let's focus, let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u103	6158, please stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u104	Please vote, please support. In general. [[17:35:08]] For 235 It's been decided. Colleagues, we have fulfilled our important responsibility, and we have appointed out - of - turn elections in the communities. And now, colleagues, I would like to inform you that, as you recall, two bills have been tabled as urgent by the President of Ukraine. One of them has already been considered on the committee, this is a bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. The bill, which enables soldiers and the younger army to free themselves from making a declaration (6172). And, colleagues, I'm now putting to the vote the proposal that we now go to the consideration of this bill. The president identified him as urgent. I ask you to vote, please support us to move now to the consideration of Law 6172, amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Please vote. Please be supportive. We vote, colleagues, we support the Ukrainian military. Please vote. [[17:36:22]] For 209 I, my colleagues, will point you out once again, it's about making a junior officer's warehouse. Give me a minute, Gerasimov, just remind you. Arthur, remind me of the bill. From the rostrum, from the rostrum, Arthur. He's been designated president as an emergency. Please, Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, this Bill 6172 was today unanimously supported by the committee, where the head of the committee is Yegor Sobolev, in the first reading, for adoption in the first reading and with a reduced procedure for second reading. It is a great request to support the vote in the first reading today. Why? Because then we're going to get a week to quietly make all the amendments, to take into account all the comments that were made small so that we can get to a successful second-reading vote in a week. Please support today's inclusion in the agenda and then the first reading and the shorter procedure in the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u106	My colleagues, the lawyers, explained to me what was going on. You don't have to put it in the agenda. We turned it on in the morning, it was defined as urgent. I can put it right up for consideration, the bill. And that's why I'm going to look at the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. And I invite you to the report of the President. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, it's a shortened procedure first. Yes, you do. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, 6172 is a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:38:26]] For-200 200 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u107	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, your attention is drawn to the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (No.6172), introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. The bill proposes that the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act will not be extended to military service personnel on call, under contracts from members of military, senior, senior and junior officers, I refer to lieutenants, senior lieutenants, junior lieutenants, captains, as well as senior military instructors and higher education staff who have military training units in their ranks. The need to make the selected change is due to the following: According to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, military officials of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and others formed in accordance with Ukrainian laws, military formations, excluding military service officers, are obliged to submit a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of state or local self-government by 1 April of the year on the official NAMC website last year. But let's imagine when a tank commander, or a junior lieutenant, or a private or a contract sergeant, sitting on a roadblock, in a blinding, in a trench, they have, firstly, an electronic key, secondly, to find a secure electronic system, fill out a declaration and place it in open access on the NAZK site. First of all, we have to make it clear that it's almost impossible on the front. Secondly, we need to understand that when we fight the war against the aggression of the Russian Federation, we can open up data to those on the front line today. In view of the above, I ask you today to support this bill in the first reading and also to vote in favour of preparing it for the second reading in a simplified procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, Igor Popov. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u109	Dear Irina Volodymyr, dear colleagues! Today, March 14, a committee meeting was held to prevent and combat corruption. The members of the committee understand, of course, the problem of filling out electronic declarations with our citizens who are now on the cutting edge. However, such a bill should be clear and unambiguous. Our task in adopting this bill is not to create confusion in interpretation and not to withdraw from the obligation to declare those categories of citizens who work in really corrupt jobs. Thus, the committee made the appropriate decision. First. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. The other one. Recommend a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading. We all understand that the deadline for submitting declarations is up. That's why we have to work fast and fast. Members of the committee already have amendments and suggestions regarding the text of the bill. That's why we're planning to create a working group that will quickly consider proposals and committee members and all the national MPs and introduce a balanced and agreed bill. During the discussion and discussion of the bill, it became clear that it was not enough to amend article 3 of the Prevention of Corruption Act but also part of the fifth article of the Act, which defined the list of persons who could be released from the declaration during the military service at the point of mobilization, with the subsequent introduction of the declaration after the end of the military service at the point of mobilization. Such a legislative initiative also needs to be adjusted in the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Therefore, if the subject of the legislative initiative does not object, we will work together with the representative of the subject in the working group on all these proposals and introduce a bill that will be supported in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, please, we have to write down a bill for discussion. And I'm asking the factions to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, we support this bill in the first reading. Today, I reviewed his anticorruption committee. But we warn against the second reading of this bill from words, comas and sentences that have deprived people of the possibility of filling out electronic declarations throughout their life working in the public service, including in the army or in higher education institutions, and they do not want to do so. This is why we warn the committee that prepares the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u112	Thank you for your clear position, Mr. Oleg. Please, from the Rosenblatt Borislav Block of Peter Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u113	Thank you, colleagues. I also ask you to support the bill in the first reading and to work on the second reading. The only warning there is. We have a lot of units that take part in hostilities, and people really can't fill out declarations in trenches. But there are a lot of people who are in warehouses, in other services that are constantly going through material and technical resources. And that's why this bill really needs to be worked out so that those people, well, don't get into the benches of those people who just get away from taxation and from E-declaration in general. So really all of these amendments, they need to be redrafted, and the law needs to be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u114	Thank you for your position. Please, Mr. Germanko of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u115	Germany, Opposition Block. Respected colleagues, the question was raised and raised very correctly that someone with a light hand had expanded the number of persons who were subject to these tortures to fill out the declaration, without any relation to State activities and activities in the self-government bodies and those who were equal to them, as provided for in the Prevention of Corruption Act. Of course, this question should not simply be deleted temporarily, in general, by such a list of people. Believe me, the Constitutional Court case on the constitutionality of this law has been considered today. There's a lot of questions. I want to report that by 1 April, about 2 million people are preparing to complete the declaration. Today, I specifically received information from the left bank of Cherkaščina, where people take their deputies by bus to receive an electronic key, carry their brigades and constructions, and they come and write their notices of dismissal. That is what we have put this law into effect in such a way that we have in fact condemned people to the humiliation of the honour and dignity of the citizens. Moreover, it provides for the introduction of family members into the rights of citizens. So, what would I ask? Of course, we support the change proposed, which will be the nineteenth amendment to the Act. And I ask you to consider further the matter, if you will not object, and against others. Look, Miniust from the National Agency has provided for all the leaders, including the brigade. What danger to national security does the Brigadier pose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u116	From Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. Colleagues, there will be a decision-making process in two minutes. I ask everyone to attend the Hall and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u117	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Dear friends! We need to read the bill to understand what it's about. We're all talking about, we want this bill to release the category from completing the declarations. The law states otherwise in article 1. With this bill, the drafter of the bill wants to exempt persons from the Act on the Prevention of Corruption. If you want to relieve them of filling out declarations, you need to make changes, not to 1 article, but to article 5. 45th of this law, part of the fifth article 45 to this law, which defines the list of persons released from the application of declarations. We therefore find it unacceptable, whether in war or not, not to be subject to the Anti-Corruption Act, because we know that some return from war, bring themselves to the villages of the BTR, tanks, vending machines, or sell non-quality helmets and, there, weapons. I think it's only with this amendment to make changes to the 5th article, where it's not an electronic declaration, it's not an exemption from the Anti-Corruption Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u118	Thank you. I'm stressing that the committee's decision is just on the basis and that's how it's going to be set up, it's going to be able to change. And, colleagues, I see a lot of hands, I have one big request for you, and we still have the determination that Ola the Mantis asked for, it stands next. Let's take very short now, literally 30 seconds, colleagues. And I'm asking you very briefly, just one minute, Yuri Lewchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u119	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It was quite right for the speakers first to say that it was illogical for the boys who were protecting us in the trenches to have to look for electronic keys and submit declarations. That was quite right. The only problem is that this law applies in a completely different way. Because the application of a declaration is not an obligation for all military personnel but only for officials, that is, those who hold official posts associated with the performance of organizational and administrative or administrative duties or who are specially authorized to perform such duties under legislation and so on. They say it's only for people who are in a combat zone, that is, it's going to apply to everyone. As has already been said, this is not just about declarations, it is about too much regret, but about all anticorruption legislation. So I have a proposal, the honourable chairman, the honourable reporters, that if you want the law to go through in the first reading, read from the first reading under the transcript, that it should apply exclusively to the declarations of the people who are in the zone of combat. Everything and then he'll go through in the first reading is logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u120	Colleagues, so 30 seconds, Paul Kishkar. 30 seconds, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u121	I'm going to explain, maybe more to Jura Lewchenk, that the category of people mentioned is actually students, soldiers and people who can't really be touched by any corruption. I can assure you that as a person who's been through both the student life and the officer's, and was in a junior officer's warehouse, so it's impossible just the apiorium. The only interest, of course, is that other bills that define military service as a special type of public service should be considered in this room, particularly the issue of genetic identification, which was first read and await consideration in the second reading in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u122	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, Arthur Gerasimov, do you need 30 seconds? Please, for 30 seconds, Arthur Herasimov and let's move on to the decision, please, everyone, please come into the hall and invite all the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u123	Dear colleagues! Please support this bill on the basis of a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading, taking into account that the committee has decided that a working group will be set up to not only amend article 3 of the Anti-Corruption Act. And also to part five of article 45 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u124	So, dear colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, I ask everyone to take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (No. 6172) for the proposal of a committee on a basis, a colleague, just as a basis. All suggestions can be made in preparation for the second reading. Please support 6172 as a base. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, with the amendment that Gerasimov made under the transcript. with the amendment that Herasim made under the transcript. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:53:03]] For 239. And now, colleagues, considering a reduced procedure for second reading is very important. Colleagues, please take up jobs and make a proposal for a second reading on a reduced procedure. Colleagues, very carefully on April 1st last term, please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[17:53:40]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, the decision is made first. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. Colleagues, I very much ask you to remain in our seats the following is an orderly draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Sustainable Pharmaceutical Policy." (5601). I very much ask you, colleagues, this will be a very short question, please support and now I'm putting to the vote the motion to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:54:23]] For-200 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, Ukraine has always been a very powerful producer of medicine. And now there are 110 companies in Ukraine that are actually manufacturing medical supplies, but Ukraine is buying more than 70 percent of medicines abroad. We think that one of our priorities is to create jobs in Ukraine, and that's possible. And the health sector can develop not only for the benefit of the Ukrainians but for the benefit of the entire nation, creating new jobs in the pharmaceutical sector, where the average wage today is 10,000 dollars. That is why we ask you, on behalf of the Health Committee, to support the holding of parliamentary hearings on the development of pharmaceutical policy in Ukraine. But please note that the draft Order proposes to hold parliamentary hearings on April 19th. But in view of the fact that the two weeks after Easter will be unplenary according to the calendar schedule, please change the date of parliamentary hearings to May 24. And I would like to support and accept the draft Decree (registration number 5601) with the sound correction on the basis and in general. Parliamentary hearings will allow us to form national policies and support a national producer in order not only to receive quality medicines at the right time, but also to make our industry, including the budget-forming sector, a pharmaceutical sector. And thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Ola. Dear colleagues, this is only support for parliamentary hearings, professional conversation. Is there a need to talk? Please, Papiev Mikhailo. Turn it on, one minute, microphone, one minute. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u127	Mr. Chairman, I would ask you not to change the Rules because the Rules provide for two minutes. And I ask you to pass the word to Shurma, the national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u128	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I think we must support today's draft decision to hold these parliamentary hearings, namely on rational pharmaceutical policy and on providing the population with effective, safe and affordable medical facilities. This has to do with billions of dollars being allocated each year. Thanks to the coalition’s vote in favour of the Law on the Transfer of Procurement to International Organizations, for a simplified registration procedure, these funds are now being spent abroad. A letter of responsibility to the minister is a testimony. In 2016, when drugs were not purchased at all, 4 billion were exported abroad. Today we need to support the national producer, not everything today is decided by the transfer of money abroad and the receipt.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u129	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u130	And getting drugs abroad. We're very sorry that in November 2016 three billion 800 million dollars were transferred to Bank of America, and so far they're there. This is the signature of the acting deputy minister. Another 4 billion is planned this year, another 6 billion in 2017. What's interesting is that international organizations are also buying these drugs in our domestic group companies. That's why these parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u131	Mr. Igor, I've given you 30 seconds. Give me 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u132	Therefore, these parliamentary hearings should be an opportunity to speak to people working in the pharmaceutical industry and to raise questions about the priority of financing and supporting our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, especially those who support: Six o'clock, now the MPs will just walk out. And my request to speak in a concise manner is that we be able to make a decision. Please, colleagues, first of all, don't leave, just wait a few minutes. From the Radical Party, one minute, Igor Mosiyczuk. Then one minute from Self-Help. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u134	The Radical Party faction will support this draft decision. But first of all, we would like to pay attention to something else. We demand that the government fulfill its promise to introduce free medicine for pensioners. We demand that people be given free heart medication, headaches. The pharmacies enter, as in the museum, our pensioners, so the government must live up to its promise. The other one. We demand the responsibility of the pharmaceutical mafia, because in fact, the pensioner buys drugs for the last cents, and there's chalk, not medicine. And the third. We demand that those who profit from the most disadvantaged be held accountable — pensioners. In my native Poltavska, in the enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u135	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u136	Now the National Police have a criminal case, they've been investigating, they've stolen 40 million from insulin, they've purchased prosthetics, and so forth. He runs this company from the simplest Social Democratic Party of Kaplin and his deputy Prudko. These people must be criminally responsible and criminally responsible!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u137	Thank you. Colleagues, the closing statement from Self-Help is Irina Sisoyenko. In a minute, we'll move on to the vote. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. But in a minute, we'll go to the vote. And this will be our last vote for today. Please stay in the hall. And please, Mrs. Irina. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u138	Dear colleagues! Parliamentary hearings, that's good. And the self-help faction will vote in favour of them. But that's not enough. At the beginning of 2017, the prime minister of Ukraine promised to reimburse 500 million dollars for the entire Ukraine. I'll explain what reimbursation is. This is the full or partial cost of medical supplies. And this 500 million is in the government budget. But it's already March of the month, and there's no mechanism for this mechanism to be implemented so that every person can get every single penny, each bracelet of this 500 million as a medicine to treat hypertension, sugar diabetes, asthma. So we demand that this government mechanism be created as quickly as possible, that the Cabinet of Ministers be determined and that the situation be resolved. The second important question. In our country, except for the high cost of medical supplies, it is also very low.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u139	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u140	the low level of income of citizens of our state, which makes it impossible to buy the necessary medicines. And unfortunately, with parliamentary hearings, we will not solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "The rational pharmaceutical policy and the provision of effective, safe and accessible medical facilities" with this amendment on the date that the head of the Committee, Olya Bogomołec, announced in her report. I'd like to support you on a general basis as well, colleagues. Let's unite, let's support the Health Committee. Please vote 5601 as a whole. Vote. [[6:03:23]] For 207 207, colleagues. I'll be back in a minute. Please, who hasn't been to work, please take up jobs. Colleagues, please take your seats. I'll put you back to the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft regulation 5601. Colleagues, I'm asking for all your support, all of you in the hall, to settle down. Please vote in favour of the return to draft Decree 5601. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[18:04:27]] For 212 Colleagues, if there's no voter decision, it's an organizational question, we can ask it any other day, an organizational question. Fellows, I'm going to ask you again, if there are no votes, we're going to put the question down. Please, colleagues, let's focus again. I bid to return to draft Decree 5601 on parliamentary hearings. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues, please support. [[18:05:20]] For 211 There's no support in the hall. Evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I'm sorry. I'm asking for an ad.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u142	Dear colleagues! I have an important announcement. According to the application and in accordance with the part of the third article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the entry of the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Buglak as part of the party's "Block of Petra Poroshenko" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-03-14-m1.u143	The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Today was a difficult day, a difficult day, but we were able to make extremely important decisions. I especially welcome our great progress on the issue of local self - government. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work, and tomorrow at 10 o'clock I'll invite everyone into the hall to continue our work.
