ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Good morning! I'm asking you to take up jobs, get ready for registration. Are you ready to register? Please take up jobs. I'd like you to sign up. Please register. [[10:03:59]] 316 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, May 26 is Georgia's Independence Day. That day, in 1918, the Georgian Government declared the country independent. On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I welcome the fraternal people! In their time, they defended their nation against the Russian aggressor. And when there was aggression against us, they became shoulder to shoulder with us in the fight against the Russian aggressor. Ukraine will never forget that. Your holiday is our holiday. We will defeat the enemy together. The glory of Georgia! Glory to Ukraine! Welcome! [[Applause]] By the way, we are starting a visit to Georgia today to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And I'm going to visit Brother Georgia on Monday. My colleagues, I also want to report that yesterday we removed all obstacles to signing very important laws. Despite the hysteria of those with Ukrainian bone in their throats and attempts to block the Ukrainian Language Act on Ukrainian TV, this Parliament has demonstrated that we are the Ukrainian Parliament. And today I am signing a law that provides for a mandatory part of Ukrainian on national televisions of 75 percent. Because this law is another step in defending our national space and our language. Now in wartime, it's a matter of national security. As I promised yesterday, I am signing the law without delay. [[Applause]] The law is signed. I am also signing the Law on the Prohibition of the So-called George Tape -- symbols of hatred and hostility. For these ribbons are worn by men, those who have waged war against Ukraine, those who daily shoot our soldiers, those who kill peaceful people, and those who hate Ukraine. And this law is one of the most important laws of the week. And I also now have the right to sign it, and I do it in the presence of all the national MPs. The law is signed, colleagues. [[Applause]] Friday we have an hour of questions to the government. I would like to report that in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the government are taking the lead with Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. Hello. [[Applause]] All the factions applauded, that's good. And we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And I remind you, we have 30 minutes of response from ministers to written requests from factions, and then 30 minutes from the national MPs. Today, the meeting of the factions and groups will be chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze – within 15 minutes and Justice Minister Pavel Dmitrovitch Petrenko – within 15 minutes. And I invite you to the rostrum of Vice Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic integration Ivanna Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze. Please miss the Deputy Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u2	Oh, maybe there's a presentation there. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I am very happy to be able to inform us today about our progress on the path of European integration. And obviously, I would like to begin by saying that the common experience of implementing the visa-free liberalisation plan is, above all, an experience of unifying all for one single purpose. And the decision taken by the European Union, the European Council of May 11th, does not indicate that we have made specific institutional legislative and financial arrangements, but it shows that we have all united our efforts. In each organization, every institution in its place would have had carefree professionals, there were professionals who had ensured the fulfilment of all 144 criteria that Ukraine had taken on. And today we have 36 European countries in which Ukrainians can drive without a biometric passport. I think this suggests that, with every reform and adaptation to the national legislation of any act of the European Union, we are getting closer to achieving the objectives of the Association Agreement. And the results of implementing the Association Agreement, they have and can be much more powerful than what we have been able to achieve together in the implementation of the Visa Liberalization Action Plan. At the moment, we have already taken serious steps and steps with you to bring Ukraine closer to the EU. If you'd like the next slide. And you and I have really taken on a great and high rate of cooperation and Ukraine's approach to the European Union, in particular, we have shared with you the creation of a system of new anti-corruption bodies, and it is clear that the further implementation of legislation that we have adopted together in 2016 is extremely important in terms of the implementation of judicial reform in Ukraine. The application of the free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union also began to bear fruit. We've had a shift in tariff regulation issues, including phase-down mechanisms for both sides and the administration of the origin of goods and tariff quotas. As a result of 2016, the European Union has indeed become Ukraine's largest trading partner, and the EU's share in exports of goods from Ukraine has been 37.1 per cent and 43.7 per cent in imports. The EU market has gradually started to emerge or at least show interest, to emerge new companies that had not previously been exported to the European Union at all. And I would like to remind you that Ukraine was successful last year in obtaining permission to export most animal products to the EU, and in particular, we have also opened up a European dairy market. On May 24, Lisbon adopted the United Energy System Agreement, the United Ukraine, the ENSO, and the official bilateral signing we expect to take place now, in June 2017. And the implementation of this agreement will be a starting point for the integration of Ukraine’s United Energy System into the European Union of Systemic Power Transmission Operators. We have intensified economic and sectoral cooperation with you, including the introduction of Ukrainian legislation and practices in line with European standards. I will not focus on specific examples, for this time is not enough to cover them all. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have carried out a systematic and thorough analysis from the point of view of problems in the implementation of the agreement. And we have prepared in the government a new integrated order that will ensure continuity, planning for the implementation of the agreement, and the availability of information for the implementation of the agreement and proper monitoring and evaluation by the government office, the effectiveness of the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Obviously we expect the Netherlands Senate to finally ratify the treaty by 31 May 2017 and we will apply it fully. So I want to introduce you to the plan of how we see the further implementation of the agreement. And here we are very much counting on cooperation with Parliament. The previous stages of planning indicate the need for a truly flexible arrangement to be put in place. And in this mechanism, we have to include with you an update of the list of acts that are subject to implementation, a decision to take into account the bilateral bodies that are taken into account by the evaluation of the implementation of the agreement. And the objective need is to update the tasks we have to carry out the agreement. We did it. the next slide, please, we have been able to improve the structure of the government office from European, Euro-Atlantic integration, precisely taking into account the experience of those countries that have already gone this way. Poland is the closest in this context to us, so we have taken a sectoral approach to building the Office and implemented it in practice. At present, together with the EU experts, we continue to work towards strengthening the coordinating role of the government office and enhancing the capacity of the ministries themselves and other central executive bodies, particularly their Euro-Integration Units, to carry out the tasks that lie ahead of us. For the purpose of replacing this labour force, bureaucratic and fragmented system of coordination of the implementation of the agreement that exists today, we propose to ensure the operation of a single comprehensive information and analysis system, the so-called pulse agreement, which will open up information on the status, the time frame for the implementation and implementation of the agreement, the translation of assets of European Union legislation into Ukrainian, and the assessment of the performance of the agreement. We in the government need to ensure the predictability of our policy regarding the implementation of the agreement and the interaction with Parliament. And that's why we think that this strategic plan of priorities by 2020 and the new detailed plan of action will ensure and we look forward to working with Parliament in this context. But, at the same time, I would like to stress that the Supreme Council of Ukraine also needs to create conditions to be able to implement the treaty and minimize the number of parliamentary initiatives instead of government initiatives in the context of the implementation of the Association Agreement. With regard to communication, without proper implementation and clarification of the requirements of EU law, it will not be possible to break Soviet thinking when assessing Euro-integration projects. And we must acknowledge with you that the European Union should not constantly push us and push us to fulfill our obligations. We ourselves must actively move on the chosen path. Another common feature of the work of the government office and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is the new order of translation into the Ukrainian language of acts of the European Union. Unfortunately, we have made it clear that during all these years there has been a lot of effort and attempts to translate, and a normal, well-established order of translations does not exist in the State. That's why we've proposed, developed a mechanism that will ensure that annual plans for the translation of EU acts are made by the government office. The terminology will then be followed by an expert, final translation, approval and publication of such acts of European Union law. According to the recommendations of European and national experts, we need to make changes to the Rules as the Cabinet of Ministers, which the Cabinet of Ministers is working on, but also to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this connection, it is worth noting that the work of representatives of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers on drafting a bill on the principles of State policy in the field of European integration is ongoing today. And he is called upon to remove a series of conceptual and procedural challenges in the way of improving the adaptation mechanism. At the same time, we already have an opportunity with you today to remove some obstacles that slow down the implementation of the Association Agreement. And the most pressing problems that need an operational solution are the adoption of legislation here in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, which would necessarily be in line with European Union law. We continue to have a problem of bureaucraticity and inefficiency in the legislative process. Unfortunately, we are actively involved in the conflict of various interest groups in the adoption of these bills. And we have a problem with the lack of qualified workers. To do this, you and I need to strengthen the institutional capacity of the public authorities involved in this process. And it is necessary, as I said, to change regulations, both for Kabminu and for the Supreme Council, and to create the necessary methodological support. In order to optimize these procedures, it would be appropriate to improve planning, have clear priorities, provide general guidance for the implementation of an analysis of the EU's law and strengthen the role of the concept of public policies and introduce a legislative basis for certified translation. The procedure for drafting the bills at this time, set by Kabmin, is flexible and provides a general description of the order of development. And in the area of integration into the EU, we can also count on technical projects, technical assistance projects, and in this case, the relationship between the executive and the central executive authority is defined in a technical task, and the central executive body can always change the bill before it is submitted to the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, though, this stage is not applicable to those bills passed by the Ukrainian National Deputies. For the time being, after all the discussions and before the drafts were sent to Kabmin, the developer is obliged to conduct a wide-ranging preliminary review of the EU law. This includes defining the European Union's legislation that regulates the relevant relations, as well as the definition of Ukraine's current obligations in relation to these relations, the definition of the programming documents on European integration in this area, and the implementation of a legal comparative analysis. However, if there is a need for justification, if such differences are between the EU's right and the proposed bill, such a justification is essential. This functional step is, unfortunately, not applied to the bills that are being considered for the initiative of the Ukrainian people’s deputies. So today, it seems to me that politicians are not paying enough attention to the implementation of the Association Agreement, and that is why we need to work with you on a more constructive and close cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council to achieve and achieve this goal. In our view and in the opinion of European experts, all the issues identified need to be addressed and resolved immediately. And it is necessary to strengthen the role of the government office, to strengthen the supervisory role of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, to strengthen the capacity of the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to analyse the conformity of EU law, to involve the committees of the Supreme Council at the initial stages of the drafting of legislation, bills, to filter out bills that directly conflict with EU law at the stage of their registration in the Supreme Council. Trace the movement of Euro-Integration Bills and implement a rapid response to non-compliance. The implementation of the Association Agreement at the right level depends directly on the timely adoption of the package of European integration laws. Together with the Government Office of European, Euro-Atlantic Integration, we have developed a list and prepared a technical expertise on priority drafts in the field of European integration that are already under consideration in the Supreme Council. And so far, the bill numbers are on the slide, but the priority for adoption is legislation in such areas as ecology, anti-discrimination, statistics, energy efficiency, energy, trade and taxation. Furthermore, our main priorities for the 17th year remain to agree with the European Union on road maps for the full opening of EU markets in the areas of IT, telecommunications, financial services, international maritime transport, which will become part of the Association Agreement. Compilation of an agreement on the conformity of industrial links that will open the EU market for the types of goods that will be included.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u3	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u4	This will open the EU market to the types of goods that will be included in this agreement. So far it's about electric cables, low-volt equipment that works under pressure. Implementation of commitments regarding the free trade zone and the EU in the field of implementation of adopted legislation, and we thank you for the legislation adopted on the safety and quality of food. And also work on approval in the Supreme Council of European Integration Laws. Colleagues, European integration is a way of forcing us all to work together to discover opportunities directly for our citizens, it's a real powerful tool of transformation. And sooner or later, we're gonna have to report, and no one's gonna know who's to blame, whether it's the Cabinet of Ministers or the Supreme Council of Ukraine or anyone else. The pace of European integration, our shared commitment to these principles and values, also depends on our support from the countries of the European Union, our partners in Europe. Or you and I will open up green light for Euro-integration laws, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u5	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u6	Or the green light of Euro-integration laws, or the future of Ukraine, you and I will put red light together. I don't think we're interested in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u7	Thank you. Mr Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! I want to start by saying that, in fact, Euro-integration, visa-free treatment is not just a plan of action that consisted of a few hundred points there -- it's a capital overhaul and a change in Ukrainian principles and rules that have created problems for Ukrainian citizens over the last 25 years. One of the fundamental innovations of the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament over the past three years is the process of decentralization and transfer of authority to local communities. The government of Arsenija Yatsenuk and the government of Vladimir Groysman is pursuing a consistent policy of strengthening Ukrainian communities by transferring powers, finances, and opportunities to the field. And we can see, despite the many criticisms of the populists, the real results. This is also an increase in budgets, such as the construction of new schools, roads, the provision of suitable facilities for a small village, a village, or a large city. The Ministry of Justice in this area has likewise taken a systemic position. And I want to thank the Ukrainian MPs who have taken very many necessary changes in the transfer of authority in the area of business registration and real estate to the place. This reform began in 2015. This reform applies to millions of Ukrainians. I want to inform you now about the results we have in a year and a half of this reform. Yes, to date the business and real estate registration function has received 1,000 333 local communities. Together with the functions, these communities received nearly 2 billion dollars of income from local budgets. But basically, Ukrainian citizens were given the opportunity without queues, without bureaucracy to use the service for business registration, registration, real estate, receipt of statements, and help. What used to be a big problem and big domestic corruption. We've given the same opportunity to Ukrainians through the Ministry of Justice online services to get these services at all without contact with the bureaucrat. And in the past year alone, the Ministry of Justice's online services, namely: company registration, FOP registration, FOP liquidation, registration of all registration information, online registration at RAGS, if you want to get a marriage registration service and almost twenty other online services, Ukrainian citizens have benefited over 60 million times! More than a million services were designed on a pay basis. This suggests that Ukrainians want and use comfortable European services that do not create problems and obstacles for them. Very clear figures. In 2015-2016 alone, 23,000 Ukrainian couples used our online marriage registration and online documents. We've also introduced a service like getting an e-stilt. It's a simple problem that so many Ukrainian parents had when they went abroad with their children, when they sent their children to school or for recreation, they had to go to Kiev on a special basis, take turns asking the bureaucrat to put them on a document that shows, for example, the birth or education of a child. We've introduced an e-mail system when you can make an order in your little town to get this buttilla over the Internet when you don't have to go to Kiev when you don't have to look for a middleman and pay bribes. And in the past year alone, 201 thousand Ukrainian citizens took advantage of this service and received a European service from the State. We did the same, despite the high number of criticisms by certain conservatives and bureaucrats, we introduced the "Marriage in the Age" project. In Ukraine, now in 35 cities, local communities, city heads are creating conditions for providing such a pleasant service to Ukrainian youths as marriage, single marriage, a free marriage, a free marriage, a free marriage when you need to get married, and a good marriage for free Ukrainian citizens who have made such a decision. 8.5 thousand Ukrainian couples benefited from this service. And now they are the symbols of quality service in each of the cities of the "Goto", the "Arena" stadium in Lviv, the beautiful palace of festivities in Odessa, the appropriate centres for providing such services in frontal cities, where we give the Ukrainians the opportunity to obtain Ukrainian documents. And it's a very nice statistic: over the past year and a half of this pilot project, out of 8.5 thousand couples, only 0.3 percent split up, a few couples of young people who took advantage of this service got divorced, that's ten times less than the total divorce statistics in the country. And that's the response of Ukrainians to those false predictions of experts who said that Ukrainians who get married quickly do it recklessly and then get divorced. We are, the Ukrainian people, a very wise, European people, and we demand that a comfortable environment be created for a free person in Ukraine. So we've created another service, and I want to thank all of the Ukrainian Parliament's deputies who were involved in adopting these laws, this is getting birth certificates, the first document of a Ukrainian citizen without bureaucracy. As it used to be. Earlier, parents, fathers, or mothers had to run to this RAGS for 30 days after the baby was born, find a suitable specialist, take turns, run into this RAGS for a couple of weeks, carry help to get a birth certificate. And if they didn't make it, they paid a fine for it. We've entered an appropriate service. And this is an initiative of the previous government, which is supported by a valid government. And this has already become a national birth certificate project in the maternity home. Today's 474 maternity homes throughout the country provide such services when you can submit a document on the birthday of a child or the next day and within 24 hours get the first document of a Ukrainian citizen without any bureaucracy. I want to thank our colleagues from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Social Policy. Now this service gets additional actual options. Now we're in maternity homes and we're doing birth control to a child, and now online service is giving you government help on your payment card. In fact, it is a service that simplifies life and compliments our parents who have given birth. Over the past year alone, 150,000 Ukrainian babies received documents of European standards without a red tape, without bureaucracy. This is almost 40 percent of all newborns. And I call on Ukrainian parents, love, give birth and use our services, and the Ministry of Justice will take care of the documents. End of moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian government has submitted to Parliament a second packet of decentralised ones. the decentralization laws of the Ministry of Justice at number 6150. Under this package of laws, we want to complete the decentralization of the services provided by the Ministry of Justice and hand over the authority for birth registration, marriage, change of surname to local communities. Local communities that are closest to every Ukrainian. Local communities that will provide the most quality service. Local communities that receive funds from this service to their local budget — the budgets of Ukrainians who live in a particular village, village, city, or united community. The Ministry of Justice actually completes the transfer of all functions that do not belong to a state that has a commercial component to local communities. And I very much ask all those national MPs who have been involved and are involved in the decentralization reform during these three years, support this bill so that from autumn on, our local communities, our rural and urban heads will provide quality services at birth, at the time of the registration of marriage to every Ukrainian who lives in this community. This is our common goal with you, which actually completes the service decentralization system throughout the country, and this is the restoration of historical justice. Because it is the local community that has always been the most comfortable municipality in Ukraine. The Ukrainian cities were among the first in Europe to join those freedoms to receive local self - rule. Ukrainian cities and Ukrainian communities are now effectively restoring their powers, which have also been seized by the Soviet regime, and have been strained by central authority for the past 25 years. And our joint plan with you is a strong community, it's a strong local self-government, it's a responsible city head and village head. And these are high-quality services for every Ukrainian, starting with the birth of a passport, the registration of a place of residence, the registration of a business, and actually all those services where the state should actually be an assistant to a Ukrainian, not an obstacle. Ukrainians are very wise people, Ukrainians appreciate every change that makes them comfortable. Especially after 25 years of bureaucracy and problems created by government officials, it is now very acute. I'll give you the numbers again. Nearly 40 percent of Ukrainian families who gave birth benefited from the quality of their birth certificate through maternity homes. Over a million Ukrainians have received Internet services on online business registration, real estate and services that were the most problematic, and 60 million times Ukrainians have benefited from our online services. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue to integrate, changing our country inside, creating comfortable European conditions for every Ukrainian. The principle of any European country is when a person is the highest value, his rights and freedom. We are now restoring historical justice, we are rebuilding, re-establishing the country, when man, his rights and freedoms are the greatest value. I can testify that the government of Vladimir Groysman has prioritized those tasks that relate to decentralization, those tasks that relate to providing free legal aid to millions of Ukrainians. And the Ministry of Justice, our team, will perform these tasks, and that will be felt by millions of people. Please support those initiatives that affect millions of people, and we will indeed receive thanks from every Ukrainian. Thank you very much. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u9	Thank you, Minister. And I'd like to ask the National MPs to prepare for the government's enrollment. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u10	Thank you. God is on our side. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kiev. Well, first of all, I want to thank you and your Minister Reva for reacting very quickly and raising the social standard from 48 square meters per gas to 75, to my appeal to the singles of one and two people who live alone. That's why it's a thank you. But my second question is not very good. If you take the Kyiv region, it's probably the worst decentralisation. Now, I have two communities that have long submitted documents, Steblivska in Preyyaslav Hmielnicki and Virginie, who have submitted documents for the decision to be taken by these territorial communities. But they have the Kyiv district, the deputy governor writes the following answer. "We've made a priority plan in our offices, and so go, you know where, there won't be any communities in you. "
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u11	I ask MPs to invest in time because time is expensive. Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u12	So I ask you to intervene personally in this situation. Because it turns out that the communities themselves have decided how to unite, and the officials in the offices say that we are the main people, not the people in the cities, but we are in the offices.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u14	Thank you, thank you, thank you, Your Honourable People's Deputies. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, thank you for your questions. In fact, the goal of decentralization is to create capable communities. I was just in the morning in this town of Brovary Kyiv district at the last bell. I welcomed the graduates, the teachers, the children. The budget for decentralization is 300 million dollars. In the process of decentralization, one billion now. There's a problem with a sharp school, the mayor says he's already starting to build a school in the town of Barovara for the appropriate, well, changes in the situation in the education field and a lot of other things. So language is going to create capable communities. I know that there are problems with decentralization and unification in Kiev. So I'm going to have to assign Minregion to Prime Minister Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka to bring together the representatives of Kyiv and discuss this issue, to make a system-wide decision. I emphasize that no one has the right, no official, to stop the process of decentralization because it has already proved its effectiveness. But on the other hand, I would like to emphasize that such a union should aim to make these communities capable. Wealthy means normal health care, quality care; preschool education to be accessible to kindergartens; schools, infrastructure and so on. And that's the result of decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vitali Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u17	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Awakov. Arsen Borisovich, we all saw yesterday the most extensive operation to detain former members of the DFS of Janukovic's time, led by Klimenko, who robbed the entire country. They were seen taking them all to Kiev as they went to court, and they saw this disgrace all over Ukraine when judges were releasing these former bribes at night. Please tell me, what are the prospects for this matter? Because the People's Front was also the initiator of judicial reform, and we've demanded that we fundamentally replace all the judges in Ukraine because we see their sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u18	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u19	I can't comment on the quality of our court as a suitable person, but I would like to say that we have now considered practically all the precautions to detained fiscal officials, former officials. And we don't have that much right now: we have about 350 million bets, and 7 people are now under arrest, a few people who have a court decision about personal commitment and minor pledges. So we're going to make a decision with the D.A.'s office, and we're going to appeal. At the same time, I want to tell you again what. What are we talking about? This is about 96 billion dollars that were removed from the State budget from 11 to 13 years, and I'll say that this is larger than the budget. Double the budget of the Ministry of Defence is twice the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, much more than the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. That's why I think we can't be so superior to what the court is making, and the reform of the court is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u20	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Olga Belkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I recently had the opportunity to go to the region of Ivano-Frankiv. You are greeted and grateful that I have been supported by a number of deputies who have taken the initiative for the so - called 5 percent rent on the spot. They thank us, and they are very concerned that, God forbid, someone might pause this initiative. Well, I convinced them that you're on it and you're supporting us. At the same time, she had the opportunity to be in the production capacity of the Scrooge. Volodymyr Borisovich, if you don't get involved in this business issue, we're all going to be witnesses of how this enterprise will actually collapse. I've been to all the production there moments that I've been shown are pure, but poor. Because today they have such debts to the state, and accordingly they have outstanding debts to the state before them, that they themselves will not come out of this crisis. I think you need to get a group together and decide whether it's a sanity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u22	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u23	Or dopemysia. You have to offer us a way out of a situation we can support. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u24	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u25	Thank you. Well, first of all, the fact that part of the rent will be counted into the local budgets of all levels in the area where these fossils are mined is absolutely the right approach, so logically linked to decentralization in the country and creating, creating normal financial bases for local self-government. That's why we're going to support it. 18 years and that's why it was defined as the beginning of such a redistribution so as not to disrupt the budget balance of 17 years, and we remember that with you. It's about Crumbs. You know, such stories with a huge history of years now on the side of parliament, government, ours with you have fallen out very, very, very much. And they all need attention and systemic change. So when we propose a day-to-day reform: health care, pension reform, governance of state companies, privatization and so on, that's all that's going to make it possible to solve these problems at a systemic level. As far as Crusher Oil is concerned, as you know, the Supervisory Board has recently been amended. Right before the board of supervisors is the question of getting out of a state of difficulty where there's Skrnaft, this enterprise. So we're expecting a new supervisory board of systemic supply, systemic, and I'm stressing how to get the company out of that state. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u26	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u27	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! At Yanukovich, the oligarchys of Firtash and his associates Ljovczyn and Boyko received free gas distribution networks, which were built at the expense of the state budget, at the expense of the peasants. They use them for free, making billions at the expense of the Ukrainians who put them in their pockets. Recently, they tried to get a subscription for gas counters to make people pay again in the pocket of the oligarchs. I have a question for you, Mr. Prime Minister, when will you make the oligarchs stop robbing people? When you cancel the government's decision and return the government's gas distribution networks to make them work for the Ukrainians, so that the Ukrainians don't get robbed through space tariffs, and the money goes into the pockets of the oligarchs as a result of the lack of power. I demand of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u28	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, Your Honor, for asking. Well, first of all. You know that the government has decidedly opposed the imposition of a subscription as an unfair payment for gas. And we immediately expressed that position. When we saw that these calculations offered by the independent commission were unfair, we immediately expressed our position, and in Parliament it sounded, and this situation was resolved. As far as networking is concerned. So there are two solutions here, including one systemic. These are changes to the law that allow you to ban the free use of these networks and this is very important. Now the working group, including the MPs, is working to make this law, Victoria Vojcecka confirms that we should draft this law, and we needed the support of the Ukrainian Parliament to vote on it. And your petitions are at work in the First Vice Prime Minister. Unfortunately, he's not here right now. But next week he will comment on the state of the matter today, and what decisions need to be taken, including the parliament, to bring the matter in order. This problem did not arise today, nor did it arise yesterday, for decades. And I'm stressing that of those networks, especially distributions, within communities, these many networks belong to the local authorities, and they've been passed on there by laws, including, well, private operators, and that's wrong. I'm convincing you that this should be, first of all, on a paid basis. Secondly, these networks need to be invested to keep them safe. And thirdly, this is not going to lead to any increase in the cost of transporting gas. These are the three goals we set for ourselves. We will inform you further, First Deputy Prime Minister, about the work of the group. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u29	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u30	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party, New Forces Movement. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, do you know of a corruption affair that threatens the national security and defence of Ukraine, as well as the lives of all our military personnel who are now in the war zone and will be in the war zone, which is linked to the purchase of military defence equipment from the Ministry of Defence, which is linked to the purchase of equipment from the Turkish company Aselsan, which was purchased at the price of the best world samples of the company Elbit of Israel, which sells in more than 10 countries of the world, NATO, the United Kingdom of England and Germany. When there are parts, namely the chief of the army. Volodymyr Rapko has acquired this equipment without proper testing and is now seeking to purchase the next $350 million worth of equipment. Are you being tested for such a relationship? Did you know that it was in Nagorny Karabas that this Turkish connection was suppressed by Russian military forces and was completely destroyed?Oh, my God! This is a huge threat.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u32	Thank you so much for your question. Well, first of all, if I were to know about corruption, I would immediately report it to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And that's an incontrovertible question. With regard to the means of communication for the Ukrainian army. I don’t want to be the one who makes the decision about how the Ukrainian army should be connected. I want this relationship to be quality so that it is reliable, safe, and accordingly competitive. So I have letters from both the Turkish side and the Israeli side that they're concerned about the model selection process that's going to be applied. I appealed to the Minister of Defense with one request and the only request that an objective contest be held, he cannot be opened because there are probably limits. The competition is equally valid, allowing experts to determine the relationship between reliable, safe, and less expensive. And it can't be suppressed by any country, including the aggressor country. So in this case, here's a question for the Ministry of Defense. As the Secretary of Defense assured me, they will write these criteria, and they will conduct them in such a way, and they will conduct this competition under such principles. I see a lot of speculation around this topic, which is not surprising. And I would like the Ukrainian military to get the best of everything, not just from the link, but also from the quality tank, the quality of the weapon, the quality of the technology. So that he can be provided and given one place at a Russian aggressor, and push him out of our country's borders. Thank you. Or take them out of the territory of our state with a "load of 200." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u33	Welcome to the speech of the national deputy, Igor Goose. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u34	Good afternoon. Igor Goose, Volin. Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to thank you for the first time in three years that the President of the country has visited Volin. I asked and asked, I think you'll be here soon too. But my question and my request in the next. The president, while on Volina, stated that he would cover up a foreign registration scheme for the import of cars into Ukraine. You know, there's been a rally, my colleagues here have introduced laws of a different nature. I want to ask you. Take this subject under your control. I realize that there are abuses, there are different moments, but I have 150,000 voters, 1 out of every 3 or 1 out of 3 connected to the border, with a car on foreign registration, and so on. They work hard to earn a penny out of a bad life. I'm asking you to take a look at how you can normally solve this issue -- cars on foreign registration. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u35	Thank you very much. I know there's a working group on the basis of the Tax and Customs Committee. We are ready to add our positions on this subject and share in the race. I met with the owners myself three or four months ago. The question is ambiguous, and I would like to ask that you and I show leadership positions here that will allow us to preserve, including state interest. We need to work out, we need to have a dialogue, we need to find a way out of this situation, I agree, but we need to be very, very balanced here. We are ready as a government to join this committee-based process, because this can only be done if proposals can be made in agreement, agreed, stressed, changes to Ukrainian legislation. I will definitely visit Volin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u37	Igor Shurma, "The Opposition Block." Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! I have a question for you. On May 23, the annual Assembly of the World Health Organization voted in favour of the election of the new director - general of WHO. According to the official representatives of these organizations, Ukraine was denied voting rights because of its 2014 - 2016 membership debt of $26 million. I would like to remind you that 190 countries in the world had the right to vote, and Ukraine in Somalia, the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, the Central African Republic did not have the right to vote. What was the reason for the debt? And why didn't they pay those membership fees? That's the first question. And the second question. When is the government going to be full? The year is almost a temporary minister’s responsibility. You actively support all the initiatives that come out of the Ministry of Health. Tell me, please, what did Ulyana Suprun do to you that you're not putting her in the hall? Well, put her in the hall, let the people determine, if not her, another candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. My present debt was confirmed by the responsibility of the minister of health. Do you know what this is caused by? It's a banal thing. That in 2014, there were 108 thousand dollars, 108 thousand dollars, at the expense of the entire country. Imagine the challenges facing the government that led Yatsenuk in 2014-2015. And maybe these questions went the other way, 20 to 30 million dollars. Twenty-six million dollars. So they went to the secondary. But the point is that we need to develop all of our participation and all of our debts, which have driven the country into the last, probably before the Dignity Revolution, for tens of years. See how government debt grew, see how the economy fell when it was about to grow. And today we face these problems, and we need to overcome them. And what's more, I see today the way we're going to overcome these problems and take Ukraine to its deserved place -- the place of a country with a strong economy and a fair social policy, which is very important to all of us. As for the minister of health. The question is discussed in the coalition. We'll make a decision. We'll make sure of it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u39	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u40	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! Did you know that the tax registration server didn't work for four days, starting on May 13th? Such failures had occurred before, but they did not last longer, there, for more than a few hours. That's a very simple question. So when are you going to pay personal attention to the protection of databases that are in the DFS? It's from interference, it's the DFS workers and from external intervention, it's the security of the income part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u41	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for asking. The DFS system, you're right about what needs to be changed, including inside. But the situation over the last few months is changing in a positive way, and thanks to the responsibilities of the head of the DFS today. In particular, I would like to emphasize that we have an increase, with the substantial revenue coming from the Ukrainian customs office, which says that the customs system has begun, although it is still very far and very far to go. I'm going to give you a figure, my friends, a daily discount from customs payments to the Ukrainian budget was 800 million, today at least a billion 300 million a day. Imagine how different it was from the tools that were traditional on customs. Now this needs to be institutionalized, we need to be able to modernize customs, we need to be able to make the changes that need to be made in the structure itself, including the DFS, which we are doing today. Nina Petrovna, I didn't have information for four days, I'll find out and give you an answer or I'll ask the executive director of the DFS to contact you and let you know whether there was room for these four days or no place or how this affected tax administration. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u43	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! It's a shame that on a question from the opposition block MPs, you're slightly politicizing that answer. But I have a question of the next character. Here's a member of your government talking about the preference of the Association Agreement. Sadly, statistics show the opposite. The country's exports are down. If in 2013 it was 63 billion dollars, now it's 43 billion dollars. The Association Agreement works for raw agricultural products. And here's the question. What would be the valid government of Ukraine in line with the head of the State concert Antonov, an airline sector that unfortunately had nothing to do with aviation because it was selling transportation equipment, raising aviation construction? Because in 2016, unfortunately, no aircraft was produced in Ukraine, and Ukraine is an aviation state, we're all talking about it. What are the government's plans to improve the situation in this area with regard to the development of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u44	Thank you for your question, Mr. People's Deputy. Do not politicize your question. And I don't think that there's any particular attitude to you personally, I'm answering what I think. And I try to be as honest as possible in my answers. As for the question of the state of the national economy, as you know, the national economy gives positive signals of growth. Last year is 2.3 percent, 2.4 percent after the first quarter of 2017. It's a good signal that needs to be reinforced, including some things that need to be changed in legislation, for example, solving issues, dealing with fate, for example, government companies, which are inefficiently used, and 70 percent of which are completely harmful. This can only be done with the support of the Ukrainian Parliament, and you join the vote for government initiatives and coalition initiatives. Then, I think you're going to make a serious contribution to changing the structure of the economy, from a raw type to an economy with a high degree of added value. We are working today to develop various support programs in various areas, including aviation. At the end of the year, a number of laws were passed in this room, creating a tax regime for this area. The sphere is extremely competitive, but our advantage is that we are today a country that has completely full technology to create airplanes. And you're not right that they're gonna finish any planes. We finished the 132nd Antonov plane, which was recently in the air, and this is just the beginning. We need resources, finance, investment, the whole field to invest, hundreds of millions of dollars to invest. I would like to point out that during my official visits to various countries, I always violate the issue of our cooperation. With some countries, we started a cooperative process to create a common product. This is not a one - day process and cannot be resolved in a very short period of time. But what I'm stressing is that in the transport aircraft segment we have enough serious opportunities for new contracts with other countries, I don't want to open up country names here, but this is a work in progress. I think it's important to judge a person not by what she did or what education she has, but by the way, in terms of what she can do. I mean, professional or non-professional education, I don't think it's supposed to be a defining criterion, there's a lot of people who've studied jurisprudence, but today they're pretty serious managers in different areas, and it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it's personal qualities, the ability of a person to teach himself, its persistence, its effectiveness. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u46	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please pass the word to my colleague John Rybak. Please pass the word to John Rybaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u47	Please turn on the microphone. It's usually automatic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, from the representatives of the local self-government of Bukovina, I want to thank you for your changes to the 268th decree, which you have given the opportunity to do, allowing the government to receive a decent salary for the people of local self-government. In turn, I would like to ask you a very important question and draw your attention to a situation that may soon arise in connection with the introduction of a visa-free regime in the territory. Well, with the countries of the European Union. In the area of Bukovina, there are several checkpoints that are closed for unclear reasons. They don't repair, they don't open, and so the socio-economic situation in that region, in Bukovin, in the Stryzinetsky district, in the region of Czerniewec, is quite complex. Please get involved in this situation, and make sure there are openings to the Krasnoylsk Pass, Russia and Shepitat on the border with Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. We've got him. I'm going to be asked to determine the possibilities of opening up such items. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u50	Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u51	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, first of all, would like to thank you for your support of Dniper and for your development. I have two simple questions. First. By the end of the year, the government's regulation of 615th, from August 2016, provided for the obligation of hydroelectric power stations to hold locks to farms, and the bridge owners to fund the distribution and raising of bridge farms on their own. These initiatives do not require changes to laws. At the same time, the Government's mini-infrastructure failed to implement, and draft cancellation acts have not been developed. Any action taken to implement the task is not used. Why is the government’s commission not executed, and when will the appropriate human resources be drawn? And secondly, just by analyzing the plans of the IPU, we're seeing again the development of the ports of only the Great Odessa. When will this stop? And when will other ports of Ukraine develop too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. I think we need to have a joint meeting of ministries and national deputies whose districts are part of the port infrastructure in order to find out more systematically and synchronize our activities. And as for the first reading, I will send your request to the Minister of Infrastructure to personally inform you of the state of the matter. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u53	Thank you. Antonistak Andri Fedorovich, please. Colleagues, look, there's probably one or two more questions, depending on what the answer is. Please, Antonistak Andri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u54	Andrew Antonishtak, National Control political party. Volodymyr Borisovich, may I have your attention? I'm talking to you. It is a great request to oblige your subordinate minister of finance to visit the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. But a person completely ignores the opinion of Ukrainian national deputies, signs misunderstandings with the International Monetary Fund, represents the interests of transnational companies. It's about customs. There's no such thing as "trash" for today, it's completely atrophy. The security issue on customs is completely unsettled. Those decisions taken by the Minister of Finance, I find it a betrayal of Ukraine's interests. Please oblige him to visit the committee and count on the Ukrainian parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. I know you had a committee yesterday, and there was the First Deputy Minister of Finance. This was caused only by the Minister of Finance yesterday. Since yesterday, he's on a mission, he's gone. But you're absolutely right that the minister of profile has to visit his profile committee, participate in it all the time to understand the course of legislation, the passage of Ukrainian laws, the initiatives that the deputies have to take to make this dialogue at a high level. I agree with you absolutely, and upon his return, please assign a date either for the sessional week or not for the sessional week, as the committee will sit down, and I will send a minister. Yes, I am addressing all the national MPs. Please, if there are any comments to be made by committee ministers, I am willing to correct this. Please give me this information, and we will resolve this situation. Okay? I'd like that. Fellows, we've worked with you for a year, and I'd like to see where we have the pluses, where we have the minuses in organizational activity. You know, I know Parliament's work on the inside, I respect Parliament. And I'd like to keep this, our cooperation at a high level. So contact, committee communication is a very important element in synchronizing our actions. It can't be that Parliament is separate, the government is separate, or the committee is separate, and some minister is separate. Discussions may be different, but our task is to find a common solution in the name of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. I want to say that yesterday we had a meeting with the heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And one of the important issues that has been raised is that ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers are not always present on the committee when relevant profiling laws are being considered. Therefore, the request is for all and ministers: for cooperation to be even closer, even more concerted, a great request when there is a bill, especially a government bill, for ministers to be directly on the committee. And I'm sure we can do even closer cooperation between Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u57	Andriy Volodymyrovich, Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, I thank you for your understanding, but you're absolutely right to ask the question. I would like to request, if possible, Mr. Head, an order from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the Prime Minister of this matter personally. I emphasize that this is one of the main requirements: the presence of a minister at a meeting of the committee, the meeting of the Supreme Council, and the ability of the minister on this stand is justified to stand down, protect or provide answers and engage deputies in the adoption of a law. It's important, I fully recognize it, this principle. And I'd like to just keep me informed, and I'm going to react hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u58	Vladimir Borisovich, I will personally inform you of these incidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u59	Personally, you don't have to. I know you have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u60	But it's just the committees sometimes warn that they might not consider the bill if there's no minister. And I'm sure we can go through this stage. And I'm sure these are isolated cases, because cooperation, which is between parliament and government, is at a high level. We need to make it even more perfect and more effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u61	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u62	And let's thank our government, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for participating in the "hour of questions to the government." [[Applause]] Time's up, it's been three minutes, I've been talking about it. And the "hour of questions to the government" is over. And we're moving to the next chapter of the agenda, this is reading the parliamentary questions that came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I invite you to take the floor to read out the parliamentary questions of the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oxana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u63	Thank you. Let's move on to the questions. We have two questions that have come to the President of Ukraine. We need support by voting. First question. This is a request from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for financial policy and banking to the President of Ukraine for the inaction of the forces. I ask the National Deputies to identify themselves by voting in support of these requests. Please vote. [[11:15:05]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Request for President Taras Shepherd to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to Yuri Vladimirovich Gorayski. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote in favour of this request. Please vote. [[11:15:35]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next questions we have. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, to assist people with disabilities living in the Romani region of Žitomir, to receive their order for rehabilitation. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Zitomir District State Administration, for the allocation of funds for heating with the installation of a solid boiler in the kindergarten of the village of Malý Bratalov in the Lubar district of Žitomir district. Alexander Urbansky to the head of the Cherka District State Administration, the head of the Drabov District State Administration of the Cherkas region for the abuse of office, the destruction of natural reserve funds and obstacles to the management of rural councils of the village of Svetkovka and the village of Ostapivka of the Drabov region. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs concerning the unlawful alienation of corporate rights and property of the private enterprise ANSI. Oxana Jurinec to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine on specific issues of medical reform. Oksana Jurinec to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the form of crossing the border of Ukraine. Olesia Long to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on exemption from taxes on added value of electricity services. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the National Budget of Ukraine for 2017 for the purchase and repair of medical equipment for the Labedina Central District Hospital of Sumsk. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of ecosystems, the improvement of technical conditions, the well-being and order of the shorelines of Lake Shelikhivsk and Lebedin, which are located in the territory of the Labedin district of the Suma region. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a rational distribution of income from the rent of state property. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial security for the institutions of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine that are operating in the city of Harkov. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the financing of the coal sector under the budget programme "State support for coal companies to partially cover the cost of finished coal production" in 2017. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the allocation in 2017 of the public budget for the repair of public and local roads within Bousky, Radehivsky, Kamyanka-Buzki, Brodiv region of Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues relating to the provision of land to ATO participants. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the benefits and subsidies granted by municipal enterprises for the maintenance of houses and adjuvant areas. Aunts of Bacheva and Igor Shurma to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the absence of original documents on the education of the acting minister of health of Ukraine, questioning the legality of her being held in office. Artura Martovicko and Igor Šurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine on counterfeiting during the entire Ukrainian online rating vote for candidates for membership in the Public Council of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the requirements of current legislation in part of the recalculation and payment of pensions to veterans and pensioners of internal affairs bodies. Igora Shurma to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on corruption in connection with the purposeless use of budget funds by the head of the official delegation of the Ukrainian chess team at the World Chess Olympics. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the Hottin Department of the Chernobyl Blood Services District Center. Sergia Dunayeva to the head of the Court of Auditors for information on the use of funds in the Luhansk region in 2015-2016. Groups of National Deputies (Kryvenka, Berez and others) A total of 21 deputies) to the Head of the Presidential Administration, Head of the State Migration Service, to take action to end the Ukrainian citizenship of Truhanov Hennady Leonidovich, who holds the office of the Odessa City Head, with his voluntary acquisition of the citizenship of the Russian Federation and the citizenship of the Greek Republic. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the fight against cancer in the Chernigiv region. Anna Romanov to the head of Montenegro’s district government regarding the use of measures taken to combat teenage aggression. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the budget policy of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in part of the financing of the local budgets for the implementation of delegated mandates and the non-reduction of revenues to the local budgets of the local communities. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the award of a targeted subsidy from the state budget of Ukraine for the capital repair of Kharkiv Public Education School I-III in grades 60 of the City Council of Kharkiv. Alexander Suprunenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the improper organization of the educational process and the placement of students at the time of the reconstruction of the secondary education school No. 42 in the Dniprovov district of Kyiv. Olesia Long to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, Ukraine, for inclusion in the census of road traffic in the general use of state importance. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for viewing the size and borders of the observation area around Zaporzik AES in the part of the inclusion of the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" on the need to arrange for the proper railway movement on Brukhovetska Street in Lviv. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the Director of Municipal Property Administration of the Department of Economic Development of the Lviv City Council of Svistun Inni Vasilovna from 2014 to today, on possible signs of criminal offences that have damaged the budget of the city of Lviv on a particularly large scale. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to adopt a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers on the allocation in 2017 of State budget subsidies to local budgets for the construction of the infrastructure of the unified territorial communities. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the need for legislative consolidation of the living space required to recognize citizens who need to improve living conditions. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of road S140603 Zovva – Mocrotin - Sulimov on the Kulików - Merwich section, which has not been repaired for about 35 years. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Lviv District State Administration, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre for the provision of free access to the coastline of the Yavorów career and for the verification of the legality of the construction of buildings and buildings in the territory. Groups of National Deputies (Chekiti, Jephimova, and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide information on the extended number of thermal power stations to be reconstructed. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in the Vinnitsk Region for the creation of a separate division of the branch of the "Litina Rajavtodor" in the village of the city-type Latin Vinnitsky region at the base of the Latin DRP branch of the "Vinnička rajavtodor". Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the creation and restoration of a military cemetery near the village of Lagoda of the Premyslán district of Lviv region at the site of the Galician Battle of World War I. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction and disregard of the direction of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Holy Office of the Police of the Central Administration in Kiev in the investigation of criminal conduct opened by the fraud of the acquisition of property and business by the citizen Semenyuk Vasil Ivanovic. Vladimir Ariev to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the National Police Department in Kiev, on the inaction of the Vosius Police Department of the Central Police Department in Kiev, in a criminal investigation conducted against a citizen named Kust Viktor Mihajlovich. Victor Halasyuk, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities for the provision of information on engineering networks. Helen Stotnik to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for information on the administration of the state and guaranteed state debt of Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, for the immediate involvement of the State authorities in coping with the effects of the environmental disaster on the rivers of Swett and Gomorrah in the region of Žitomir. Jury-Bogdan SHUCHEVICH to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Veterans, Participants in Action, Anti-Terrorist Operation and People with Disabilities, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Government-authorized Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Authorized President of Ukraine with Human Rights with Disabilities, the Authorized Supreme Council with Human Rights on the immediate cessation of human rights abuses against persons with special needs, as a result of which the recently disabled person of the first group, Mr. Vladimir Jouribíd, was not satisfied with his due diligence and failed to be apprehensive of his pension. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District Administration for the organization of treatment, provision of medicines and medicines at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on contributing to the completion of the engineering and environmental expertise on atmospheric air pollution and water protection violations by officials of the T.O.T. "Poninkova cardboard paper factory" in 2016. Roberta Gorvato to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the development of standards and standards in the field of water use and water preparation. Jury Pavlenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the grounds for banning the entry into Ukraine of Shuvalov Igor Juriyovich. Paul Kishkar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the delay in payment to the Society with limited responsibility for the "ABI Ukraine" debt for the provision of licensed software to the executive authorities in 2013. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Director of the Department of State Architectural Inspection in the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the North Office of the Derjaudit Service in the Vinnitsk Region for the non-execution by the contractor of the T.O. " Bridge Construction Unit No. 112 of the Bridge Reconstruction through the South Bug River in the village of the city-type Sutisk of the Tivriv district of Vinnitsk, for expenses incurred at the expense of the budget. Alexia Rybkin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the purpose of verifying the possible delay of pretrial investigations into the illegal possession of the property of the agricultural enterprises "Godduhish", "Trust" and the death of S.O. Zinchenko. Oksana Korczynski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the regular refusal to provide information on the treatment of military personnel in the military hospitals of the Ministry of Defence after the injuries and injuries in the ATO zone. Oksana Korczynski to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, for conducting investigations into the obstacles to work in the Donetsk OT. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on industrial development in Ukraine. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of recognition of the Education Department of the Páznańska District Public Administration as a legal successor to the rights and obligations of the Education Administration of the First-Majska City Council of the Lugansk Region, with a view to settling the issue of payment for arrears on salary for 2014 to former employees of the Hire Multi-Profession High School. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the need to carry out a review of the PAT documents provided by the Financial Company "STS-Invest" for participating in the second-market housing competition for the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Blogs, Petovkas, Balogs, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the Department of Nuclear Physics to the Faculty of Physical Sciences of the Uzhgorod National University. Vadim Yvchenk, head of the State Treasury Service, Ukraine, for the provision of information on the remaining funds in the Single Treasury Account. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Ternopil State Administration, the Hussetin District Council of the Ternopil area on the legality of the decision to hold a state registration of the legal person of the Hussetin Central Municipal District Hospital and the establishment of the Hussetin Regional Hospital. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the inadmissibility of biases in criminal investigations. Valentina Nichiporenka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations in order to facilitate the payment of salaries to employees of electricity networks in the Talnivo district of Pat "Chercasioblenergo". Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for Amendments to Decision No. 848 of 21 October 1995 concerning the granting of housing benefits and subsidies to the population. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the acquisition of special cars for persons with disabilities. Vadim Krivohatka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the restoration of justice in the mother’s death of all compensation payments provided for by law. Vadim Krivochatka, head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, explains the procedure for submitting a declaration to the Single State Register of Declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self - government in the event of a breach of its terms. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the allocation of the balance of the subsidy from the State budget to the local budgets for the financing of socio-economic compensation measures. on the allocation of the balance of the subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate for the risk of the population living in the area of observation for 2016 in the Volodymyrsky region of the Plain region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District State Administration on the need to allocate funds for the construction of the gas pipeline to the villages of Berest, Orvijanica, Solomiyuk, Koras, Coast of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the installation of individual appliances for the calculation of natural gas in Harkov’s apartment buildings. Alexander Kirsch to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Kirilenka, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the provision of state funding to the Kharkiv Social Theatre of the children "Timur". Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the establishment of hospital districts and the failure of the Ministry of Health to fulfil its obligations. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of payment to doctors and the elimination of the imbalance in pay for workers in health institutions of different qualifications. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an objective review of the referral of pensioners to internal affairs regarding a comprehensive solution to the issue of the recalculation of their pensions. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfying and absurd response to the parliamentary request No. 74 of 23 March 2017 for co-financing in 2017 of the reconstruction of the CU "Central City Hospital of Žitomir" to ensure the social guarantees and constitutional rights of residents of the Žitomir region, the unwillingness to jointly address the problems of residents of the Žitomir region and the lack of a constructive dialogue on the legislative and executive branch of government, the use of necessary response measures. Alexia Lensky and Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out a check of the correctness of the payment of social benefits to the Lonely Heroic Mother Vygovska Tetyana Vasilovna, who raises ten children, three of whom are disabled, and to contribute to the realization of all social and constitutional rights and guarantees that are in line with the rules of the Ukrainian legislation in force. Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on ensuring full, objective and impartial investigation of crimes committed against the Ukrainian People's Choice and its participants. Vassil Nimchenk to the prosecutor of the Cherka district for violations of legislation and abuse of the service position of the Tallinn city head Jurchenk Aleksy Vitaliyovich. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Economic and Social Development, on the anticipation of funding in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for the reconstruction of the sports hall of the specialized school No.202 of the right-wing district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" for the provision of direct railway connections to the Baltic, Vradiyevka, Pervomaysk, Pomajna and Kropivnitskih to the capital, as well as the continuation of the route of the Lviv - Cerkasa train. Tetjana Bachevi and Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the death toll in Lviv because of the absence of life - sustaining drugs in connection with the delay in the process of public procurement by officials of the Ministry of Health. Romana Macoli to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, on the report of the crime in accordance with article 214 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues relating to the provision of medicines for sugar and non-sugar diabetes in the city of Alexandria in Kirovograd. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of a school in the village of Pisokiv County of the State Regional Development Fund. Roman Semenha to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the order of accounting for gas consumption for persons registered in housing but not actually living in it. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, to prevent the sale of second-class milk by private farmers in rural areas. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the introduction of internally displaced persons into the Single Information Database on Internally Moved Persons. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine for the transfer of the DP "Restructuring Research" to the National Centre for Seed Science and the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine for the administration of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine. Sergey Sakka and Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine to bring to justice officials of the Ministry of Health who are responsible for the damage to the state budget as a result of official negligence. Sergey Saska and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the removal of Ukrainian voting rights during the election of the Director-General to the Assembly of the World Health Organization due to default against the organization. Irina Sisoyenko to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on violations during public procurement. Irina Konstanovic to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of six prominent dormitories to the municipal property of the city of Lucca. Alexander Zholbeckov to the Director of the State Enterprise "Elita Research Farm" of the State Institution of Mikolaiowska State Agricultural Research Station of the Institute of Irrigated Agriculture of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for the provision of information on land that is located in the use of the State Enterprise "Elita" in the Vitov region of Mikolai. Romana Macola to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of State authorities and law enforcement authorities to the fact that there is a illegal gambling business in the cities of Shepetovka, Slavuta, Hmelni district. Irina Efraemov, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian minister of health to assist in the treatment of Ostapchuku Igor Anatoliyovich, namely, an urgent bone marrow transplant. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Public Shareholders' Board of Public Association of the "State Shareholders Company " of the Roads of Ukraine", acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for the Protection of Socio-Economic Rights and Interests of Workers of the Road Farms of Kamyansk, Smilyansk and Cherka region of the Cherka region. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the issuance of the ATO member's breastplates to the fourth to sixth queues of partial mobilization, which, at risk of life and health, took part in an anti-terrorist operation in eastern Ukraine. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on illegal actions and obstacles to exercising authority over local self-government in the Sumskie region by individuals and civil organizations. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the immediate change in the traffic schedule and the continuation of the bus route between some locations in the Poltava region. Irina Konstankevitch to the director of the Society with limited responsibility for the Biofuel Energy Company, the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association Gnidava Sugar Plant on the prevention of environmental disaster in Lutsk and surrounding areas of the Volin region in connection with the activities of the Biofuel Energy Company. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking for the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for Illegal Action and Inaction. Igor Popov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the creation of a working group to develop a consolidating draft of the Anti-Corruption Court Act. People’s Deputies ( Palamarchuka, Kiskara, Krivenka) to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for a lengthy hearing of the complaint against the judges of the Kirov district court of Kirovograd. Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal activities of the local charity Foundation of Mikolayev High School No. 2. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for taking appropriate steps to carry out the capital repair of the preschool facility in an emergency. Sergey Lechchenka to the Secretary of the National Security Council of Ukraine on a possible groundless ban on the use of 1S:Business software. Sergija Lešchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper examination of the MP's address and the appeal of a citizen by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in 2017 for the construction and capital repair of social sites in the Stavischenski and Skuri district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the interim responsibility of the Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Director of the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Kyiv District Public Administration for Environmental and Sanitary Epidemiological Safety of the Population of Uzin Bilocerk district of Kiev. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion in the list of objects to be financed under the grant from the budget of the Velikosilki NVC "WHO I-III Article-DZ". Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the resolution of the issue of PAT investors "Bank Mikhailowski". Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Viennese District Council, the head of the Vinnick district administration on the need for work on the rehabilitation of the body of an expert M.I. A pie. Sergia Labazuka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the construction of a highway along the street of Sičov Sagittarius in Hmelnitski. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for the preservation in the education system of educational institutions, which are separate departments of universities, academics and institutions. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to resolve the issue of timely compensation from the State budget to local budgets for benefits and subsidies. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the differentiation of salaries in medical and educational institutions. Ruslan Solvar and Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District Administration, Head of the Žitomir District Council, Head of the Kyiv District Council, Head of the Zitomir District Authority for the free provision of sugar diabetes to patients with the first type of insulin. Yurya Shapovalova and Ruslan Solvara until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the head of the Poltava District Public Administration to ensure the smooth implementation of the State's "Affordable Medicines" programme. Yuri Shapovalova and Ruslan Solvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Acting Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the Fair Distribution of Environmental Taxes, taking into account the interests of the settlements in which harmful production is located. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the information needed to calculate the real estate tax. Borislava Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of the territory of the national natural park "Golosiowski". Borislav Bereza to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Service on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre for the removal of violations when granting permits for the allocation of land by participants in hostilities and persons compared to them. Sergey Labazuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Hmeljna Municipal Council, Head of the Hmeljna District Public Administration to decide on the issue of improving living conditions for the participant of the fighting activities of Kalita Valeri Viktorovich. Oksana Biloz to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality on the application of measures to ensure the implementation of Supreme Council Regulation No. 268-VII "To mark the 110th anniversary of Boris Gmiri's birth." Yurya Bereza to Dniprovi, a city head, to appeal to the citizen of Yellow Nina Alexandrovna for permission to do good work and to take the land area under the house at Dnipro, 3a Yury Savchenka Street. Jurya Bereza to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of higher education institutions I-II levels of accreditation from the State budget until the issue of legislative settlement of the status and place of higher education institutions I-II levels of accreditation in the education system of Ukraine is fully resolved. Alexander Briginz, acting as head of the General Directorate of the Department of the Department of State of Ternopils, on the status of the land that is on the balance and ownership of the Ternopil district council of the Berežan Psycho-neurological Home of the Interior. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health for the provision of parliamentary control over the Government’s activities in the area of health care, public procurement of medicines in 2015 - 2017. Igor Kotwiecki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to finance the completion of repairs of general use roads in the Kharkiv region. Dmitry Sphenov, under the temporary responsibility of the Director of the State Enterprise, NEK Krennergo, to take all possible measures and to contribute to the preparation of the necessary documents for the transfer of three unfinished construction objects to the municipal property of the territorial community for further release to the participants of the ATO. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the suspension of the adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of Aircraft by Unmanned Aviation Complexes of the State Air Force of Ukraine in accordance with the order of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine No. 661 of 8 December 16th year. To the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine to contribute to the restoration of the direct flight of Kiev - Lisbon. Yurya Solovya to the head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration on the construction of the road of the local meaning of Jabloun, the Kosmach of the Kosovo region of Ivano-Frankiv region. Yuri Solova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, who is responsible for the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the construction of the local road S090803 Yablonov - Kosmach. Victor Vuk to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the use of emergency response measures to secure payment of arrears from the Chercasioblenergo PAT and eliminates the risk of an emergency power outage of all categories of consumers in the Cherkas region. Andrija Galchenka and Constantine Pavlov to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for settlement of payments by the State Treasury Service, which is guaranteed by the State. Taras Shepherd to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on taking into account the harmful working conditions of 5th-grade textiles in retirement. Irina Souslowy to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the UN Committee's concluding observations on eliminating discrimination against women as a result of the consideration of Ukraine's eighth periodic report. Irina Suslowy, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the distribution and transfer of medical supplies for the treatment of persons in need of organ transplantation. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, head of the Visnicke District State Administration of the Cherniewec Region for the provision of medical assistance to the oncochly resident of the village of Mihov Visinicke district of Cherniewec region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, head of the Visnik District State Administration of the Cherniewec Region for the provision of assistance for the treatment of oncological residents of the Beregomet Province of Chernivets region. Constantine Jarinich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for Recalculation of Pensions to State Officials in accordance with the Law. Constantine Jarinić to the finance minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s minister of health for the use of measures aimed at providing necessary medical supplies for diabetic patients in the city of Alexandria Kirovograd. Jury Timoshenko to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the payment of cash compensation to the parents of the deceased military officer. Yurya Timoshenko to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the preservation of the Austrian "Casarmi" ("Casarni"), located at: Ivano-Frankiv district, Colomia city, ul. Tchaikovsky, bud.7. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the provision of low-income children to the city of Marijnka and the village of Pobeda of the region of the Donetsk region with free travel documents. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of fair conditions for the conduct of the business of utilities. Andrija Shinkovič, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelni district council, the head of the Hmelni district government authority on the need to purchase a specialized ambulance for the Isiaslav Central District Hospital. Irina Sisoyenko, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the immediate realization of the additional cost of paying for the work of health workers in the region. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in medical and medical tariff levels and the increase in the budget for medical subsidies to local budgets. Jury of Derevyanka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on violations by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of Ukrainian laws in the conduct of the registration of the political party "Blok Mikheil Saakashvili" - an artificial clone of the political party "Michael Saakashvili" by Michael Saakashvili. Boris Kozir to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the return to the state property of the forest area of the recreational destination of the Ochakov Forest Farm company, which has been used since 2008 by the private company AAS. Jury Levchenka to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region, on the issue of the release of Kondratiev Andrija Juriovich from the post of Chief of State Administration for the Dnipropetrov region for violating the State official's oath in connection with the discrediting of the public authorities. Jury Levchenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on illegal construction on Sichov Sagittarius Street, 59 Kiev City, and other issues. Mr. Knieżicko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the inaction of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service. Groups of National Deputies (Petrenka, Illenka, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to explain the ineffective use of the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine in financing the activities of public organizations and other associations of war veterans, war activists and war invalids. Ruslana Demczak to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Director of New Mail Company, Director-General of the Private Shareholders Association, Kyiv Air Conditioning Company Karl Marx, Head of the Public Shareholders Association, Private Bank, Head of the Government of the Private Shareholders Association, Zitomirska lasmosti, on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Their Symbolism. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the National Police Department in the Vinnitsk Region regarding the need for an objective investigation into the arbitrary seizure of land in the Vynitz region of the Funeral Region. Paul Dzublik's acting head of the government of the public shareholders' association of the State Shareholder Company, the Ukrainian Automobile Roads, the minister of infrastructure in Ukraine for the provision of winter road technology. Alons Schkrum to the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy and Justice on the creation of a working group to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law on Media (registration number 3665, from 17.12.2015) Committee on Legal Policy and Justice Alons Schkrum to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for National Security and Defence, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Committee for the preparation of the draft law (registration number 6400) "On the temporary occupation by the Russian Federation of the territory of Ukraine" by the Committee for National Security and Defence. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the objective review of the re-appealation of war veteran Kostin Grigori Fedorovich, who lives in the Kyiv district of Odessa, on the provision of assistance for the free establishment of an individual gas counter and the timely provision of a comprehensive explanation of legislation on the number of housing and utility tariffs and gas for socially vulnerable population groups. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, Odessa District Public Administration on the need for an objective review of the re-examination of the resident of the Primorski District of Odessa, a disabled person from the childhood of the second group, Viacheslav Alexijinka, on a comprehensive solution to the issue of ensuring that housing and electrical services are provided, as well as adequate assistance for timely payment of such services. Roberta Gorvato to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on adequate compensation for damage caused to a citizen by the illegal activities of bodies carrying out operational investigations, investigative bodies, the prosecutor's office and the court. Irina Herashchenko to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the use by the authorities of Ukraine of measures to stop the dissemination of information materials from the ORDLO, which violates Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. We finished reading the queries. We have a number of appeals from deputies who are not satisfied with the answers to their questions. I would like to see the words of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! As early as January 13, 2017, I went to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to help solve the problem of replacing the ball joint with the resident of Novograd-Wolinski Levchuku. This was due to the fact that without such surgery other drugs could not be used to treat complex diseases. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has given the Ministry of Health an appropriate mandate. And that's how I got the answer to that first statement. And he didn't get the answer until two months later. The content of this reference was that there is now a process of trading at the expense of 2016. This was at the end of March 2017. And when there's money, we're going to make a decision and we're going to put this person in line for the operation. Obviously, I had to ask the Cabinet of Ministers again, and I made that request in March. Two months later, I received a response, not from the Cabinet of Ministers, but from the Ministry of Health, so much so that we continue to bid for the purchase of the required ball joints for 2016, as well as work to announce the auctions according to the allocated funds for 2017. Please tell me, can this answer please a person when his life is at stake? I am again addressing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First of all, why didn't you buy the necessary equipment for 2016, the costs? And why is the project so slow to absorb funds for 2017? And finally, find a way to solve this problem with this person so that she can live. And finally. I must tell you, my fellow Members, I don't remember such unscrupulous treatment of parliamentary questions. I'm not talking about what ten people are talking about, not the ones you're talking to, but the main thing is the content, and the content is about formal, soulless writings. I understand that everyone's never because they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u65	Thank you. National MP Sergei Kaplin. None. National deputy Sergei Matvienkov. None. National Deputy Yuri Pavlovenko None. So we're done. No, there's no other way. In view of the fact that we've completed our consideration of the parliamentary questions, we'll go back to the various issues after the break. And now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Please prepare for entry. Please hold the recording. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Miroshnick. And we agree, traditionally, three minutes, no more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u67	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! On the next Wednesday, May 31, Ukraine, along with the world, will celebrate the World Day without Tobacco. For me, this subject is both joyful and painful. I am very happy and proud of the Ukrainian Parliament, which in 2012 changed anti-smoking legislation for the active work of many deputies and public activists: tobacco advertising was completely banned, and coffee, bars, and restaurants were freed from smoking cigarettes. These and other measures have helped to move Ukraine out of the disgraceful fourth place, with the prevalence of smoking in the third decade. We braked the tobacco epidemic and became one of the world’s leaders in the field of the protection of people from cigarettes. The most impressive result for me was that the prevalence of daily smoking among young people between the ages of 18 and 30 fell from 37 percent in 2013 to 26.7 in 2017. The nation is getting healthier. At the same time, I am sorry that five years have passed since 2012, and no other costly measures have taken since the decline in tobacco use. Yes, we have a good dynamic of increasing excise duties on tobacco products, and as a result of the increase in the price of cigarettes, but no anti-smoking measures and laws have yet been adopted. Over the past five years, the tobacco industry of death has focused on our children and young people, for the involvement of new smokers is their financial future. By me and the other 18 deputies from all the factions of Parliament, there is a registered law, the draft Law 4030, which is also supported by the Health Committee of Profiles and provides for a general prohibition and prohibition. The ban on cigarette exhibitions that are now used as advertising for bans. And it's also threatened after the Tax and Customs Committee has registered the so-called 2430-d amended bill and has convinced that it includes the initiatives of all anti-tumpet laws, including those proposed in our bill. I would like to state that this is an open introduction into the deception of our fellow MPs. I very much hope, fellow colleagues, that the good work that Ukraine already has in fighting tobacco, we will be able to continue with you. And the citizens are encouraged to join in public support for those legislative initiatives that allow our children and our country to be freed from tobacco and as a result of the task.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u68	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u69	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs, of course, we know that today the extreme bell is going through our schools in Ukraine, extreme or last, as we used to call it, but I think the bells will still be. What worries me today as the head of a family subcommittee, young people, and children is that we think of the rest of our children. Summer, these three months, it's going to be pretty bright, but we have to count and do this little analysis. In the 15th year, I was able to rest 1 million 978 thousand, to heal the children. In the 16th year, 2 million 88,000. One million of them are 176 thousand in the 15th. And 1 million 310,000, that's the 16th year's payoffs. That's why both the Ministry of Social Policy and the local budgets, we have to think about it and not regret the costs of the Cabinet of Ministers in order for children to be able to rest in three months, to gain strength, and to come to school with new strength. So I think I'm going to welcome all the teachers of Ukraine today. They deserve what we today in this high rostrum have said a good word for them. The second thing that would want to be the same again, and this is all of Ukraine's concern, is that today we have the detention of these tax collectors of the so-called and the courts of Ukraine, who are nightmares of us all. Yes, indeed, yesterday we watched "Right to Power" by "1+1", where Attorney General Lucenko spoke, and we see support for the hall, support for Ukraine, 65 percent of the Attorney General. That's quite a support. Unfortunately, though, the judicial reform, where you and I were unable to implement it, was unable to do everything possible to prevent these courts from releasing these taxpayers. We can see perfectly when we asked one of the taxpayers if you would find these 10 to 12 million bets, he said, at a cost, no problem. This, of course, is not his money, and we understand that very well. Also, as I would like to ask one more question, it is the cry of the soul of our village. Again, we enter the summer and the price of milk. I would very much like all the companies that collect, who accept, who process milk, to keep the price of these 4 bracelets, to keep it as low as possible. Because the time will come that we will have no cow in the village. I think we should, and the people's deputies to do that, push entrepreneurs to make sure that the peasants don't have any milk prices. But it has to be much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u70	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk. He was given the word Kuprienko and Popov. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u71	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, "Radical Party" faction. Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues who are in this room and who care about the fate of Ukraine! Just after the "Radical Party" initiative, a bill was registered in Parliament (6514) aimed at destroying the investment barriers that exist in the development of the Ukrainian economy and industry. Today the situation in the Ukrainian industry and the economy is catastrophic. And the reflection, the testimony to this situation is that the unacceptably low standard of living of the citizens we have today. The beggarly pensions and wages are the result of the weakness of the national economy. To raise the standard of living of citizens, to index pensions not by 10-20 percent, but at the same time to raise the minimum wage to at least 5,000 dollars, we need to raise Ukrainian industry and Ukrainian production. There is no other recipe. For this to happen, the country needs investment. In fact, Ukraine today has an iron curtain that does not allow industry to develop either to Ukrainian or to foreign investors. If you look at the amount of investment per capita today, you'll see that in Ukraine the level of investment is the same as in Honduras and Namibia. We're 5-6 times behind Poland and Slovakia. We're way behind Germany and France. We're almost 15 times behind Canada. What does that mean? When there is no investment in the country, it means that there is no production, no jobs are created, no taxes are paid to the budget. This means that there is nothing normal about paying pensions and wages. Then the government turns its back on the domestic producer, returns its face to the International Monetary Fund, and goes for the next loan. And we get our hands tied up and they tell us what to do and what not to do. The forest is cheaply sold, the metal trade is priceless, and the pension age is raised. Our hands are twisted instead of helping our development. The Radical Party faction offers a vastly different approach to economic development. We have just introduced Bill 6514 to Parliament foresaw a schedule of import VAT for all production equipment for three years. This means that investment in core funds will become much more accessible to Ukrainian and international investors. This bill, in a package with two other major fundamental economic initiatives, is capable of radically changing the country's economic fate. The second bill, which is already under consideration in Parliament and which we require from the tax committee, is Bill 5276 on the elimination of import duties on manufacturing equipment. Those who want to invest in our country should not pay artificial corruption taxes. We must not stop the development of Ukrainian production and industry. The third bill in this fundamental package is industrial park legislation (2554a-d; 2555a-d). This package of legislative initiatives, its adoption in the Ukrainian Parliament, will allow investors to create conditions that will make it easier for investors to invest in the Ukrainian industry, in the development of Ukrainian production, to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs so that we can overcome the problem of the flow of personnel from Ukraine, so that we don't lose tens of thousands of talented Ukrainians every day, so that we can overcome the two million jobs that exist today and that are facing the most vulnerable segments of the population. There are millions of displaced persons who cannot find a job to feed their family. Why? Maybe there's no raw material in Ukraine. Yes. Maybe there's no sense or talent in Ukraine. Yes. Is there something else missing? Yes, it's not enough, the state's true pro-Ukrainian economic policy. And this is what the Radical Party faction is proposing, not just criticizing the government, but offering a real alternative. These three legislative initiatives are aimed at breaking down barriers to investment, economic development, and the restoration of the Ukrainian industry. I would like to point out that this is only a small part of those bold initiatives, that complex approach that Oleg Lashk and I and our fellow Members in this Parliament have proposed to the President, the Government and the Supreme Council. This is a comprehensive plan for modernizing the country's development, which will allow for a meaningful, meaningful increase in the well-being of Ukrainians, not only to raise incomes, but to make prices not grow at the same rate that incomes do, so that people can actually feel that they can buy not only food, medicine, clothes, treat their parents, teach their children, but look with confidence at tomorrow. What kind of development plan does the country need, and the disgraceful memoranda with the International Monetary Fund or the constant demands from abroad, whether we sell the forest, whether it's the retirement age we raise or something else. Ukrainians will soon be bought because today the flow of immigrants from Ukraine who cannot work is extremely high. So you have to have a government approach. And I call upon all the Ukrainian national MPs, regardless of your political views, to support the industrial modernization of Ukraine, to support the investment renaissance so that we have a wealthy, successful nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u72	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u73	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear TV setters! Dear colleagues who are in the hall. I want to thank the People's Deputies for supporting the two bills. One about the Antonov factory that I've been offering and that's taken out of this company, and so far it's hard, but it's working. The second is 400 million dollars, it's financing the energy debts of the South German, which we also voted with you and we were able to start the plant, and although it's working very badly right now, people don't get paid, but it works. I'd like to ask you a lot. There's another bill, 5693. We've taken a big step this week, we've included it in the agenda, it's paying off the payout in front of our rocket builders. Let's support it, because the state owns the Southern. He doesn't do management, let's fire him. Checks? Send them to the government to check the activity, but you can't do that when we pay the miners, we pay the wages, and we don't pay the rocket builders, and the best people get fired. It's the same thing at Kharkiv Air Force. I was at this company. We've drafted a bill that will allow Anton's to be removed from the company's neck. Let's do the same thing, support it, and I call on the committees of profile, and I want to thank the committee of industry for supporting these bills. And all your colleagues, do your job in your factions, let's save the Harkowe Air Force and the South German. I also want to be a representative of the People's Movement to report on this week's work, political work. First. My colleagues and I registered with the Presidential Administration where three Truhanov passports were issued, which is the mayor of Odessa, and then a colleague approached me and said, "Can I sign up?" Society, you can and will send your petitions to the Presidential Administration. It is not possible for citizens of a foreign state to rule the Ukrainian city. So, we see what was the provocation with decommunization before May 2nd, we see that how many heroic statements there were in our individual colleagues and we didn't do anything and we refused to sign. So I joined Mr. Leschchenk's signature of Mr. Boyk's address. Similarly, we turned to the head of the Ternopil region to make sure that the situation in OTG Gustin, when the district council, in an effort to preserve its income, shuts down the hospital, violates the procedure, and tries to re-register it physically at another residential location so that taxes remain in the district government so that no reform of local self-government can be made. Under our pressure, the pressure of colleagues from other parties, atos, Afghans, this decision has been overturned. I very much urge Mr. Stephen Barna to look into this decision. And thank you to my colleague at Michael Saucuk's party for taking an active position there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u74	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National MP. Now the Head announcement will do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I now invite the hall so that you don't feel so alone, I've come to you. My colleagues, I would like to inform you simply and publicly about the organization of our work next plenary week, as Monday will be the weekend. In line with the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, the next meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place not on Monday, but on Tuesday at 9 a.m., and at 11 a.m. we will begin the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 9 p.m., 11 p.m., p.m. And I would like to point out to you that, actually, June 6th is the last day when the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider the appointment of the Human Rights Council. And that's why this day is going to be very much in the middle of this event, because it's going to predict a certain degree. A full discussion, then a vote, and according to the legislation in force, there will be ballots, secret ballots, and so it will take time. What is more, if in the first round, no candidate gets the required number of votes, then two of those who take the first place will be put again and again with the ballots. And this procedure is likely to take a long time. So, I think it'll be right if we take this day in between, when the Counting Commission is going to calculate the ballots, we're going to propose certain laws into the order of the day. But in general, this day will be a part of the procedure for appointing the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. That's what I'd like to tell other people's deputies, too, so that we can properly organize the process next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u76	Please make a deal with Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u77	We continue our talks, and I invite you to the floor of the People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u78	Yuri Derevyanco, Will Party, Movement of New Forces. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! After joining the political party "Will" with the political party Michael Saakashvili "The Movement of New Forces" we submitted an updated, new statute for the political party "The Movement of New Forces" to register with the Ministry of Justice. And on May 22 there was an unprecedented event. An unprecedented situation and case involving democracy in Ukraine, which refers to the right of every Ukrainian to his own choice, which relates to the assassination of fraud. What happened on May 22nd. On May 20th, under the command of Dustenka and Yatsenuk, the Ministry of Justice did not register the real "The Movement of New Forces" by Michael Saakashvili, instead registered the Faykow Block of Mikhail Saakashvili, which was registered not only as a party, but was registered simultaneously by all district and district organizations throughout Ukraine in Kiev. Imagine the situation, the real Michael Saakashvili party is not registered, they register the charter and register the Mikhail Saakashvili party. And why am I talking about Peter Prashenko and Arsenius Yatzenuk behind this? Because the person who organized this whole process is, unfortunately, our colleague from the Peter Prashenko Block, this is Mr. Dmitri Dolubov, who, through his assistant and through other people, renamed the so-called Georgian Party that they controlled, the Mikhail Saakashvili Block. And Minister Petrenko, in carrying out this order, you are well aware that it is the minister of justice who controls such important things as political parties, registers the Mikhail Saakashvili Block and refuses to register the real party "The Movement of New Forces" by Michael Saakashvili. You know, this is a huge disgrace. That means they're afraid that the authorities are afraid today of Michael Saakashvili's New Forces Movement and other political parties. This means that they went along the path that Janukovic did when, you know, the Fatherland clones registered, and not only that other clones would come closer to the election, the Sadducee Block or the Lachka Block or the other politicians' block, the other political forces that are now going to compete. So we're talking about this as an unprecedented case, this is an attempt at democracy, to undermine its democratic foundations. That's why we're calling you "The Movement of New Forces" on behalf of Michael Saakashvili, on behalf of all activists, to support our action, which will take place on Tuesday at 11: 00 a.m. on Rilsky Street, 10, under the Ministry of Justice, where we'll be holding an open gathering of the real Michael Saakashvili Party "The Movement of New Forces". I call upon all concerned national MPs to come, come and support this, to rise up against this insolence. I'm also calling on all Ukrainian citizens to be concerned, because this is fraud, this is an attempt at free choice of people, to deceive people, to have at least two or maybe even more different blocks of Michael on the ballot.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u79	Thank you. The word is given to Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u80	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. It is not news that every Ukrainian pays high prices and tariffs for energy services. This is electricity, gas, heat, and other utilities. The majority of decisions are in the hands of one regulator: NCRECR. We demand that all decisions be professional and uninvolved. I'd like to focus on what's going on so that we can reach all the unbiased and professional decisions. To date, all members of the NCRECR have been appointed by decree of the President. In September the Supreme Council passed the Law on Change and Rotation in the NCRECR. For two months we waited for the law to be signed, for four months we waited for the President's order to begin the rotation, and at the end the decree took place. Everyone expected the wolf to be released in the first wave, in fact, the person who was actually responsible for all of these decisions, but he was last but a year and a half later. Well, so be it. What is happening today? We know that two people are to be appointed by the Supreme Council, a nomination commission that will elect members of the commission. A well-established coalition in person and the People's Front and the Petra Prashenko Block have already voted twice in the hall of impenetrable, engaged candidates, thus not opening the way for the appointment of new members of the commission. Today, 26 numbers, today is the last day of the work of two members of the commission. And so from tomorrow we have only four members of the NCREKP Commission. Six months from now, only two will be left. So this leads to a complete collapse and a total failure to make the right professional decisions. We demand authority, in fact, to come to terms and allow the process to open up to the appointment of a truly independent regulator, rather than to lead as the authorities do today, having a formal independent regulator who is, in fact, working for the interests of the oligarchs and the interests of those who can manage them without having any responsibility de jure. So we demand and ask a very powerful coalition to come up with and propose those candidates who are actually going to be independent, professional, and then we can clearly say that the creation of the NCRECR as an independent professional body will be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u81	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! As soon as we get the information from the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we have practically the following plenary week on Tuesday we're really going to choose the Human Rights Commissioner here of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is, this is a serious job. But we have less and less working hours in plenary mode until the holidays of the so-called Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that we have three plenary weeks left. We have three plenary weeks left. Dear colleagues, what am I talking about right now? The government has promised to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on so-called pension reform, a draft Ukrainian law on the circulation of agricultural land, other legislative initiatives that people so expect to see the anti-sociality of this government in general. I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make it clear that these important bills should be government laws. So that the government, as always, does not hide behind any of the honourable fellow MPs and submit them to the Supreme Council by enacting a law and saying that it supports them or not. So that we can have a nationwide discussion, and so that these laws, which apply to all people, are deliberately accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that everyone should be responsible for the work that is theirs in accordance with the Constitution. Next question. It's a matter of fairies. You know, today our information space is full of all kinds of fairies. For example, yesterday a faik appeared, which shows the city council in a negative light. Butimto, the city council has decided to ban the opposition block. This information does not match the reality, this was not the issue at all. Who needed it? So we looked at the sites that first appeared on Ukriform, then we looked at "politeka.net," and then it printed "Ukrainian Truth," and then TSN and so on. And it is immediately seen that all of this provocation is made in power and in the interests of power. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, we need to give a clear and clear signal to the authorities. They like opposition or they don't like it, but if they talk about Europe and Europe, the presence of opposition is a European norm. And if they already want to act against the opposition, only on the basis of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I insist that all the information resources that this Faik has provided, which demean the Montenegrin City Council and the people in general in the Montenegrin region, be able to correct this information, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u83	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u84	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the Germans finally took the first steps to recognize and acknowledge their enormous historical guilt before the Ukrainians. There was a debate in the German Parliament on the draft resolution entitled "The Historical Responsibility of Germany to Ukraine". The statements made by the Bundestag deputies testified. I think this process is very difficult for the Germans. And there are still serious problems in Germany's perception of Ukraine. Many Germans view Ukraine as part of a former Soviet or historical Russia that prevents them from viewing Ukraine as a sovereign state with their own history and identity, as well as a people oriented towards a civil Europe. What is more, the dominant place in the collective consciousness of the Germans in eastern Europe is still Russia, and part of the responsibility for Nazi crimes, a complex of guilt before Jews, Poles, and Russians, but not before the Ukrainians as one of the main victims of Nazism. Instead, there are common Kremlin propaganda myths with a distorted interpretation of history. In Germany there is very little awareness of the enormous historical fault just before the Ukrainians as one of the most affected of the Germans of the European nations. In the mass German consciousness, Hitler’s war in the East is still seen as a war in Russia, even though the zone of hostilities, occupations, and destruction has spread throughout Ukraine, with no exception, and no more than 10 percent of the territory of Russia. And the total human loss of the Soviet Union of 27 million people killed almost 40 percent or 10 million were Ukrainian. Ukraine, like neighboring Belarus, lost the largest percentage of its population in all of Europe today during World War II. So it has been a long time for the Chancellor of Germany to honor the memory of the millions of German casualties by coming to Kiev and Minsk. As different chancellors have done on numerous visits to Moscow, Warsaw, and Tel Aviv. This would be an important step in restoring historical justice, understanding, and trust among our peoples. The Germans still have much to do to reflect on the historical truth about the role of German fascism, as well as Russian Communism, in the terrible history of Ukraine in the twentieth century. Today, we are able not only to expect, but also to demand from today's leader of Europe, Germany, as a comprehensive aid in protecting against Russian aggression against Ukraine, as well as any contribution to the European modernization of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u85	Thank you. And I would like to invite you to the floor of national deputy Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, may I have your address?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u87	I call you to order! Please, Mr. Wolf, take your place. Mr. Wolf, take your place! You're impeding the holding of a sitting. Mr. Wolf, take your place! [[B in m in s a l in]] If you don't stop the discussion here, I'll have to close the session. Please. Please, National Deputy Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Allow me to speak and respect the right of every national MP to speak. Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Last week, the Ukrainian government presented a project and concept of pension reform in Ukraine. In short, the essence of the reform is to increase pensions for those categories of pensioners whose pension has not been reviewed since 2012. I mean, if we're talking about those changes, they're, in the first place, and they're mainly about exclusively reforming and modernizing Ukraine's existing solidarity pension system. Can this be called a full - time pension reform? I think most people will agree with me that they probably don't. Instead, the full-fledged changes in the pension system of many countries in the world have allowed the economies of these countries to be lifted up very quickly. And I'm sure we don't need to invent a bicycle, and Ukraine just needs to take an example from those countries that have succeeded. And a full pension reform will be complete only if we make sure that we are in line with the reform of the solidarity system. Today, we often talk about why there are no cheap loans in Ukraine. For example. Or can they appear in a state where the maximum deposit term is 1-2 years? Obviously, for any economist, it's absolutely impossible. Instead, the accumulated pension fund's funds are funds that can be a long-term investment resource because they can be placed for a term of 20 years and in many cases up to 30 years, and they can be placed on deposits in Ukrainian banks and work in the Ukrainian economy. We're talking today about how we can borrow money from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for example, to finance the construction of Ukrainian roads. Why can't this cost be the cost of the Ukrainian citizens they're directing to the stockpiling fund? And why can't the stockpiling fund's funds be the investment source that would allow us not to invest in the International Monetary Fund or the EBRD, but rather to invest in the cost of Ukrainian citizens that would allow us to work in the Ukrainian economy? That is why I am addressing the government and my fellow national MPs when the time for the review of pension reform comes, and we must look at it in a comprehensive and systematic manner with the introduction of a mandatory accumulation system, starting in 2018. Believe me, this reform is going to happen, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u89	Ten seconds, but we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u90	I am confident that the introduction of this reform will be one of the most powerful economic drivers for the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u91	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Moseschuk. He was given the word of the national deputy, Galasjuk, and the national deputy, Chižmar. It's been six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u92	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished Ukrainian Parliament, colleagues present in the Hall! Today I want to talk about Poltavščina my family and about corruption, which from Poltavščina, and more faithfully, has spread from this room to Poltavščina. What I mean. Yesterday in Poltavapharma, in an attempt to bribe an officer of the National Police, he was detained as CP Director of Poltavapharma Valérie Prredko, who was the assistant national deputy to Sergey Kaplin, who led the Kaplin Faction in the PoltavaPharma District Council and which 40 million bracelets were removed from Poltavapharma only last year. On November 23rd, I warned about this by speaking at the district council. Unfortunately, we didn't hear. But the law enforcement has proved the case in a different way, and now we have two criminal conducts. Now Kaplin is running on air, through the President's Administration, and he's doing everything he can to keep him from taking responsibility, doing everything he can to keep him out of sight, and not tell me where the funds were going, stolen from Poltavafar's, where the funds were going from Poltavafar's, from the insulin, from the ones that were going to go to the drugs that were oncological. It's the people who run and shout, with the red panties on May 1st, who walk on the Crusades and shout, "We protect the workers and the peasants!".. And it is these people in laborers and peasants who steal money, steal drugs, steal from their health. Now he's preparing his suspicions, he's handing over Predek and his deputy to the crime scene. And there has to be a stop under the Criminal Procedure Code. The population of Poltava farm demands that the mortgage be no less than the amount of the money that has been withdrawn and stolen from Poltava farm. Another corrupt link from this hall reaches Poltavščina to my relatives, Luben. It's Lubnigas. They're gas distribution systems that are controlled by the Firtash-Lyowczyn group, which have reached Lubenska, that even the Partians are denied access to the gas distribution networks, members of the Radical Party, because our Party is protecting and helping us to switch to the alternative fuel of Lubnititepleno. In this room, people who have taken gas distribution systems in a bold way, they know the directions. They're now starting to essentially take out heat grids in the territorial communities. The example of my family, Luben, is said to be on the face. Why? Because they want to bankrupt the heat grid and they want to take it. Several times they spoke directly to our party members, members of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk, and they said, "Nothing, Firtash and Lvočkin are going to pass on everyone." So one of them is sitting here, with red knickers on Chrystec walking, retired people are stealing money, others are sitting there, in the Cloud, and they're privatizing, and, more faithfully, they're stealing heat grids all over the country. That's enough! We need to put an end to this. And putting this country in place can be strictly normal law enforcement, not the law enforcement system that we have right now, the system. Because when there are helicopter flights, and as a result there are zero exits, when we all see great reports here, and the genius prosecutor's office is afraid to finish the case, this is an example of what is a conspiracy between the Lionskins and between the Caplins. And by the way, today every Ukrainian can turn on the Inter Channel, the Kremlin Rup, and see how Kaplin will protect his corrupts, who were arrested yesterday for bribes and whom I'm sure will be arrested tomorrow. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u93	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 22 members of the President, signed Law 6212, which allows for a moratorium on bankruptcy of state-owned industrial enterprises by 2019. And 24 numbers in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine were already approved by the concept of reform and development of the coal industry by 2020. A coordinating council led by Kistion Vladimir, Deputy Prime Minister and invited to join the board of trade unions, all national deputies, experts. And to discuss, accordingly, the 2017 plan of action proposed by this concept. And what's proposed. There is also a proposal for approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' project, some questions about the further functioning of coal companies. And the formation of the National Coal Company, and the transformation of documents of a permissive nature, licenses, permits. Appropriately, and making changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2017 in the allocation of 800 million dollars for modernization and technical refurbishment of mines. And 200 million dollars for individual and collective protection. Transfer of social infrastructure objects from coal business balance to local self - government. And one of the important issues that concerns miners is the development and submission of a draft decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the amendment to the Order of 24 June 2016 (number 461) on the approval of lists of production, work, occupations, jobs and employment, which gives rise to the right to retirement at the same time on the same conditions. So I'm going to ask my colleagues who are willing to join this coordination council to offer their offers to trade unions to defend the interests of coal miners. And I think, then, somehow, we're going to work together to get our carbon-carbon industry out of the way, to shut down those mines that are non-profitable, and those that are profitable, we're really using the help and the MPs, and we're going to allow the government to develop, and then the miners in the future will have decent wages, and our coal industry will come out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u95	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka. Oh, no, I'm sorry, National Deputy Sergei. Jehora Soboljeva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u96	I want to bring society and parliament back to the issue of creating an anti-corruption court. In my opinion, this is the most important law we have to pass in the near future. This week, everyone heard the Attorney General say you shouldn't do a new court, let's make an anti-corruption chamber in the Supreme Court. It's a very, very sophisticated receiver, a very, very sophisticated fraud that allows people to be deceived again. Why should we create an anti-corruption court? Because today the courts are refusing to deal with cases of top-corruption that have been investigated by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. In April alone, 87 such meetings were suspended from the judges ’ guilt throughout the country. And that's why we need to create a court that will be the court of first instance, which will, for example, remove corruption from work as soon as the investigation starts, as it did not happen to Michael Hendowski, who remains the head of the Central Elections, even though he's already suspected of getting money from the Party of Regions. We need a court to decide whether to arrest people who are suspected of corruption and who can influence the investigation. I'm sure that's exactly what the court was supposed to do in the case of Nicholas Martinenko. If he was brought before a court to defend four ministers and not one national MP, not one dozen national deputies, it is clear that such a person could influence the investigation. And the judge has to make an arrest decision in such cases. This is not happening, not to mention the verdicts. We don't just need to get away from work, we don't just need arrests -- we need sentences when a person is in prison and their property is confiscated -- everything they stole. And that's why we proposed to create an anti-corruption court on February 1st. And the idea of the Attorney General to create a chamber at the Supreme Court is to create a so-called cassation facility where one can complain when all the courts are expelled. So Yuri Lucenko suggests that after three years, the Chamber would say, "Yes, indeed, things aren't being investigated, this is a violation, let's do it again." That's why we're proposing, as soon as possible, during June and the middle of July, before the parliamentary holidays, to pass the draft Anti-Corruption Court Act. Western governments are already ready to help us create it, and this will give society a chance to see that democracy is working and justice has begun to come to top-corruptioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u97	Thank you. And now I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka. Instead of Palamarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u98	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! Today the summary of the week that is passing, and this week the Attorney General stood here, and his report in Parliament was accompanied by unheard theater performances that Broadway would envy when helicopters from all over the country. On every side of the country, they were driven as if they were members of a criminal organization. This was the case only with a figure who fled Ukraine three and a half years ago. I wonder why today’s corrupters are not transported in the same way. And when this is all over, I suggest you read the 2005 news archive, how loud with the A.T.R.A. they stormed "Lux" Rinata Ahemtova, as they peared on it, and then it ended with a big fist. It's the same now. The Attorney General's Office has turned into a platform for making political dividends as a valid Attorney General, who will then use all these criminal conducts, his ratings, which he will earn on what will be theatre performances to do using the resources of the Attorney General's Office, the Lucenka Block at the elections, and the Lucenka at the election of the President. A presidential candidate who will be in the 19th. All of this turns into politics. And in that sense, it's totally immoral and illegal to turn the Attorney General's Office into an organ for making political dividends and total politicization of that body. In doing so, the real great figures of corruption, both past and present, remain the very conduct that remains in the Attorney General’s Office. Lucenko stood on this platform. I personally brought him and handed him over the arrest and arrest of Yuri Boyka in connection with Sergio Kurchenk's compressed gas. This submission was prepared by the investigators of the Attorney General's Office, the same body that is currently headed by Lucenko. It was prepared two years ago, it was blocked first by Shockin, and now by Lucenko himself. I got it from the State's Attorney's Office, handed it over, said, "Take it to Parliament." Lucenko took it and just threw it on the floor, like it was some kind of garbage. This attitude toward us Ukrainian citizens is a testimony to his nervousness: his conspiracy is exposed, and he has nothing to hide. Similarly, Attorney General Lucenko ignores the appeal he received from a figure of one of the most loud criminal cases in our country, this is the case of Oleg Seminski, the man who led the Naftogash mining company. This is an enterprise as a result of his kidnapping, and he spent three years in a basement with his hands and feet tied, like, you know, kidnapped by terrorists and actually by Ukrainian corrupters and bandits. The company went under the control of Renata Ahmtov and became the basis for the agreement between Ahmtov and Dustenk. Seminsky asked Lucenko to accept him. He asked why his case was blocked, why there was no investigator in the case, why no one was told: neither Rudzikowski nor Moldovan nor Salavatov. Lucenko ignores the matter because the matter concerns the highest officials in the state. And this is his evaluation as Attorney General, because he only goes where he's allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u99	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Igor Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u100	Dear Oksana Ivanovna, distinguished colleagues, voters! First of all, I want to welcome today from this rostrum all the students, all the teachers with the last bell. Today they are celebrating all over the country. And today the Supreme Council needs to realize once again that we have no right to cancel any social guarantees for our teachers, their hard work has earned it. Instead, I propose to discuss today the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Last week, the Supreme Council, of course, accepted a number of important questions. However, with all due respect for the subject of national sports or cultural heritage, these are not the most important questions for our voters. And unfortunately, questions that are much more important, much more complex, either fail or fail. What are the reasons for this? The first reason is that there is no real coalition. How can it be resolved? In a working group led by the Head of the Supreme Council, we have drafted a bill that regulates all the nuances of the establishment and functioning of the parliamentary coalition, and the mechanisms for the exit of deputies and the mechanisms for the calculation of deputies, because no one knows where the list of members of the coalition is so far. And our clear position is that coalition is not a one-time tool for forming a government. The coalition is primarily the political responsibility of the national deputies for the actions proposed by the government and for the decisions made by the government. The second problem in the work of the Supreme Council is that we don't have enough legislation in order of day, when we all realize that there are no votes to support them, but we are discussing this bill in the south, so we are wasting our time and losing respect for our voters. If there are no votes in the coalition, if the coalition MPs don't participate enough in plenary meetings, we're not only ready for the debate in this room, we're ready to debate on the Conciliation Council, on all the sites of the Supreme Council. The Radical Party faction supports those laws that aim at national security and defence, those that aim at social protection. And in each of the systemic reforms -- whether it's education reform or land reform -- we're ready for public, transparent debates. Pension reform requires our position. But it is necessary to raise the pension age, directly or indirectly, to raise pensions, to correct a lot of things to protect the interests of our pensioners. And we're ready for public debate. The Radical Party faction supports other reforms, and I call on colleagues to support them, to put them in order and to vote. It's also cancelling a small break in our meetings, it's reducing the number of committees, it's changing the principle of the allocation of board positions and other necessary reforms for Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u101	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Leonid Hamtz.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u102	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Pechersky, Solomonsky, and Shevchenkov district, my major constituency. Unfortunately, whether or not the cameras will show today's conference room, where I'd like to say it's half-empty or half-empty, but unfortunately it won't be true. If there's, well, 5-6 percent of the MP Corps, that would be very good. Units sit out of the various factions that are left today on Friday to talk to their electorate and to work according to their working arrangements in Parliament. Let's welcome those who are here, and let's talk about what are the reasons why we can get out of them. This is how we approach our colleagues, who are already being chosen by the people’s deputies on a regular basis. They sit in this room for 20 years, where they appear exclusively when they make an oath and when they vote for the Attorney General. All the other time, they're not in the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. And when you make a claim to them on this point, they say, "Boys, we've already counted with our voters during the election campaign. We gave them benches, Greeks, money. We've already figured out places on the list. We don't have any pretenses. We bought our seats and don't ask us any other extra work in this Parliament." Well, that can't be right! Thus, the Ukrainian Parliament has no right to work. The only way out of this situation is by adopting new electoral legislation. Open electoral lists are what all political parties promised when they went to the elections. And that's what we promised the Ukrainian people. And that is what we must do to enable this Parliament, the next Parliament, and all those who will follow it to carry out their duties properly. The direct link between the electorate and the parliamentarian can be provided with exclusively open electoral lists. Six bills are already in Parliament. We will soon lead them to this session hall. Clearly, those who are absent, those who have dug up their seats in this Parliament, will not vote in favour of this new law with open electoral lists. Clearly, individual political leaders are not thrilled to know who should be at the top of the voter list. Clearly, it is this person who will then have the right to be the leader of this political power. But we'll prove it. And we hope that the Ukrainian people will come out under the walls of the Supreme Hall to support this innovation and to ensure that the Ukrainian Parliament and its factions fulfill the responsibilities and promises they made in these elections. Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u103	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u104	Good afternoon! I want to ask you this question. Everyone remembers that I once told them that Kievenergo should go back to the property of the Chinese. I was told these are dreams, they're fairy tales, and Ahmeth owns Kiyevenergo. I said, "Ahemtov only owns Kiyivenergo." Kievenergo is owned by the Chiyans, the Kyiv community itself. I didn't believe it, they said it was impossible, but now the agreement between Ahmetov and Kiev is over. I understand that at DTEK they thought I'd forgotten about it. I remember. I am surprised that Kyivrada does not remember this. I'll explain why. Because there's no telling that Kiev, the Chinese have to get this property back. But it has to be done. What's more, I understand that someone in the KMDA might be tempted to do a business or some kind of structure that would be run by Kievenergo. But we understand how they run the Kiev administration. Kyiv is probably the only place in Ukraine that gives up people who are killed for parking. There is no capital city in Europe that will suffer damage. Well, it can't be like that, but it's like that in Kiev. In Kiev, almost all the trunks are damaged. And we understand that the next structure that they're going to make, which should be run by Kievenergo, is also going to be a waste. So what do I demand? Immediately, there will be open competitions, especially with the participation of foreign known companies, not any companies that will appear from Cyprus or from the Virgin Islands or anywhere else. It is well known that foreign companies will take this company into concessions and manage them in the interests of China and profiteering. But it's a way to make sure that the sneezes don't freeze, like they're freezing right now. Because we can see that when there were colds, people in some of Kiev’s apartments were almost walrusing, but they pay for the heat. That's why I'm addressing Mayor Klitschka of Kiev. That's my official address. On account of the fact that there is an immediate privatisation contest, an open privatisation or sale competition, but Kievenergo should not be owned by several officials in their own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u105	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Tetjan Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u106	Good afternoon. Aunt Osrikov, Self-Help faction. You know, I listened carefully this week to the Attorney General's report and the Prime Minister's speech today in Parliament. What do they have in common? Both spoke of the need for a customs order. In particular, the Attorney General said that the government must start exchanging information with neighbouring countries. This exchange already exists. Instead, unless the Attorney General knows that most of the cargo comes to Ukraine from China, which is not exchanged with us and does not provide information on the customs value of the goods at the request of the Ukrainian tax. It is therefore necessary not to simulate decisive reforms, but to place a customs attaché there who will handle these requests, as well as the Attorney-General, to carry out a demonstration of the punishment of smugglers, who today, containers come to Odessa and they operate in particular in the Odessa area. Behind these companies are specific names of specific smugglers. And it's impossible to make these schemes, to implement them without involvement and without prior agreement by the security officers of the Chief District Office and the central apparatus, without involving the State Fiscal Service B.B., the employees of other law enforcement agencies, the prosecutors, in particular, who are covering the whole process, simply impossible to implement without having to deal with law enforcement officials. This week, we saw a large-scale detention operation involving former taxpayers involved in the organization of tax platforms. I very much want the Attorney General to be consistent and carry out the same official operation with regard to persons involved in large-scale customs abuses. Because if we look at it just for 2017, there's not enough in the cut of each Customs because of their operations. Briefly on the most common schemes in their activities. The use of cover goods or the replacement of more expensive goods is cheap, the undervaluation of the customs value of goods, the underweighting of net goods by increasing the weight of packaging, and the use of an artefact scheme under Article 55 of the Customs Code. And it's just a small part of those schemes and also the court decisions that are being used today. Moreover, whether the Attorney General told the community who had recently been in charge of customs and taxation law at the Attorney General’s Office. He told me in Parliament that this person is being removed today, this person is involved in smuggling schemes. I want him to be consistent, and I ask you to consider my speech as a deputy, so that not only does the Attorney General release this person, but he punishes the same as ex-taxors who are involved in tax havens have been punished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u107	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! We have recently observed the Attorney General here, who has talked a lot about the shortcomings of the functioning of the judicial system. Instead, I would like to focus on the shortcomings of the law enforcement system. One of the most important functions of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine today is monitoring the activities of law enforcement officials, monitoring the activities of the police, the Ukrainian Security Service, and other special services. To date, we can say that such control has practically disappeared in recent years. That the police that the Ukrainian Security Service is now, in fact, uncontrollable organizations that may be stopped, are probably just afraid that they have suffered in Maidan. This passivity of the Attorney General's Office on the punishment of police, esbeušniks who regularly violate the law is the main factor that destroys our state, including on the most painful issue, the issue of Russian aggression. And I'm going to remind you of what happened on May 9. Yes, there was the same situation in Kiev as in Dniper, when aunts and police acted in harmony and hindered, banned Ukrainian citizens who were patriotic, celebrated, celebrated on May 9. This is nothing more than promoting the hybrid aggression of Putin in Ukraine. Which I will repeat is because the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office has been removed from control. On the part of Parliament that you and I, friends, have to deal with this and do it, of course, by abstracting the change in personnel in the GPA, NABU, there are two bills that will help at least in street action control of police, that is 5,700 and 5,701. They refer to the so - called branding of police, that is, when the law defines the procedure, which of the police officers, which form must bear the number. Because today there's total vachanalia in this area, today we see the same numbers of completely different people. Marking policemen is a practice that realizes the sad experience of Maidan when police beats, tortured, shot people, and remained completely anonymous. The adoption of these laws, the bills, is our duty to implement those lessons that we have seen the whole world see in Maidan to make it impossible for the police to be irresponsible. So let's at least do this little thing in the next plenary week and put them in the agenda and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u109	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u110	Levchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Shevchenkovsky district of Kyiv. Today, Kiev is on the verge of another huge affair, on the verge of a continuation of an illegal treaty with the AHM Kiyevenergo, with a construction company that was handed over many years ago. which was handed over many years ago to TEC-5 and TEC-6 which are owned by the community of Kiev, the utility property and the contract with which it ends this year. We see that over the last two weeks at the plenary sessions of the Kyiv City Council of Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko and his hand faction, two hand factions -- one faction of Solidarity -- BPP, another hand faction of Unity, trying to push the continuation of the agreement with Ahmetov, trying to push the extension of the cabal, where all the Chinese, the capital residents are totally dependent on the private monopoly, I'm stressing, the private monopoly, it's totally unacceptable. In this room literally a few minutes ago, it was mentioned that let's take one private monopolist and hand it over to another private monopolist, it's totally unacceptable. Because a private monopoly is harmful to the state, to the city, and to every Ukrainian. And in the context of specific Kiev for each cyanide it would be harmful if a private monopoly controlled all the heat supply in the city. And it doesn't matter what name or Ahmedov or friend of Ahmedov or Grandma Ahmedov or Firtash or any other form of Panamanian, maybe those who are in power today, President or Graceman, or anyone else, don't care what their last name is. What's important is that there can't be such an enterprise in private property, because a private monopoly is always evil. That's why I'm talking to all the Chinese right now. Kyans, wake up! Wake up, turn to your deputies from all factions! Write The Cliché! Go to Kyivrada! Pick up Kiyevrada! Make sure you don't get thrown back into another cabal for another 5-10 years to be dependent on one private owner. The city has to be warm. Is anyone talking about bankruptcy? Then I mention the city of Hmelnicki, where Mayor Alexander Simchisin is a freeman. Heat energy is profitable, and the lowest tariffs across Ukraine for heat from district centres, the lowest tariffs. This is what normal city authorities can do if they do not steal but think of the inhabitants of their city. So, kyans, wake up, don't let Klick leave Kievenergo to Ahmov or any other private manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u111	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u112	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Today, I was prompted by an answer from the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the question why Ukraine did not pay membership contributions to the World Health Organization during 2014, 2015, 2016. The Motivated one’s answer was not answered. The answer was classic: Guilty for all predecessors. But this could have been said about 2014. Today we have on the 2017 calendar. And I am very sorry that my question left the Prime Minister surprised, since the annual General Assembly of the World Health Organization was present from Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Suprun. While going to such a forum, it was necessary to bring information to the Prime Minister of Ukraine that Ukraine was in debt. As a result of this unprofessional journey, unprepared information has led to the election of 190 countries worldwide as director - general of the World Health Organization. And how sad it was that Ukraine found itself in a number of four states that had been deprived of voting rights for having been paid membership fees. These are the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Central African Republic. Even the state of Somalia, one day before the vote, received a warning, managed to pay its membership fees, and Ukraine, unfortunately, did not. The Prime Minister's answer surprised me, too, that this is not a fundamental question and that can be ignored. People good, we're talking about the international image of Ukraine. If this were a single case of unpaid membership in the World Health Organization, it would still be a semi - victory. Today, I have information that such contributions have not yet been paid to the World Organization, which unites all customs. What face does Ukraine want to integrate with world society? The second question is why such processes are taking place, and the answer is clear. Today, we have been promised health - care reforms. Who can ensure that they are carried out? Minister of Health Why is the Cabinet of Ministers unable to run for office as health minister for 10 months? Well, if that's how you stand up for Ulysses Suprun, if you agree with all of her steps, you agree that in 2016, 4 billion are abroad and only 15 percent of the drugs are gone. People die every day. If you support her, put her in the hall, let the people determine. You may have wondered about her candidacy after her actual dismissal for improper discharge of the duties of Health Committee adviser, so say: "We're looking for a second candidate." Where's the coalition? - the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u113	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u114	Volodymyr Aresonkov, 64th constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, this morning during my meeting with the government, I have not been able to ask the Minister of Internal Affairs of Avakov, so I would now like to see my speech as a parliamentary request. This is going to be about. This isn't the first time I've been speaking on this subject, but unfortunately, the situation doesn't go any better. And I would like everyone to pay attention once again to the issue of the effective use of our forest management, the state policy in this regard. And I would like to point out in particular that, unfortunately, the trend continues: the number of crimes, the crimes associated with our Ukrainian forests, is increasing with our national wealth. And today I actually wanted to ask Arsen Avakov, does he know the statistics in the last two years of the increase in the number of offences and crimes involved in illegal logging, in the use of timber smuggling, and so forth? I can even tell by the example of the Zitomir region. Over the past year, about two hundred criminal cases have been committed, many of them at the request of us public organizations; this is how it is actually investigated and brought to justice in just about a dozen cases. They were given the final sentence of a positive unit. This is, unfortunately, a dynamic. And law enforcement refers to imperfect legislation, which requires some additional very complex expert conclusions and such. So mass is the reason. But there's only one question. Today, I am addressing the head of the State Forestry Agency, who has been assigned the task of determining immediately what the state policy of the future should be related to our Ukrainian forests. Is it going to be a state-private form that what the state-owned woodchoppers are going to look like today and so forth? Many questions that are not answered. At this time, we continue to cut, to continue to export, to destroy our national wealth. So, of course, the question is complex. And today, I would like officials, who depend on them, to speed up their actions. I would like us, as legislators, to insist that a law be passed that will strengthen responsibility, including criminal responsibility and so forth, for crimes committed in this regard. Only with the public can we raise and resolve the matter. It's very serious, I'm paying attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u115	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Natale Royal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, June 1st, International Children’s Day. The decision to hold Child Protection Day was taken by the Federation of Women in 1949. First of all, the organizers wanted to protect their children from hunger and war. At this conference, they vowed to do their utmost to preserve world peace. At the request of the participants of the National Platform Women for Peace, I appeal to you, honourable national deputies, to protect the children of Ukraine from hunger and war today. Support the bill, which is the result of the work of thousands of women from all parts of Ukraine, and relate to the protection of children's rights. Draft Act (6063-d) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on ensuring adequate social protection for families with children and establishing fair social guarantees for children and draft Ukrainian Act (6510) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of children who have suffered as a result of hostilities. The main purpose of this bill is to protect children who have suffered as a result of the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine, the children of the 21st century war in Ukraine. The adoption and implementation of this bill will allow us, at the legislative level, to establish for children, including children with disabilities who have suffered from armed conflict, additional social guarantees, compensation and benefits. This will enable them to put in place an effective system of protection for such children, providing them with comprehensive material, medical, and psychological assistance. The participants in the National Platform Women for Peace are asking you to support the above-mentioned bills. And we believe that the first priority of the Ukrainian Parliament is to address the issue of child protection. Because children are the future of our country. I also want to remind you that only in the last three years has social support for motherhood and childhood been severely reduced. There is a 2.6 - fold reduction in state social support for child subsistence. Today it's $50. It is not possible to raise, feed, and provide a reliable education today. That is why I ask Parliament's leadership to put the daily bill 6063-odd 6510 into order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u117	Thank you. And the last speech for today is by the national deputy Sergei Evtuszek. Sergey gave him the word. Yegor Sobolev, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u118	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. We've heard this speech today from this rostrum that there's been a breakthrough in democratic processes in the country. And this is accompanied by some clones from parties that don't allow for party development and other things. I'll say that we also have a composition of CBC that works beyond the constitutional term given to them to work. And it's all for one reason. Perhaps there is no political will in accordance with the Constitution, since it is the President who has the right to submit a motion for parliamentary consideration, right at Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. We, the Fatherland, have taken the initiative to go together in accordance with the convention that was held with the agrarians, with representatives of the Ukrainian Farmers' Association to the CBC, to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum, or to allow Ukrainian citizens to sell agricultural land. And, in fact, maybe this warehouse that works beyond the constitutional term, maybe it could make a decision. However, we have a fundamentally different position when there are "sustainable" citizens who are again before the administrative court of Kiev, and it is this court that stops our efforts, the efforts of the Ukrainian people, the efforts of farmers, the efforts of the Fatherland in a democratic way to ask Ukrainian citizens whether we can sell at this difficult time when Ukraine is fighting when Ukraine has a very deep economic stagnation, to sell agricultural land. I want to address the Ukrainian citizens on a first date today. Despite being banned by the court from holding a referendum, I'm gathering signatures, and I'm asking every Ukrainian to stand up for Ukrainian agricultural land, to sign and not be able to sell this land, to give a signal and an impulse to the President of Ukraine, to give a signal and an impulse to the government that this is the kind of reform that could lead us to lose our own state. We can have a visit to Europe to answer that our country can be an agrarian country, that in our fertile lands we can grow normal organic products, that we will be eating with you, that we will feed our own children, that will be alive, healthy and will not suffer from various cancers. But at the same time, we can also send these products to export, export and invest in our economy the currency to increase the income and to stop this deep economic stagnation. That's why I'm addressing the Ukrainians, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u119	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u120	Put your signature on, because "Fatherland" collects these signatures to stop this megastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-05-26-m0.u121	Thank you. We've completed our consideration of the various issues. And once again, I want to remind the People's Deputies that the next meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on June 6th. It's 11 o'clock. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
