ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the session room. In a few minutes, the evening session of Parliament will begin. Please return to the session room, we have enough important bills in order of the day. Apart from those under discussion, this is also the issue of supporting cinematographers, another issue concerning Ukraine's foreign policy and the reintegration of territories occupied by the Russian Federation. Please return to the session room, take up jobs and work. I also ask the secretariat to make an announcement requesting that the Ukrainian national deputies return to the session hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u2	Colleagues, please prepare for registration. I'm asking you to take up your jobs and get ready for registration. Ready? They're coming in. So I'm asking you to register with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. [[16:08:32]] 366 national deputies registered. And I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I want to remind you that we have put two bills into the agenda for the afternoon, and after lunch, we can move on to their consideration. The first is draft Laws 7163, 7163-1 and 7163-2. This is a draft of the Law on the Characteristics of State Policy for the State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Dear colleagues, these are three bills, all the authors will be able to speak as well as the committee, but I ask you all to support the proposal for a simplified procedure. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and support the review of the reduced procedure. Please take up jobs. Ready to vote? Please, I'm proposing a review of 7163 as well as one and two on short notice. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:10:17]] For-119 They're not in the hall yet. I'll do it again. Don't yell, please, colleagues. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, please prepare for the vote. I'm proposing a reduced procedure of 7,163, 7163-1 and -2. Please support me, please vote on the reduced procedure. Please support, we vote. [[16:11:13]] For-136 I'll do it again. If there are no votes, we'll move on to the full procedure. I'm going to ask the third time the way I'm going to ask all the questions. And I'm going to re-supply for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:11:50]] For-157. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Mr. Turkinov Aleksandra Valentinovich. Alexander Valentinovich, I invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u3	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill is of strategic importance to our country. It creates legal and organisational conditions for the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, the full depopulation of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, ensuring Ukraine's firm and firm legal position in international judicial institutions, in negotiation processes, blocking any attempt by the Russian Federation to continue its aggression by disguised as peacekeepers. Mainly, the project clearly and unequivocally defines the Russian Federation as an aggressor state, and the territories of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk are occupied. It's a bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there will be questions, I will answer all questions. The bill introduces the notion of "occupational administrations of the Russian Federation", which, under the cover of self-proclaimed bodies, implements the temporary occupation of Russian political and military leadership. Activities in the occupied territory of the Russian Armed Forces. I'd like to give you a few minutes, a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u4	Okay, I'll add it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u5	The activities in the occupied territory of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, the military forces under its control and the Russian Federation occupying administration run counter to international humanitarian law, are illegal, and any legislation issued in connection with such activity is null and void and does not produce legal effects. The bill determines that within the temporarily occupied territory it is in operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u6	Please add two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u7	Thank you. The bill stipulates that within the temporarily occupied territory, there is a special order for ensuring the rights and freedoms of the civilian population, as defined by national legislation and international humanitarian law. The right to private property is decisive for all civilized nations. So the project is about physical and legal persons retaining property rights and other property rights, including immovable property, in the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, if acquired, in accordance with Ukraine's laws. The draft law sets out the following priorities for public policy. The liberation of the occupied territories and the restoration of the constitutional system on them, the protection of the rights of freedom and the legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens who suffered as a result of Russian aggression. Strengthening the independence of the State and ensuring the unity and territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State. The bill introduces an effective system of military operations aimed at countering Russian aggression and freeing occupied territories. Accordingly, the bill approves the decision of the President of Ukraine to apply to this purpose the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. It is established that direct management by all forces and means used to ensure security in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas is based on the unified operational headquarters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. A single vertical is being created to provide planning, organization, and control of defence and security tasks in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas. In particular, targeting and coordinating the activities of military and military administrations. It's very important what's behind our army.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u8	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u9	It is very important that behind our military and law enforcement personnel, all the benefits of the antiterrorist operation are preserved. To be completed. I would like to stress that the adoption of the bill will create conditions for the effective protection of Ukraine's national security, for the repression of the Russian Federation's armed aggression and for the liberation of Russia's territories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u10	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Siroid Oxana Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u11	Dear colleagues! I want to recall a few events that have taken place in the walls of this Parliament. I want to remind you of the event on June 28, 1996, when the Constitution of Ukraine voted in this room, and then, voting in favour of article 17 on the non-admission of foreign military bases in Ukraine, the Communists were required to vote in the "transitional positions" of the Russian Black Sea fleet in Crimea. Then please read the transcript of this meeting. Read what the MPs were talking about at the time. They said, but they're still standing there, but it's only 20 years old, but it's not foreign troops, it's just bases. They discussed how much money they would take to rent this Black Sea fleet. And only one MP noted that 20 years later Crimea would not be considered a territory of Ukraine. Unfortunately, it has only been 20 years, and we have had the consequences of this decision. I also want to remind you of another decision. This is the decision, this is a statement from the Foreign Minister's Chamber when he presented the success of the Budapest Memorandum. I quote: "For the past 2.5 years, we have worked hard on another principle for us: obtaining security assurances from the nuclear powers of Ukraine in connection with its accession to the non-proliferation treaty. I would like to point out here that no State that has acceded to the treaty has obtained such guarantees. The fact that we managed to sign such a document without exaggeration is unprecedented and a completely new word is in modern international relations. For the first time in history, the nuclear powers have agreed to provide targeted guarantees to a particular state." Then President Krawchuk noted that if Russian troops entered Crimea tomorrow, no one would.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u12	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u13	When Russian troops enter, no one will lead a brow to protect us. It didn't happen tomorrow, it happened 20 years later. I gave you these examples when with such a paphos from this rostrum, we were told about victories. And you know, in fact, how fatal these decisions have proved to be for you and me. I have a question: Does history teach you anything? You don't understand that any Russian scenarios are being introduced, you're not fooling Putin, you're fooling yourself, you're fooling your people. Do you not realize that until national interest becomes a priority, no one will respect us? And you don't really understand that in order to protect your people, your army and your state, you need real solutions, not simulaires. Once again, we heard so many puffish ideas. But in that bill that was presented, there is no truth, there is no truth. The declaration of recognition of Russia by the occupying party without defining the date of occupation is an empty word. This has no legal effect. Only recognition of the date of occupation will make Russia liable in the future to pay for all destruction and human rights violations. Do you not realize that we cannot separate policies regarding Crimea and Donbas, for otherwise we refuse Crimea. You don't understand. There's been a lot of talk here. that human rights will be protected. And what you can't see in this bill, there's nothing there, there's no procedure, there's no naked declaration and there's no reference to legal acts. How will these people be protected? We offer all mechanisms for the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u14	30 seconds, please, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u15	You know that we will only be respected if we respect ourselves and when we make decisions that are in our national interests. And what you're suggesting right now is that this is actually a re-licensing of the Black Sea fleet, this is a repetition of the Budapest Memorandum. Only true decisions, only true decisions will save Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u16	Thank you. I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Illenek Andriy Yuriovich to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u17	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Today is one of the most responsible days in the history of the Supreme Council of this convening, and probably in the history of the Supreme Council, and one of the most responsible days in the lives of each of you, the honourable national deputies who swore allegiance to the Ukrainian people. And today we have to choose whose side we're on, either on the side of the Ukrainian nation or on the side of the enemy. And when we say a lot of the right words, we have to understand that this is just a cover, and the reality is that in this bill, article 7 proposes to legalize the shameful anti-constitutional anti-State Minsk agreements signed by terrorists under the Kremlin's dictatorship. And this is a huge risk to Ukrainian statehood. Because these illegal documents can become part of Ukrainian legislation. You can't let that happen. And that's why we, Nationalists of Freedom, from the National Corps have prepared an appropriate alternative bill, which clearly indicates that Russia is an aggressor, that the occupied territories should have status, that any trade in occupied territories should be terminated. But most of all, we're clearing up all memories of the disgraceful Minsk Accords. And it should be understood that, if they are now going to talk about what the UN resolution is, and there will be a reference to the UN resolution, it says in that resolution that Ukraine should fully implement the Minsk Accords. And the Minsk Accords are amnesty for terrorists. The Minsk Accords are in fact not even federalisation, the Confederalization of Ukraine. The Minsk Accords are the National Police, which will be called the "Terrorist Occupy Team". The Minsk Accords are the destruction of the Ukrainian State. Think of whose side you're on, national MPs. Think about Ukraine. Think that this vote will be remembered by your children, your grandchildren, as you voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u18	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u19	So please do not make a fatal mistake. Because it would not even be a crime, it would be a mistake, as one great Frenchman said. So let's protect the interests of Ukraine, let's not give in to blackmail, no matter where it goes from the east or the west. Ukraine has to think with its head, this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the body to be drawn from abroad. Ukraine’s National Interests Are Above All! Ukraine is above all else! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u20	The co - report is invited by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Vinnik Ivan Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u21	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Work on this bill began not today but yesterday. In fact, the work takes place during three years of Russian aggression against Ukraine. And really, we started with pretty weak negotiating positions because Ukrainian negotiating positions were unfortunately destroyed by the previous leadership of a country that deliberately destroyed the Ukrainian army. In today’s world, based on the principles of power, in which the rule of law is finally or almost definitively lost, as the aggressive politics of the Russian Federation today, led by Vladimir Putin, forces Ukraine to account for this paradigm. So in 2014, when Ukraine liberated most of Ukraine from the Russian occupation after the Maydan victory, I think no one has any doubts that, for 23 years of independence, Ukraine was under Russian occupation and did what the Kremlin told her, we started to rebuild the state. Indeed, the Crimea and parts of the Donetsk and Luhansk region remained enthralled as a result of our failure to build an army for 23 years. Indeed, Russia has launched hybrid aggression against Ukraine, a hybrid war. She did not acknowledge her presence at Donbassa; she did not acknowledge the presence of her armies. At the same time, she blackmailed Ukraine that "if you declare war, you will remain in total economic isolation." Russian Federation troops could have ended up in Kiev. This is Ukraine's victory that they're not here today. And we don't have to say that we don't have any victories, we have victories, and there are many. Ukraine, the Ukrainian army, has evolved. Today we can move on. Today, at last, we can be at the level of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u22	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u23	To identify the country that committed aggression against Ukraine is the Russian Federation. Russian regular forces occupied Crimea, and Russian regular forces occupied parts of the Donetsk and Luhansk region. Russia wanted to take Ukraine completely and establish political control over our future. We said "no," said the Ukrainian Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, every citizen who supported the army, other military formations, and Ukrainian volunteers. Today we are adopting legislation, which is universally, I stress, globally, because the only source of authority is the people, in accordance with article 5 of the Constitution, which elects its representatives to Parliament. If we support today, it's going to be the voice of the Ukrainian people that the Russian Federation started the war on Ukraine, that the Russian forces are on Donbasa, that we have to take steps to liberate these territories, and then take action for their reintegration, depopulation, cleansing and so on. This bill establishes legal principles for the preservation of property rights for all natural, legal persons who temporarily do not control their property in the territories occupied by the Russian Federation today. We clearly determine by reference to the principles of the United Nations that we respect those resolutions adopted by the United Nations in response to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. In this regard, the Committee on Security and Defence, when considering this bill at its meeting, proposes, in view of the fact that, in part one of article 7 of the bill, the words "Minish Protocol of September 5, 14", "Minish Memorandum of September 19, 14" and "complex of measures since February 12, 15" should be replaced by the words "United Nations Security Council Resolution adopted in connection with Russian armed aggression against Ukraine in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas" so that there is no discussion of betrayal. She's never been to this Supreme Council since Maidan and never.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u24	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! The committee proposes the adoption of Bill 7163, submitted by President of Ukraine, Dustenk Peter Alexiyovich. As a result, the first reading provides a basis for taking the lead. Alternative laws have not received proper support. Once again, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine, Petr Alexiyovich Prashenko, the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Mr. Turkinov, for this necessary work for Ukraine, for this bill. Please support me as a basis in the first reading with the committee's revision, which I just heard under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u26	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Colleagues, let's settle this right now. Come on, I'll add three minutes in a minute. I'll add it to everyone in a minute and it'll be out in three minutes, colleagues. Please, this is the first one from Fatherland. The word “Sergija Soboljev ” is used by the rest of the world. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! I think what's happening right now reminds me of the vote in this same sessionary hall of Communist factions, the Party of Regions and those who were embezzling for a bill on the special status of the individual regions of Donetské and Lugansk. Legalized by terrorism in Lugansk and Donetsk, who were allowed to form divisions of the so - called national police, their courts, and their prosecutors. But most cynically, this is the proposal of today's committee to report on this bill. What do the UN resolutions indicate, and who prepared these resolutions? The resolution they referred to was being prepared by the Russian Federation for one purpose: to legitimize the Minsk Accords. Moreover, on the same day, there was a statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, which stated that the top of cynicism was by the aggressor country to submit a UN resolution. Is that what you want to legitimize?Oh, my God! Do you want to make changes to the law? The other one. Article 9, an article that foresees instead of the Supreme Commander taking his responsibility under the Constitution of Ukraine and not hiding for three years, as it was in common, we are offered the creation of some kind of ephemeral body, under which the responsibility is still unclear. More cynically, it is an attempt to legitimize a decree that does not exist in nature. Three years later, Russian Federation military aggression allowed the use of the Armed Forces. But it's a straight line for tens of thousands of our soldiers to go to The Hague because you're legitimizing that they've been illegally used for three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u28	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u29	in these territories, protecting their Fatherland from direct aggression. That is why our faction will not vote for this tip of cynicism that we are offered. We are prepared to support in the first reading an alternative bill in order to further develop it and to take into account all the most important points where the key things that concern Russia, the aggressor country and the military resistance that the President of the State, Parliament and the country can use in the event of a direct new aggression by the Russian Federation. This is the key to where Crimea and all the occupied territories of the Russian Federation should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u30	Thank you. Please, Self-Help faction, Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u31	Dear Ukrainians! Glory to Ukraine! Each Parliament must have several votes in its life at the time of its convening, where it can show how it votes and whose Parliament it is, whether it is the Parliament of Ukraine or whether it is the Parliament of the oligarchs. But in this situation, we're not talking about oligarchs, but we're talking about those owners that were sent here, very many deputies, unfortunately, from abroad. And today, every Ukrainian will finally be able to see what, in three years, every deputy he voted for, every political force that has matured. Every political power and MP who came out here on the rostrum called Russia an aggressor country and occupied our territories. Today’s vote will show. And, indeed, today was the secretary of the National Security Council saying so many words. The words self-help has been saying for the last 2.5 years: call war a war at last, call the invader, call the occupied territory at last. We heard them today. But today, every Ukrainian has the opportunity to open the law and read, and to see that tomorrow it won't work. It is precisely, Mr. Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, that you have laid down in the law that determining the territory occupied will be the person you have literally recently advised to release from the Armed Forces, Mr. Manzenko, the Chief of General Staff. I want to remind you that it was Mr. Manzenko that was one year after the war, after Ilovysk, where everyone had already confirmed that Russian troops had entered, where DAP was, where on January 29, there had already been fighting near the city of Debalts. He said, "The Ukrainian Armed Forces don't fight regular parts of the Russian Federation." That's what he said. Now you want him to define the occupied territory. He won't do it. He didn't do it then, and he's not doing it now. And if it's not in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u32	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u33	If this is not prescribed in the law, when the occupation took place, and what areas occupied, what areas and areas the Man will not do, you understand these things. You can't, Mr. Secretary, cover up a decision that doesn't exist. Prepare the President's decision, bring it to Parliament, we'll all vote and agree to use the Armed Forces. Stop setting up our servicemen. They're being jailed today. Today, this law gives you the opportunity to amnesty those who kill them. Unfortunately, our military personnel are not protected. Today you want to put, you're saying that you've prescribed how the territory will be liberated. Yes, "Minsky." Today you will bury our armies in trenches. Today, no military of ours will have the right to make a shot and take a step forward. Perhaps they should not sit there. Let the diplomats go and deal with the monetary issues. It's not the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u34	Thank you, dear colleagues, we all have equal opportunities. 15 seconds, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u35	Dear Ukrainians, it's not the Act of Shareholders, it's the Law of Capitalization. You can't vote on that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u36	Dear colleagues. Now, Mr. Maxime, I must consult with the hall. They just came to me. Maxim, one minute. Mr. Maxime, one minute, I'd like to consult. Just came to me by a colleague from Fatherland, Mr. Lucenko, who said he had registered another alternative bill the same, and he's demanding that he be presented here right now. His committee didn't look into it. I want to. The committee. The hall is protesting this. I consulted. Dear colleagues, you will add your amendments between the first and second readings to the bill that will be voted today. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be voted on. We'll all put it to a vote. Well, don't scream. I'm in favor of the hall, aren't I? Now. I'm giving three minutes to speak to the leader of the People's Front of the People's Front, the revered Maxim Burbak. Mr. Maxime, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, let's calm down and finally start working to restore the territorial integrity of our nation. The People's Front faction will support Bill 7163 in the first reading. The People's Front has consistently fought for the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, for the unconditional return of Crimea and Donbas. We find it unacceptable to have doubts or compromises about the Ukrainian’s right to an independent foreign and domestic policy. Our understanding of the integrity of sovereignty will be constant regardless of Russia, the United States, and the European Union. Ukraine must take a tougher stand on Russian aggression and show it. And your own strength. Request number one of the People's Front faction. In development. delete the first paragraph of Article 7 and the new edition for the second reading. We will not allow the legalization of the illegal signatures of Russian mercenaries under these so-called treaties. Second requirement of the People's Front. We insist that between the first and the second readings, we prescribe a verification or confirmation of the fact that the Russian troops were being withdrawn. Bill 7,163 should and should be complemented by the provision that the withdrawal of Russian troops, their mercenaries from separate areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk region should be confirmed by the President’s decree, which he signs only on the basis of the joint submission of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine and the Minister of Defence of Ukraine. This is the second condition of our voting for the project in the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Stop breaking an important law to restore territorial integrity! Let's work and make real decisions, not work out Putin and Russia's plans in this room. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are fighting for the restoration of Ukraine within its limits, let us vote in the first reading with the requirements of the People's Front. Let's delete the first paragraph of Article 7, and I'm sure all this tension is going to go down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, please add one minute to Maxim Burbak. I'm calling my colleagues from Self-Help. I'm not afraid of fighters in Minsk. I'm not afraid of you anymore! Let's go! Get down! [[B in m in s a l in]] And now we demand, we demand equal! Please. Dear colleagues, this is a democracy where now five factions have the opportunity to discuss in equal terms. Please. Tanya, please. Jura and Tanya, as chairman of this session, I demand order in the hall. We're going to the Rules. It can't be that the Self-Help faction, and I'm now addressing this faction, I've got three minutes of opportunity to speak in my position. I demand three minutes for the People's Front, three minutes for the Radical Party, three minutes for the Opposition Block, three minutes for the BPP. And I'm very much asking you to honor the presidency, and I'm asking you not to touch my chair, because it's incorrect. Please don't touch the wheel. I'm asking you, Max, one minute. And that's a disgrace! [[B in m in s a l in]] Look at the self-help behavior. Please note the self-help behavior. I'm asking you to step aside, step away from the lobby immediately. I'm asking Self-Help to act in parliamentary ways. I'm asking Self-Help to act in parliamentary ways. Step aside, please. In fact, today we have a parliamentary opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u39	Colleagues, I'm asking you to stop the fight in the hall! Stop! I'm calling a head-right break and asking the factions to come to my office. I'm calling it a break. Please come to my office. Stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u40	Tomorrow they'll all come out. The discussion will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u41	What about today?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u42	It will be continued.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u43	It's wrong for some to have the right to speak, others don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-10-05-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! Please be careful! I want to let you know that we have held a meeting that stated that the law that is under consideration removes items that refer to the Minsk Accords. This is a norm that would unlock the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that was the agreed position that I had to announce from the rostrum. Nevertheless, the rostrum continues to be blocked. This is an unacceptable situation in the law in which we have to recognize Russia as an aggressor at the level of a legislative act, and it goes against that position. I can't understand the logic of the people who occupy the rostrum today. In view of the situation, we will continue to consider the bill. But today's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare closed. I would like to announce once again, colleagues, the Russian Recognition Act will be passed by an aggressor in this room. And I'm sure everyone will be supported. Glory to Ukraine!
