ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the hall to continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin our work. I'd like you to register with the National Deputies. [[16:06:16]] There are 346 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We're moving on to the drafts. Now we're looking at the drafts in the first reading. And for your consideration, it is proposed to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase corporate governance in equity companies (registration number 2302a-d). The national deputy of Ukraine, Ptachnik Victoria, is the reporter. Please, Mr. Victoria. Mr. Victoria, do you suggest we take a shortcut? At the suggestion of the People's MP, please confirm the bill's consideration of the reduced procedure, please support. [[16:07:29]] For-74. Unfortunately, there is no support in the summary room. Please, Mrs. Victoria, we're considering a full-procedural bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I want to start by saying that I'm extremely sorry that when we move on to corporate governance issues and when we move on to business-friendly issues, in this room, unfortunately, I'm not sure that there are even 226 people's deputies that the MPs haven't come back from a break or they're still on the road, but the fact remains. Starting with Bill 2302a-d, first of all, I want to say that this bill is part of the reform of corporate law. It enables a civilised company to run, using those mechanisms that have been used strangely recently in Europe. You know, in the process of privatization after the collapse of the Soviet Union, when our citizens seemed to have had a lot of privatisation certificates, they were terribly traded for certain shares. We have had such a situation that there are many minority shareholders in many businesses at present. But their share is so low and so small that they cannot properly exercise their corporate rights. They don't have any government, they don't even get dividends. In fact, the situation that has taken place does not seem to be conducive to the development of such stock companies. The importance of this bill, which we propose, is also extremely important for the stock market. Because the vast majority of Ukrainian public shareholders are not really public companies by nature. Such Ukrainian public stockholder associations do not meet all the requirements that apply to such associations in normal developed countries. In the first place, they violate, indeed, the rights of the minoritarians, without paying them dividends or involving them in management. After a number of legislative changes, the process of regulating their activities began, but the public associations, in fact, cannot fully manage their affairs because of the excessive number of small shareholders and the lack of clear procedures for buying up their parts. In turn, minority shareholders cannot use their right to sell these shares in order to demand their mandatory market - price ransom at a real price. So this bill solves these very questions. In addition, the project will have a positive impact on the activities of the companies themselves, allowing for a reduction in the volume of reporting provided to the regulator, reducing regulation, and effectively protecting against raiding and corporate blackmail. I want to point out that Ukraine has, you know, signed the Association Agreement and made a commitment to bring its legislation into line with the requirements of the European Union, particularly in part of corporate legislation. In particular, we are talking about the relevance of our corporate legislation to the European Union Directive and the Council of Europe on proposals for absorption. This bill is intended to carry out these tasks and to bring Ukrainian corporate legislation closer to international standards. I want to say that this bill has been finalized, its first-line version, by the Committee on Economic Policy. The proposals were developed by a working group composed of national deputies, representatives of executive bodies, such as the National Securities and Stock Market Commission, which included professional experts and recognized corporate lawyers. But unfortunately, in the process of processing, the working group missed a separate position that we will propose to change by preparing a bill for second reading. In particular, the bill provides that the obligation of redemption and the mandatory sale of shares will not apply to private shareholders unless otherwise stipulated by its statute. I am confident that the standard should be read the other way around, and this rule should be mandatory for all shareholders unless otherwise provided for by the statute. So we're going to suggest that we correct it for the second reading, like the minor flaws that this bill may contain, and other technical inaccuracies. But it's important to understand that this bill is very important, that it needs to be adopted in the first reading right now, that we work on the second reading and finally regulate our corporate legislation in the way that it works in the European Union. And obviously we shouldn't let ours. failure to fulfil our obligations under the Association Agreement. We should not ignore with you the demands of our companies working in the Ukrainian market. And in particular, we need to listen, including to the business community that has united, and in the form of business associations, it gives us support for this bill, and it has repeatedly called on both the Chief of the Supreme Council and the members of our committee of expertise from economic policy to accept it. In particular, the American Chamber of Commerce expressed its support in the bill and, in fact, there are thousands of companies that work in the Ukrainian market and pay taxes directly to the Ukrainian budget. In addition, the corporate committee of the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine and the entire legal community expressed its position. So I very much hope that, despite the fact that, unfortunately, not many people's deputies have met for the evening meeting of the Supreme Council, this Hall will still be able to launch such important, necessary reform of corporate legislation, support our Ukrainian enterprises, support stock companies and allow European mechanisms that are already in place almost all over the world and in Ukraine. And it's the right mechanism that we're proposing. to introduce EU directives, allow us to protect both the rights of minority shareholders and to demand, on their part, a mandatory buy-out of their shares if they want to, and the rights of majority shareholders against attempts of corporate blackmail, which, unfortunately, is very well known to our Ukrainian market today. So, colleagues, I urge you to support this bill in the first reading, and all the other technical flaws, I hope you and I will work together on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. And, colleagues, I want to address all of you. Let's work harder, we have bills that are actually supported by all the factions. It's just important that you work harder. Can I have a co-op right away? And then there's going to be a lot of time, from factions, from other factions. Okay, three minutes to question the reporter. Please turn on the record. Rizanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u4	Good afternoon, colleagues! N.O.R.Rizanenko, Block of Petra Poroshenko, 97 constituency, Kyiv district. I would like to point out that this bill is very important in terms of creating conditions when moving companies from private to public. In general, there are two concepts in business about shareholders -- public companies and private companies. Private, where there is usually one owner or a very small group of owners who make decisions on their own. And there's another form, I'm not talking about legal form right now, I'm talking about the essence of public where these companies are participating in equity capital because of the placement in stock markets. We haven't had any of these places, but most of these companies have been set up through privatization. Many now have one - person owners who own, own 90 percent, 80 percent, and so forth. And we don't have the legal issue of moving companies from public to private. In all developed countries, such a possibility is foreseen. This bill offers such an opportunity. Proposal: To support the bill, to standardize the lives of shareholders.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u5	Thank you. I just want to say, this is a question, and then we're going to have a huge amount of time to speak both from factions, and from deputies, these three minutes are just for questions. And I give you my word for the question. Will you answer, Mrs. Victoria? Well, please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u6	Briefly, colleagues, I cannot help but support, of course, my colleague Paul Rizanenko. Moreover, I have not mentioned in my speech, but I would like to point out that the idea and concept of this bill in Parliament has been discussed for over a year. In addition, this bill has already been put into the agenda of our plenary session with you six times, and today that's the end of the day when we finally got to its consideration. And in the meantime, stock companies are really asking questions and really asking, why is this bill so much time in your mind, and Parliament is not responding to it in any way? So I can only urge you to support him today and vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u7	Thank you. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u8	I want to thank the team of co-authors for the initiative, since it is indeed necessary and necessary to resolve these issues in corporate law. But that's my question. Why you rightly refer today to the EU directive very often, but the EU directive specifically speaks of a threshold of 90 percent, but in the body of the bill proposed by you, a threshold of 95 percent is proposed when the right to demand the sale or purchase of shares is applied. Why is 95 percent chosen, not 90 percent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u9	Answer me, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u10	Thank you for asking. In fact, as far as I know, the directive is exactly a recommendation, and in fact, the number of percent it sets there, on the one hand, that it might be 90, and on the other hand it might even be another number. But the proposal came from, in fact, colleagues and members of the Economic Policy Committee, and it was taken into account when the bill was being finalized by a working group, along with experts. I think if you think the threshold should be reduced, please give your position. We'll talk about it, I think it'll sound like a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u11	Thank you. So the time for questions is over. And I invite you to report to the deputy chairman of the Economic Policy Committee, Mr. Solovy Igorovich. Mr. Victoria, thank you. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u12	Honorary colleagues, as well as the next bill, 4470, are important economic bills that address a number of issues related to the market and corporate law. We are often looking for external investment today, often turning to international institutions, but we are absolutely not counting on a colossal own resource that is accumulated in Ukrainian citizens, which unfortunately does not work in the Ukrainian economy today. If we look at the developed countries, today the level of equity in the stock market is nothing less than the level of capital that is rotating in the banking sphere. And of course, this is the segment that needs to be improved in our country today, and this is the segment that can primarily allow for the involvement of a serious domestic capital in the Ukrainian economy. This bill is intended to address a number of outstanding issues, particularly in the area of corporate governance, taking into account the preconditions, including the privatizations that have arisen in us, in our country and, in particular, in the stock market. In particular, the bill improves the mechanism for the acquisition of private stockholders’ shares as a result of the acquisition of a controlling shareholding. A mechanism is in place to acquire shares from a public stock company following the results of a control and significant control package. A mandatory shareholder trading mechanism is in place to require the shareholder to own 95 percent of the company’s shares. A mandatory purchase mechanism is being introduced by the owner, who owns a package of more than 95 percent of the company’s simple shares at the request of the shareholders of the company’s respective shares. In addition to economic premeditations and economic consequences, this bill will apply to many tens of thousands of small shareholders who for years have received no dividends for their respective shares, without any benefit from these shares. This document, this bill, if adopted, allows the issue to be resolved and allows both the shareholder and the owner of a small minority package to buy or sell their stock. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends that the Ukrainian Parliament adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u13	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. 3 minutes of question to the co-conspirator, please sign up for the question. Thank you. And we're moving on, fellows, now we're moving on to two factions from factions and from deputies. Colleagues, we haven't been able to get into the shorter procedure, but I just have a request to be able to look at more bills as easily as possible to go through the stage of discussion. So now I'm asking you to keep records of factions. Who has an important message for the Ukrainian people, please sign in. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I have an important message that I want to hear from each and every one of you. The person sitting next to the radio receivers, sit down and pick up, stock up with the cow if there is money to buy those expensive drugs. As you know, the press recently published a draft memorandum between the government and the International Monetary Fund, which offers to sell land, raise retirement age, limit a number of social benefits again. In particular, one of the terms of the memorandum is another increase in tariffs under so-called liberalisation, and a number of other "dragon" means. All of this tells us that these are reforms. I'm asking, what are these reforms that make Ukrainians impoverished, which result in Ukrainians wanting to take the last one? Eurocommission requires unprocessed roundwood to export, the International Monetary Fund requires land to sell, retirement age to raise. What will Ukraine be left with? No forest, no land, no visa, and no pensions, because the average life expectancy in Ukraine is 63 years, and we want to raise our retirement age by 70 years. That's why I want to say that the policy of today's government, combined with the Compradorian parliamentary majority that is being sanctified and the anti-Ukrainian laws, is anti-Ukrainian politics, it's a policy that leads our country to defolut and the Ukrainians to impoverishment! And so the Radical Party is offering an alternative to this inhuman policy. The alternative is economic growth, job creation for Ukrainians, poverty eradication. What does it take? First of all, a radical change in government economic policy and a radical change in the monetary policy of the National Bank. Instead of selling land and increasing retirement age, Ukrainian producers need to be given cheap loans, Ukrainian peasants should be granted state support and subsidies instead of selling land, the social sphere in the countryside, in the city, attention and respect for people of retirement age, and the main thing is to increase the income of Ukrainians. Only a radical increase in wages, pensions, and other forms of income will make our country a powerful country. Anyone who tells me that you don't have to raise wages to Ukrainians, I want to tell you that you don't have any idea. Because you can't make a strong, powerful, developed country where 90 percent of the population are beggars who live on subsidies. Thus, only a radical change in today’s politics will save our country!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u15	From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u16	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Indeed, an important legislative initiative that is called upon to regulate and harmonize part of corporate governance today. And I want to stop at an important point that is proposed to solve legally. This is the relationship between large shareholders who own 95 percent or more shares and small shareholders who own less than 5 percent. Because today legislation does not settle many issues in relations that arise between these owners. And the bill proposes to grant the right to demand, a procedure called "squeez-out" when, at the request of a large owner of such a majority of the minoritas, they are obliged to sell their shares. And it's also symmetrical. At the request of a minority that is very often oppressed by its rights, which is not paid dividends, which are actually separated from the influence on the decision-making of such a company, allowing for a sell-out procedure, when in fact such a person can sell their shares. And I'm pointing out to you that the cost of shares for which such shares will be sold, to buy a major shareholder, should be at the price of no less than that for which the majority owner purchased the shares, picking up the dominant package. And I've also said this in my question to the co-rapporteur that it's worth definitely lowering the threshold from 95 percent to 90 percent, which will be fully in line with the relevant directive of the European Union. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u17	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from Fatherland, National Deputy Odarchenko. He's coming to the rostrum. Turn on the microphone on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland Party has always advocated that minority shareholders be involved in the management of shareholders' societies, be able to influence their work and get their share. The bill proposes the right of minority shareholders to multiply by zero and to exclude them in general as a class in the equity management process. There are a few positive points in this law, I'm going to stop at them, but there are negative ones that force this law to be redrafted. First of all, the law that we are offered amends a large array of normative acts in a number of directions, not all of which are interlinked. The project envisages a more detailed settlement of the arrest order for bank accounts, including a hole that allowed the debtors to close the arrested account and withdraw the remaining funds. At the same time, while prohibiting the closure of accounts without the consent of the creditor, it is not considered that this is possible in the event of bankruptcy. And an unclosed bill will prevent the liquidation process from being completed. The bill also seems to provide for improvements in the regulation of the transformation of shareholders between public and private. The bill states that such a change in organizational form does not affect relations with government authorities and local self - government at all. All documents issued are valid without the need to reregister. But there are some pretty controversial standards that I was talking about at the beginning of the talk. So it's suggested that the person who has acquired more than 50 percent of the shares at any time would have to buy from any shareholder of his stock, and the shareholder who bought 95 percent of the shares would have the right to force those shareholders who remained to sell their shares. If this is the case with the first rule, any agreement, although the right to demand such a ransom for two years is not appropriate, the latter rule violates the person’s right to property. A person has the right to own at least a million percent of shares, since such shares can bring dividends, or a person simply has the right to want to be a business owner. In this very essence of equity society, each share is equivalent, and each shareholder has equal rights. The "Fatherland" party won't support this bill, because we think that the minority shareholder's rights are inviolable. And instead of demeaning these rights, they have to be scaled down in general, expanding and empowering people to be real co-owners of products, companies in the form of different stock companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u19	Thank you, dear colleagues. Now, the People's Deputy of the Opposition Block is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, the bill, without exaggeration, can be called a really qualitative initiative that will lead to a qualitatively new level of corporate legislation in our country. It is very dangerous to consider and make decisions on these bills in the context of populist statements by certain factions, such as a previous report on the alleged violation of the rights of minority shareholders in the corporate governance structure of economic societies. Dear colleagues, our legislation, if we are part of an international community, must be brought to the level of universally recognized international norms, European norms of developed countries. In the practice of corporate governance, in corporate legislation of developed countries, to which we need to approach, to which we need to bring this legislation closer, to improve our legislation, the practice of "squeez-out" and "sell-out" is foreseen. What's more, in most countries, "squeez-out" and "sall-out" are 90 percent and 10 percent, which is 95 percent and 5 percent. It's just the first reading, first. It's different. Changing the type of stockholder society and not having to prepare any kind of permit documentation is also a relief to the business community, it's a relief to the business life. What we're talking about right now is that we're denying the rights of minority shareholders, and why aren't we talking about the fact that the main raiders' acquisitions of companies were just happening because of minority shareholders? A minority shareholder does not take part in the administration, but it has all the important influence to harm the majority shareholder in order to paralyze the activities of the business, the current activities of societies. Why aren't we talking about this? We're only talking about the offshore part of the iceberg, and we're not talking about the very essence of the problem. To talk about what the bill is intended to do wrong. Because Scrooge-out and sell-out institutes are being set up, and the escrow-agent institute is being set up. So this is an independent person who acts as a guarantor, as an institution, a banking institution that assumes an obligation to monitor, to verify the documentation that is necessary for the execution of a right, is in fact a guarantor of the conditions of a right. Whether he has a commercial character or the rightful object is a service, it is also a established state-wide practice, a world-wide practice, and we absolutely need to implement it. And what I'm saying is that these are the standards we're introducing in post-Radians. This is really an argument needed to support this legislative initiative here in the hall. Anyone who has any comments on the suggestions made by previous reporters may make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those desirous of factions come forward to discuss the bill? There are no more willing to discuss this bill, time to discuss. Dear colleagues, allow me to invite a fellow MP to the session room, please. Dear colleagues, we are about to have a vote on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase corporate governance in shareholders. We have now, I'm sorry, this is a complete discussion, and I'm asking you to sign up for a speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm announcing a statement from the National Deputies for discussion. Please, National Deputy Sverk of the Peter Dust Block, we give you our word. Colleagues, I'm asking you to meet me in the session room, because in a few minutes, I'm voting for an important bill. Please, Mr. Sverk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the authors of this bill, because, in my view, they have taken on a very difficult and very important matter. When there's a lot of talk in this room about de-offshoring, you have to understand that de-offshoring can't be done by any prohibition. Deofshorisation can be done by making Ukrainian corporate legislation at the level of the legislation that is in this world and, in particular, in Europe. So I support this bill, and I ask everyone to vote for it, because for the first time in Ukrainian history, this bill introduces the concept of escrow accounting and escrow agreement. This is what is very often used in the account and Ukrainian entrepreneurs when they structure their business abroad. I very much ask everyone to concentrate and support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Rizanenko, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u24	I want to emphasize once again the importance of this bill, because it introduces certain mechanisms that, in our history of independence and in the history of our corporate legislation, did not exist, but they do exist in civilized countries where stockholder societies, their history has numbered hundreds of years. Let me remind you that most of the equity companies we have, they were created not by the decision of private owners of one or the other companies, but by the process of privatization. And of course, everyone wanted to take advantage of it. Of course, all the people were. Who, consciously and unknowingly, have become shareholders of the enterprises in which they worked. There are stock companies where tens of thousands of shareholders are located. But it may not have been their decision. In time, these shares were bought by either strategic investors, or management, or some, first by control packages, then by super-control packages. And today, in many equity societies, we see a situation where there's one shareholder, it owns 90-95, and there's 98-99 percent of the equity company, but there's one percent that's left, it could be a thousand, and there could be two thousand shareholders. In such cases, in most, in fact, let's say, minority shareholders, they don't have the ability to influence decision-making. And the majority shareholder himself, he would like to make the company private, but the legislation does not provide for the mechanism. Once again, I remind you that the former countries, the former countries of the Soviet Union, had a similar history with ours, and almost all of them have adopted legislation that allows a public company, a public stock company to turn into a private company, that is to say buy out other shareholders. And the main thing in this process is, in fact, a mechanism that would allow minority rights to be guaranteed, that is to give them the opportunity to sell their shares at a fair price, or at least at a minimum, the price at which they accumulate their control package or the super-control package of major shareholders. The bill introduces such a mechanism and allows minority shareholders to do so. In general, by fully supporting this bill, and the BPT faction will support this bill, I urge the deputies and other factions to vote in favour of this progressive bill, which introduces both practice and the theory of, say, civilized markets. I just want to point out that there is one point that needs to be taken into account in the second reading. It refers, not to the redemption of shares, but to the vote on agreements of interest, but to exclusions for private shareholders. The exception should be removed. In general, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u25	Thank you. Colleagues, almost all speakers support the bill. We've got two more shows, I'm asking you as much as possible. We can now move on to making a decision. Please, Lonely Andrew, Radical Party. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u26	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Three dead bodies in two days, 15 wounded at least, several wounded in the last two days in a peaceful Plain and in a peaceful Zitomirskish, not, for God's sake, the LNR and not in the DNR, not even in the front zone, but in peaceful areas on the border with the European Union. Over the past two years, there have been three shootings in the village of the Old Village of the Rachitnicki district in Ravenskin, in Olevsk, in Žitomyrščina, and in the Dubrovnik region in Plainskin. In fact, the local police are completely out of action on the spot. In fact, it is totally ignored by the power of this catastrophic problem in the state. Think about it, fellow believers, and respectful people who hear us, what is happening, and who are responsible. We now have the biggest export turnover per year of grain, corn, and amber can be even more if it's finally regulated by legislation. God has given us such wealth -- the sunstone of amber, most in the world of it on our Ukrainian land, on Volina, on Zitomirsk, on my Equinox. And what do we see? Billions of dollars a year are not budgeted, not pensioned, not budgeted, not new schools, not new hospitals, not new roads. Billions of dollars are sitting in the pockets of bandits and smugglers. The godless forest of Ukraine is cut off, just Martian landscapes. Everyone here, listen up! – you've all seen Martian landscapes when thousands of hectares of forests are being cut down, and you all don't care because Parliament isn't reacting at all. It is for us, fellow believers, that we have a responsibility. If the problems of amber are addressed by law, they are billions of dollars in the budget that should also be applied to forest reforestation. This is the end of these bandit bickerings, these amber wars, like the Equinoxes, are written by Volin journalists. But what is happening? In April, it will be two years since Parliament voted in the first reading of the law, where I have the honour of being a co-author with a colleague of the Radical Party, Andry Artemenko: the Law on the Extraction and Implementation of amber. Two years will soon come when the law is passed in the first reading. In the second reading, this very important law has not yet been passed. I'd like to address the head of the task force of this law, the first Vice-Speaker of Irina Heratschenko. Irina Volodymyrna, please tell me, when was the last time a amber task force met? If I can't remember, July, more than six months ago. And at that time, people are dying, and at that time, the state is losing billions, and the forest is being cut down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u27	Thank you. I just want to let you know that the head of the task force has given me all the results of the task force as a leader, because I want to tell you that this bill is not in the voting room today. But if there's such an insistence, we're going to put a whole block of those laws that apply to amber next plenary week. The only thing most of them don't have votes for today. But I am fully prepared. Please remind me. No, there won't be a line, there won't be a line. We're discussing another bill. Next plenary week, we'll put these bills in order for the day session. And now, colleagues, I want to give it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to make a point, I want to make a point: when I consider the bill, I, as a whole, have to stop the speeches that go wrong. However, I did not stop the speech, however, I commented on it and said that next week these laws would be set up by the plenary, so please remove your emotions and take your job. I give the closing statement to the representative of Self-Help Sidorovich Ruslan Mikhailovich, after which we will move on to the decision-making process. So I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall, the heads of the factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall, after Ruslan Mikhailovich has spoken, we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, Mr. Ruslan, turn on Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that there are basically two fronts in Ukraine today. One front is in the east, where we're fighting an external enemy, the other one -- and not on the iota is an equally important front, it's a front for raising the Ukrainian economy. This is a front for securing those business conditions, among which the corporate sector has a very important place. And the non-admission of the relevant bills is a brake for Ukraine's further development and ensuring that the real money comes into the real economy. I just want to focus on three important nuances that give serious benefits to, including average citizens. When we talk about the redemption of shares, I want to point out that there are, in fact, many post-privatized enterprises where, today, shares are actually owned by people who have either died or left Ukraine, and shareholders who own a significant 90 percent, the amount of statutory capital, are deprived of the possibility of further development of this company. The bill provides the opportunity to buy out these shares, to deposit funds to notary offices and to continue to move forward, to develop these enterprises. The reverse is when minority shareholders, ordinary average citizens who do not do business, and as a result of the privatization program they have become owners of certain shares, and they do not want to continue to participate in this fiction called "shareholding management" where they do not actually have the right to vote, they should be able to get real money at fair market value for the shares they own. The next moment, which is extremely important in terms of corporate property contracts, so-called merger and absorption agreements, is called escrow agreements, which provide a guarantee to an investor that will invest in the acquisition of serious business assets. That he won't be afraid that some hidden cat will be found in a bag and then another time some Ukrainian asset will become a suitcase without a pen. So in this case, this bill, it needs to be adopted in the first reading, it needs to work on the details that have already been discussed in this room today, before the second reading, to apply and to give a normal investment climate in Ukraine, which will allow for the inclusion of funds not only at the expense of the International Monetary Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u29	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take all the jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. We had a full discussion. In fact, almost all the speakers supported the idea of acceptance in the first reading, and I want to remind you, the committee's proposal was just a basis. And that's why we can move on to making decisions. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall and prepare to make a decision. So, colleagues, there's a request from the author to put the ratings vote first. I respect the author, although that doesn't change anything. We'll still go to the vote. But if it's very important to the author, we'll do the rating. I ask you to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. So, colleagues, I'm putting a rating vote on bill 2302a, which had agreed support in the hall. I ask you to participate in the rating vote and please support. Thus, the 2302a (deputy) vote. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:52:06]] For 256 We've done ritual work. Now we come to a decision. So I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on raising corporate governance in 2302a (deputy) companies on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote. Please support 2302a as a base. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Support, colleagues, please. [[16:52:52]] For 256 Decision taken, colleagues. And let's move on to the next bill. And I call on my colleagues again to make us work harder. And then we have a block of environmental issues. And we still have a proposal for seven bills to be included in the agenda of the day session. So I'm asking, the next draft of Law 4470, to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, my colleague. Please support the 4470 procedure, colleagues. Vote, please. [[16:53:37]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Poet Victoria Yuriyovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u30	First of all, I would like to thank you, colleagues, for supporting the bill that we have just voted on, and moving to Bill 4470, this is also a bill that deals with reform of corporate governance and is also a bill that clearly contributes to creating important and better business conditions in Ukraine than it is now. You know, as of today, our corporate legislation, which we have left from the Soviet heritage, is quite imperative. It is regulated, and it clearly establishes that action is needed, how shareholders and members of companies should act in their own private companies. It establishes a peremptory relationship between them, which, unfortunately, makes such participants and business owners have to structure their businesses abroad and apply progressive English law standards, for example, allowing them to dissipate, allowing them to negotiate with each other and allowing them to agree for the future on how they will decide what the so-called grandfather situations are when they, God forbid, quarrel and will not be able to carry out their business together. That's why we're proposing to establish an institution of corporate agreements, that is, contracts between participants, between shareholders in companies, and allow them to regulate their internal relationships at the level of a corporate contract. These contracts are not binding, but they are a purely exclusive initiative and an opportunity for the State to give to participants in private business. You know that this bill is extremely important, including in the context of that project that we've already adopted in the first reading about limited liability societies, because it logically complements the project that we're going to be working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u31	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u32	In support of the bill, professional business associations were also expressed, including the American Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine. But, at the same time, I want to say, I know that individual deputies are concerned about the level of corporate culture in state-owned companies, that this level of corporate culture today is extremely low and the mechanism of corporate contract may not be effective in such companies. That's why I'm addressing our fellow national MPs who.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u33	Thank you, the MPs have heard your address. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee. You'll hear your proposal in the discussion. The agreed position will be made by Sidorovich during the discussion. Dear colleagues, the report is read by Solowy Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, it's very nice to see that this is now the second bill that concerns the economy, which is actually about organizing corporate relations. According to estimates from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank is now in the hands of people or is said to be under a pillow of over $200 billion. This is at a time when Ukraine, with an extended hand, walks around all nations of the world and asks that you lend us at least one or five billion. This suggests that the cost of Ukrainian families, Ukrainian citizens, is unfortunately not working in the Ukrainian economy. Today, the situation in the banking sphere is virtually not allowing the citizens of Ukraine to move to the capital. The only source of investment for this moment is real estate. In the civilized countries of the world, other instruments, much larger than even the banking system, are the stock market, and there is a field of investment in equity societies and economic societies. Unfortunately, let's face it, today, the level of trust between members of any society, starting with private, limited liability societies, and ending stockholder societies, is at a low level. The very introduction of the Institute of Corporate Contracts provides an opportunity to organize property relations in enterprises of different forms of ownership. This bill allows billions of dollars to be invested in Ukraine's economy, which is currently being kept by Ukrainian citizens. The very introduction of the Institute of Corporate Contracts allows members of societies to agree on certain conditions for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u35	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u36	Some or other voting conditions, even though they may have personal belongings in the future, will enter the conflict zone. It's extremely important, I would even say, a historic law that completely allows us to reform the corporate law sector and the stock market. And today there is a great need to accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, two for, two for against, make the entry. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u38	Thank you very much, Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkaščina. Dear colleagues, this is, indeed, an extremely progressive bill that regulates Ukrainian corporate law, which brings it closer to European standards of business. Of course, the so-called culture of shareholders agreement or corporate agreements that regulate the relationship between shareholders of society is a really important step to bring us closer to European standards of business. But I would really like to point out on that warning that a respected colleague of the Birdsman was trying to say. Regrettably, there will be a situation in Ukraine where the state will directly or indirectly own shares in various businesses, on the other hand, to have a private partner. It is for this very moment that we have to protect, excuse me, the interests of the State and predict that, on the condition that 25 percent or more of the enterprise is owned directly or through legal persons of public law, there should be a separate law for the listed shareholders of such society or it could be a section of this bill. And in conclusion, I'd like to ask my colleague to really support the bill, because it's a megacrush for doing Ukrainian business in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u39	Thank you. From "self-help" through "Irina," he passes the word "Oleni Sotnik." Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u40	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, yes, indeed, this bill is from the point of view of corporate governance step forward. It's not true that he's going to solve all the corporate problems. It's not true that he's a billion-dollar panacea. But this is really a step forward and progress for farm societies to resolve certain internal at least corporate relationships. However, when this law was enacted, more specifically, it was written primarily in terms of more commercial enterprises, i.e. private - law enterprises. Rather, the bill does not, unfortunately, take into account the specifics, including the legal features that are in our country today. These are the characteristics of state-owned enterprises, enterprises that have a public share, or enterprises that have a public share and that have established appropriate legal entities, which means that the State has a direct influence or ownership of these legal persons. Therefore, we believe that the key risk of the draft bill proposed to us before the first reading is that if we accept it in such a way without any reservation as to state enterprises or legal persons with State or indirect ownership, then we get the risk of actually ineffective government management or the general dissolution of state property, which is not so effective today or is ineffectively managed by the State. Therefore, the Self-Help faction proposes in the first reading of the Adoption Order, in the first reading, to amend the text of the Act, I will read it: "If the State owns more than 25 per cent of the statutory capital of the legal person, and if such legal persons belong directly or indirectly to at least 25 per cent of the statutory capital of other legal persons."
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u41	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u42	".. other legal persons, the order and conditions of the conclusion of corporate contracts are defined by a separate Act." This means that a separate Law will be drafted accordingly, setting out how corporate contracts are made, and no oligarchic representatives in such companies will be able to abuse this instrument to gain control of state ownership. Under other circumstances, the faction is not prepared to risk State ownership and to vote in such an order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u43	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing statement from the Opposition Block. That's why I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and I'm asking you to let the deputies know that there will be a decision-making process. And I give the floor to Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, the bill is certainly as well as the previous bill, which is called upon to improve corporate governance in our country and to bring our corporate legislation closer to the well-known international rules of corporate governance. The point is that state-owned enterprises are inefficiently managed, respectively. In the case of the adoption of the Act in that edition, and it is accepted not as a whole, but only in the first reading, and we can submit it to the second reading accordingly, the ones with regard to the very serious risks of ineffective use of state property, so we still see how state property is used and managed. We see this from the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, we see this from the financial reporting indicators, which are periodically provided by national stockholders, natural monopolies. Thus, the idea that the stated corporate agreements will further complicate and aggravate the situation of corporate governance in the state economy is a little bit less convincing, to say the least. As far as equity institutions are concerned, agreements with each other. regulation of the relationships of members of limited liability societies, these institutions need to be integrated into national legislation, because here in this status we have the role of catching up. Because once again, these are universally accepted norms, and they are dreamt of in almost all countries, both SNDs, and Europe, let alone Europe and the world. And that's why, of course, we need to prove our level of corporate legislation and predict corporate governance, because this is the area that contributes to deregulation. And this area helps reduce court disputes and possible readiness by business partners. So, of course, even in what is proposed, we ask that the bill be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is more. Yes, are there still speakers? I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll give you my word in a minute. Rosenko is a minute. Sergey Melniczuk is a minute. [[Noise Nodes]] Rizanenko. I'm sorry, Rizanenko. Rizanenko is a minute, Melniczuk is a minute and Stoyko is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u46	National Deputy Rizanenko, 97th District, Kyivshina. I want to draw my colleagues' attention to the importance of this bill. As you know, there are several rights systems, there is Anglo-Saxon law or so-called case law and continental law. We live in the system of coordinates of continental law. In the system of coordinates of Anglo-Saxon law, all you've agreed to with someone else is right. We're in a different coordinate system where we have a very clear structure of the Constitution with legislation that we can't do. And in our coordinate system, for example, you can't speak out of law if it's provided by the Constitution. In the West, there is a fairly widespread institution of corporate contracts or so-called shareholders agreement, when shareholders can individually produce specific rules or relationships, relationships that are not prescribed in legislation, which allows them to have very flexibility and special conditions that they can prescribe among themselves. That's why this institution is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u47	Thank you. Colleagues. Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u48	It's very important to establish this institution. And I also point out that it's deofshoring. Very often, shareholders take their relationship to offshore just to make contracts. Implementation of the Institute of Corporate Contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u49	Thank you. One minute, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, this law must be voted on, as it was before. He's really necessary. But please note that we are now voting and proposing very effective things, but as much as we do not accept bills and various amendments, we need to pay attention to how the executive authority works, how the courts operate, how the black notaries operate, how the police operate, how the prosecutors operate. All of what we're doing, all of this work for the Ukrainian people, for Ukrainian entrepreneurs, for foreign investors, all of this is going to be burned by the bodies I called earlier. So I ask you to be consistent, and in all the subsequent decisions that we will continue to work on, to be also consistent and to make the right decisions so that, indeed, each of our bills will be for the benefit of the people. And yes, the people make us guilty of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u51	So, colleagues, John Krulke's closing statement. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Ivan Krulko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u52	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction is ready to support this bill in the first reading, subject to the fundamental proposals of our faction to the bill. In particular, the proposed norm for the inclusion in the Civil Code of a new article 246 bearing the 1 - badge is illogical, since the provisions of the Civil Code contain general provisions regarding the resolution of the matter of representation for confidentiality. In addition, the Civil Code gives the right to establish the right of a person to issue irrevocable trusts, and the provisions of the article govern the issue of granting a person irrevocable trust from corporate rights. Therefore, it is appropriate that the legislation’s proposed standards be provided for in special legislation on shareholders and business associations. And the second point is to define optional agreements. We suggest that they be regulated by the content of the relevant terms in the Tax Code in order to avoid different content of the relevant provisions in two different legislative acts. We've spoken to the authors of this bill and in case of these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u53	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u54	The authors confirm that my remarks will be settled when preparing for second reading, under which condition "Fatherland" is ready to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u55	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I want to emphasize first of all what we only consider to be the basis. But nevertheless, as far as I know, there is an agreed position to be included in the vote for the amendment that Helen Sotnik made in the rostrum. And I'd like to ask the author whether to sound like John Krulk's amendment? You put it in, right? Okay. Then I put to the vote with the amendment I made to the transcript of Helen Sotnik, and that's exactly what I'm putting to the vote in. Colleagues, please take up jobs, let's move on to making decisions. Please, are you ready? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on corporate contracts (number 4470) on the basis of an amendment that was made under the transcript during the speech, Olena Sotnik. So 4,470 is based on the amendment of Helen Sotnik. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. [[17:13:12]] For 264 It's a decision you guys make. My colleagues, before we move on to the issue of ecology, I want to remind you that before lunch we did not enter into the agenda of the day session. A number of committees have tabled bills that they ask only to include the day’s session in order. That's seven bills, that's five minutes. I'm asking everyone to focus, stay out of the hall. I'll put them one by one. There's a question of security and defense, colleagues, so you won't be ashamed of why you weren't in the hall during their vote. So, the first one is the draft of the Ukrainian Presidential Approval Act concerning the admission of troops of other states to Ukraine in 2017 for participation in multinational education. Every year we make such a decision to conduct international training, including with NATO countries. And in this case, it's just about putting it in the order of the day session, the honourable colleagues. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. 5636, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote please, colleagues. Vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[17:14:36]] For 222 Colleagues, 222. I'll put it to the vote again. My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking you to take up jobs. This is an important bill for security and cooperation with our allies. So, 5636, I ask you to vote in favour of getting into the agenda of the session and please support me, colleagues. Please vote. This is an approved decision by the President of Ukraine, please support. [[17:15:17]] For 232 Decision taken. Next 5,520: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of voluntary unification of territorial communities located in adjacent areas. It's a long-suffering bill. Again, it is only proposed to be included in the agenda of the day session. 5520 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Local government, the Vlasenko Committee. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:16:13]] For 208 No support. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children (to improve the legal status of services for children). This is the Committee on Youth and Sports, 5526 of the agenda. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:16:52]] For 240 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the mechanism for the collection of unfounded assets for the benefit of the State in civil proceedings 5577. Government Bill, Knyazevich Committee. Please vote, please support 5577. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. A harmonized bill. [[17:17:34]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation on the clarification of individual provisions 5395. He was posted on the site, everyone knows this bill. Thus, inclusion in the agenda of the 5395 session. Please vote, please support. [[17:18:09]] For 210 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it again, okay, on demand. I'm putting 5395 again, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. [[17:18:41]] For 226 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on the Simplification of Capitalization and Restructuring of Banks (5539). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Integrating into the agenda of the 5539 session. Vote. [[17:19:13]] For-166 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (5,240). Science and Education Committee. Entry into the agenda of the 5240 session. Please vote, please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:19:51]] For 221 Colleagues, 221. I'll do it again. It's an education issue, it's not a political issue. I ask you to gather again and vote. I am voting once again on the proposal: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (5,240). Colleagues, please come into the hall and support our Committee on Education and Science. Please vote 5240. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, please include in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[17:20:34]] For 229 And, colleagues, last but not least, Project Decree 4261. I was approached by the battalion of the Kulczycke National Guard, who, as part of the first battalion, went east to Slavyansk, made a joint decision, a draft decree establishing the Day of the Ukrainian Volunteer on the day of the official formation of the National Guard. They're asking us to include this because if we turn it on later, we're up until that day, and that was March 14th, we can't confirm this day -- Ukrainian Volunteer Day. I would like to support the inclusion in the agenda of decision 4261: the Ukrainian Volunteer's Day Decision. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions, perhaps even today. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:21:52]] For 234 Decision taken. Colleagues, or perhaps no one objected that we should give five minutes and now vote? No, it's not. We need to read it, right? All right, we got it. Ask me to put 5520 again, I'll put it in. But if I don't have a voice, I don't have a magic wand that I can make voices with. So, colleagues, I will once again propose to include in the agenda of the 5,520 daily session a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of voluntary unification of territorial communities located in adjacent areas. A cohesive general bill that allows us to contribute to the creation of a large number of new united communities, only to be included in the agenda of the day’s session. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, please vote, please support, vote, please support. [[17:23:08]] For 211 There are no votes today. Colleagues, one minute of motivation, Maxim Burbak, and we're moving on to environmental issues. Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! This vote has already shown the overall low and sublime policy of the Fatherland in the process of decentralization of voluntary unification of communities. As they tear up their shirts on this rostrum for allowing for unification, instead of failing the previous vote, by agreeing with us, with their head of the Preparatory Committee, Mr. Vlastenk, a bill from all the heads of factions regarding allowing communities to unite within different districts does not give a single voice. It's a shame. And all the citizens, all the united territorial communities, will know your public position that you are lying to people! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u57	Colleagues, respectable colleagues, colleagues, I didn't hear the speech, and I don't know if it was called a faction. I'll give you one minute, Sergio Sobolev, and then we'll move on to environmental issues. Please, one minute, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! I think the whole range of those who call themselves coalition has been clearly shown in this vote. Where are your 226 votes? And the citizens in the united communities showed during the election, where there were three million voters, that it was the "Fatherland" party that took absolute priority on party lists, and it was the "Fatherland" party that got the best result. Work and maybe people will believe you, but they won't believe you when you call yourself a coalition, and you don't even have 200 votes to make any decision in Parliament. The Fatherland faction will consider supporting it once this bill is finalized, and now we will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would only like to make this observation, which I have made repeatedly. I am convinced that there are a number of issues, such as security issues, such as the question of Euro-integration, such as the question of the support of our communities, on which we are not allowed to share by any sign, we need all of the groups to support Ukrainian citizens, and that's right, it's going to be a responsible position, not politics. I'm pretty sure we'll be able to put it into the order of the day on Thursday after work. Colleagues, so let's move on to environmental policy. I'm asking you to get the reporters ready. The first question is the Ukrainian Act on Strategic Environmental Assessment, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (3259). I would like to remind you that these bills are being considered by special procedure when there is a reporter, a co-reporter, and then an immediate vote. Therefore, I invite you now to the report of President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Artura Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 4 October 2016 the Ukrainian Strategic and Environmental Assessment Act (No. 3259) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The law that came to the signature provided for a settlement of relations in the field of strategic environmental assessment of government planning projects. Such an assessment is envisaged as a mandatory stage in the development, approval, and execution of State planning documents, in addition to financial and budgetary documents, as well as documents intended solely for the handling of defence or emergency needs. This law defines the objects of such an assessment, which are state planning projects in specific areas of activity, which will provide for the implementation of activities for which an environmental impact assessment is provided by legislation. And draft government planning documents that require assessments based on the likely impact on areas, natural-command and environmental networks. In view of the above, it should be noted that the different approaches proposed by law to the definition of the sphere and the subject of regulation will complicate the state planning process, which will negatively affect the development of a comprehensive system of socio-economic development forecasting and programming documents for Ukraine, separate economic and administrative units. It also provides for the possibility of referring draft documents to those that do not need a strategic environmental assessment, but there are no clear criteria for referring to such documents. This may result in arbitrary application of the provisions of the law when ratings are subject to documents that are not part of the financial and budgetary documents but are directly linked to the budgetary process, but are not subject to documents that have a significant impact on the state of the environment and are only directly related to the provision of defence and civil protection. It should be noted that the law does not contain effective mechanisms for taking account of public comments and proposals made by the public and executive authorities in the public debate process and consultations with executive bodies, which do not meet Ukraine's international obligations under the Strategic and Environmental Assessment Protocol to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context. In addition, most laws are declarative and do not fully comply with other legislative acts. And the proposed approach to settling relations in the field is not in line with the principle of legal certainty as part of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. In view of the above, the legal procedure for strategic and environmental assessment in the design, approval and implementation of State planning documents needs to be clarified by taking into account the observed observations and international commitments of Ukraine in the area of environmental impact assessments. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u61	Thank you. Colleagues, I invite you to the report of the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please report in a concise manner, and let us proceed to the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u62	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Mr. Head! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster reviewed the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 October 2016. The President's proposals are made in the form of comments that justify the inability to sign the law, and a general conclusion is made that the law cannot be signed and that it must be worked out in the light of the comments made. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it appropriate to accept the comments made on the re-examination of the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office points out that, according to the requirements of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President's proposals for reconsideration of the law should not only be motivated but also properly formulated for their vote in the Supreme Council. From the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were no conclusions on the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Given that the comments made by the President of Ukraine are not properly formulated in accordance with article 132 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the Committee is not in a position to reach conclusions on the appropriateness of accepting or rejecting proposals in the form of a comparative table. At the same time, the Committee noted that, taking into account the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the proposals made by the National Deputies of the Committee during the discussion, the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act should be considered and formulated by the Committee in the drafting of the law. In this regard, the committee does not support the re-admission of the law as a whole — overcoming the veto without further development. Given the relevance of the social and international significance of the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment and the proposal by the President of Ukraine for its development, following the provisions of chapter 23 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee proposes the following to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Strategic Environmental Assessment Act, returned with proposals by the President of Ukraine, has been considered to refer to the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, our main committee. In other words, dear colleagues, I ask that we actually conduct a technical vote that we would now forward this bill, which is extremely important for Ukraine, to our committee for work, where we will listen and carefully consider both the President's proposals, and the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and the proposals of other national deputies, ministries and departments, and intelligence, and we will come up with a consensus decision, a consensus solution that we are voting on, I hope in February during the next plenary sessions. In principle, we already have some agreed positions. We are ready on the committee to work quickly and qualitatively on a consensus bill. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask your attention and now vote in favour of bringing this bill back to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u63	So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I would like to point out that there is an agreed position for both the President's representative and the committee to vote that we should send to the committee for work. Without that, we will not be able to accept this law. Remember, Ukraine's Strategic Environmental Assessment Act had full support in the hall, and all the factions supported it. Now we're going to let the committee process it as quickly as possible and bring it to our consideration. So I'm very, very sorry, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to unite, come into the hall, take up jobs -- and support the position of the committee, colleagues. Please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking the national MPs. This is a question of ecology, which apparently unites everyone, colleagues. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the Ukrainian Act on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the President's proposals of 28.10.2016 (number 3259) to send to the committee for further work. Colleagues, please vote. Please support the committee's proposal. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:35:37]] For 201 Colleagues, I'll be back in a moment. I ask everyone to concentrate as much as possible. This is a question supported by all the factions involved in the discussion, colleagues. Colleagues, what's the motivation here? In order for this bill to be considered, we need to send it to the committee. Do you vote in favour? They're voting for it. There are 10 votes missing. Please, Rybchin, one minute, with a motive, please. And I ask you all to come into the hall, and invite all the deputies into the hall. Please, Rybchin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u64	Dear coalition colleagues, I'd like to address you. The issue of these laws, it is very important for Ukraine not only because it is the country's ecology and prestige, but because against us, as against the country of the Energy Community, which we are a participant, has opened a non-compliance procedure that will threaten us with the procedure of infraingement, that is, not the correspondingity of our European legislation, there are clearly defined terms when we have to implement it. So in two months, if we don't just vote back to the committee, we don't take back from the committee and we don't take these laws in general, we're going to have very serious problems with the European community, even before there's fines, sanctions and other things, like we're going to take a vote. So we need to get this back to the committees, work on the committee, the only version that's going to count everyone, and then vote on it in the Supreme Council Hall. This is very serious, I ask you, coalition colleagues, to support this bill, because I see how you pulled the cards when you voted in favour of this bill, trying to crash. Let's vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u65	So, colleagues, I'm now voting on the proposal to return to the committee's proposal. So, colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Minister, do you support this proposal? Please, 30 seconds, 30 seconds, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u66	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies, we actually support the position on behalf of the government expressed by the Committee. Please direct this bill for further work. I would like to say, for example, that the Ministry of Nature worked with other ministries. And we have a ready text that we and the committee can prepare very quickly and move to the hall, because the vote is already essentially. I would like to point out that today's vote provides an opportunity to preserve the possibility of adopting this law. And also, national MPs, please note that a case of investigation has begun against Ukraine by the Energy Community of failure to fulfil its obligations. We ratified an international treaty last year to ratify the Strategic Environmental Assessment Protocol. This and our commitments, we should look like a worthy partner. And so I ask you to return to the committee so that a quality new document can be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u67	So, colleagues, I'm putting the first vote back to the committee's proposal, 3259, the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:39:34]] For 204 No voices. Colleagues, if there is no support now, the bill will be rejected simply. If we don't go back now, the bill will be rejected. This will be a serious and international risk for our nation. I'll make another offer to come back. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Once again, I propose to go back to the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the President's proposals (from 28.10.2016, number 3259). I'd like your support, colleagues. And please vote. None of them were opposed. They were all in favor. Please unite and vote. So back to 3259 please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:41:18]] For 211 Colleagues, please, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. 30 seconds we're waiting. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I'd like to say that now, if there are no votes, Bill 3259 will be rejected. I'll put it back, if there are no votes, it'll be rejected. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. I once again put the motion to return to the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment with proposals by the President of Ukraine (3259). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:43:47]] For 214 The decision is not made. Ukraine's Strategic Environmental Assessment Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, has been rejected. So, colleagues, at the request of the Presidential Representative and the chairman of the committee, the next Ukrainian Law 2009a is asked to postpone consideration. And so we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of pralis under the Framework Convention on the Protection and Development of Carpathians (No. 4480). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Please. [[17:44:49]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Igor Viktorovich. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is on the proposal for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of pralis under the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of the Carpathians. Now there are about 50,000 hectares of pralis in the Ukrainian Carpathians, of which 30,000 hectares are in the natural reserve and about 20,000 are in the agricultural forests. The complete absence of legislation on the protection of pralis in Ukrainian legislation has led to rapid and barbaric destruction not only in farm forests but also in PPP facilities, in reserves, in national natural parks, in regional landscape parks, in orders, in protected ceremonies, and even in the buffer zone of UNESCO’s international heritage. The bill is aimed at fulfilling Ukraine’s numerous international obligations, including the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians, and the Protocol on the Permanent Management of Forests to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians, part of the protection of the pralis. The bill proposes to amend the Forest Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Nature and Command Fund. The law is supported by a committee of professionals and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration recommends that it be reviewed and adopted in the first reading. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u69	Thank you. Welcome to the report of Dziblik Pavel Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u70	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You have before you a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of pralis according to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathian Republic (Registration No. 4480, dated 24.06.2016), which has been finalized by the National Deputies of the Ukraine of Lucenko, One and Others. The bill, mentioned in the Explanatory Note to it, is aimed at implementing the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians and the Protocol on the Permanent Management of Forests and the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of the Carpathians in the Pralis. The bill proposes to amend the Forest Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Natural Protection Fund. In support of the idea of implementing a mechanism for the protection of the pralis, the Committee on Environmental Policy, the use of nature, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster make warnings about what. the adoption of pralis, since it is new to existing legislation. It is important to define it by setting up a list of criteria, features, and so on. Compliance with the standard-setting technique should ensure that the term “pralises” is separated and that it is clearly defined in the legal field. In accordance with the rules governing the drafting of laws and the basic requirements of the legislative technique, the definition of terms should correspond to the content contained in the official business language, special sciences and current legislation. So the Chief Scientific and Expert Office makes a number of comments and proposes to be based on further consideration of the observations. The Anti-Corruption Committee notes that there are no corruption factors in the draft act. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill has an impact on the budget indicators and also needs to be clarified and put into effect on a maintenance basis. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u71	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u72	The committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at the meeting decided that the results of the first reading should be based. So I propose to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u73	Thank you, colleagues. Please record: two for, two for against, please. Please, Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u74	The Self-Help faction supports the adoption of the bill and proposes to vote for it as soon as possible while there are votes in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u75	Thank you. Skuratovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u76	Haulyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u77	He's handing over Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u78	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Do you and I live in the parliamentary-presidential Republic? A recent article on European, Euro-Atlantic integration by Vice-Prime Minister Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze has been published. The positions she's taking in her interview, they're about the roundwood forest. They do not respond to reality and do not respond to the interests of Ukraine. First, the vice-premier claims that the moratorium on the export of roundwood, which you and I have supported in this room, is acting as a Ukrainian law, that it contradicts the World Trade Organization Agreement. But that's not true, the moratorium fits the agreement, because there's a number of possible exceptions that it's temporarily non-discriminatory. Moreover, the contradiction of the WTO Act can only be established through a special procedure of the WTO, not by the country's vice-premier, especially in such a disgraceful order. Second, the vice-premier claims that the moratorium is not working, does not benefit the taps. That's not true. The moratorium is working. Even while it's working, it's hundreds of millions of additional investments, it's an extra budget coming, it's new jobs for Ukrainians, it's worth living in all of Ukraine's regions to those who work in this field. And thirdly, the vice-premier states that 600 million euros offered by the European Union is not a loan, and this is an uncredited macro-financial aid. That's not true, because I can show you the credit agreements that are signed between Ukraine and the European Union, which is a loan that will have to be returned to the currency in 15 years at most. Let us therefore strive not only to enact the right laws but to enforce them in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, in the interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u79	Thank you. Ever since the B.P.P. Yes, from the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo, one minute and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u80	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, of course, this bill "The People's Front" will be supported. But at the same time, I'm going to ask you on behalf of the People's Front to put forward a later draft of Decree 4261, which we put in order of the day's session for the establishment of Ukrainian Volunteer Day, by negotiating with everyone, and you saw in the voting, all in favour, all in favour of this decree. So please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u81	Thank you. If there's room will, I'll set it up. One minute, Packian, and we'll go to the vote. Please, it's from Fatherland, isn't it? Everyone, please enter the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u82	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Guys, I'm going to give you just one statistic on cutting out our pralis. Ten Carpathian orders and reserves have cut out about 1,000 acres [800 ha] of pralis during the past 10 years. Užan National Park: 121 hectares have been cut down in the last 10 years. 2016 Another 160 hectares are scheduled to be cut out. In the Skolowski Beskid National Park: 10 hectares of pralis have been cut out in the last 10 years. In the Orders of the Count, Bradulski was cut 10 to 12 percent of pralis in 10 years, and many more can be called numbers. Only economic sanctions, if we set up, can we stop this cut of these pralis. I ask you to support this bill, because it is the main one. Let's stop the mass deforestation and turn our faces back to nature and turn our faces back to what made us. Thank you all for your attention. The BP faction will support and call on all national MPs to stop the pralis-making saviour and vote on the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u83	Thank you. Ever since Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u84	Alexy Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. This bill really needs to be supported, like all environmental laws. Ukraine's rating of countries is first in the lives of people from air pollution, and these bills need to be supported. Secondly, it is a disgrace that the coalition failed the bill and did not submit to the committee a bill on strategic environmental assessment. And I urge all environmentally conscious activists to look at how the bill voted before this and what faction did not add votes. And thirdly, from the Eurooptimists IFF for a single faction that is very concerned about deforestation. Yeah, there's a lot of people in the Eurooptimists MFF who don't support the moratorium either. But we're always in dialogue, we're always in constructive dialogue, and we don't use the language of hostility. That is what our statement is about, not how we love the country, whether we do not love the country. Don't use hostile language, let's have a discussion, let's make politics different. We're against "tamping," we're against "tamping" politics and individual politicians. That's what this is about. And calling people whatever down they are is unfair and it's wrong. Down are normal people, it's a genetic anomaly. And do not use those words to anyone. In the Fatherland faction, there's a lot of claims to government, but we always do.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u85	Colleagues, we can move on to the decision-making process, the discussion is closed. I very much ask all the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. During the discussion, all speakers expressed support for the bill. There's general support, all you have to do is invite all the heads of the factions of the deputies to the hall. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. I'm asking you to maximize your special warehouse. So can we move on to making a decision, colleagues? Let's go. Colleagues, please prepare. I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on protection of pralis in accordance with the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of Carpathian (No. 4480) on the basis of a committee, a colleague. Please vote, please support 4,480 as a basis. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[17:57:31]] For 235 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention. There was a request from our volunteers that we now vote on the draft decree for establishing Ukrainian Volunteer Day. We've got five minutes left. Can we vote? Colleagues, then I ask you to remain in your seats, colleagues. I really am. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize that this is the Ukrainian Volunteer's Day Decision, which all of these heroes have in common. I'm a reporter here, and I'm asking you to vote in favour of a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support, please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:58:23]] For 197 Colleagues, 197. I'll report as the lead reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-01-17-m1.u86	It sets out a day without any budget loss, but it calls for honoring the day of the volunteer, all those volunteers who went to the front and became the ideological foundation of the Ukrainian army that gave us the spirit to win, that and the Kulczytsky battalion, that and Azov, that and Idar, that and dozens of other battalions that were formed on a voluntary basis, that's setting Volunteer Day a symbolic date, it's going to be a short time, it's going to be the third anniversary of this event. I ask everyone to vote and support, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the bill establishing Ukrainian Volunteer Day (number 4261) as a whole, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take the seats of all deputies, and I'm asking you to support 42. Donbas, Peacekeeper, this is Dnipro, one of the first battalions. Colleagues, all volunteers, all who formed the ideological foundation of the army. Please support, please vote, Volunteer Day in Ukraine, symbolically important date. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. In total, 4261. [[18:00:01]] For 222 Three votes. I'm asking you to come to the hall, colleagues. I can see we didn't make it. I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall, colleagues. This is an important symbolic vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to take up employment in a disciplined manner. Colleagues, this is honor to our heroes and honor to our heroes. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Mr. Secretary, I ask you not to distract the deputies during the vote. I ask you to take up your jobs and take part in the vote. So I'm going to go back to the 4261 vote. I ask everyone to vote for the return to the vote. Please support, please vote, colleagues, please. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues, all disciplined. [[18:01:08]] For 231 So we're back: 231 is for. And I'm putting again the Ukrainian Volunteer's Day Decision 4261 as a whole. Please vote. Please back up, fellows! Let's vote, Nadia. Vote, please. Vote, fellows! [[18:01:35]] For 231 It's been decided. Glory to Ukraine! Congratulations to our heroes, we've given them the respect they need today. Thank you, colleagues, for a hard but very fruitful day. Today we have been able to produce a huge number of important drafts. Time's up. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., please gather in the hall to continue our work. Thank you, colleagues. See you tomorrow.
