ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u1	Good morning, company! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u2	So, colleagues, please prepare for the registration and please conduct the registration, colleagues. Let's register. [[10:04:03]] 357 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues, Elena Volodymyrovna Ledovsky. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Olga Valerian of Chervakov. Welcome to Ola's birthday. [[Applause]] Tarasa Romanovich Kozaka. [[Applause]] We welcome all our colleagues on their birthdays. And I would like to explain immediately the logic of today’s agenda. So, colleagues, pay attention! Today, as you know, we had very fundamental bills. It's about the electricity market and the Constitutional Court. In one of those laws, 900 rights. The second and a half thousand rights. Yesterday, after a discussion with two committee heads, we came to realize that two such important and extensive bills would be difficult to consider one day because they could take hours. Therefore, we came to understand that one of those laws, the electricity market today, and the Constitutional Court would consider the following week on Tuesday, because two laws of such great weight and volume would be difficult to consider in one day. Thus we have one fundamental Law on the electricity market today, we have a second one, and the first, by general agreement of the factions, is the Health Committee Act to amend some of Ukraine’s legislation on improving health legislation. And after the electricity market, we're going to have the day-to-day session block again, and then the humanitarian and social policy block. In the bloc of humanitarian social policy, we also included issues that we failed to address yesterday, youth and sports, and I hope that this block, where there are many, truly, socially important bills, will be able to unite the hall and we will be able to work effectively and operate. It will only be very important for us, colleagues, that we vote today on the initiative to work without interruptions 12-12:30. I would like to point out that at that time there will be a bill that contains 700 rights. And I'm going to ask the hall to repeat our tradition and work without interruption at 12:30. And I'm going to put this proposal and this initiative to the vote after the first bill and ask everyone in the room to support it. Before I go into the agenda, I have to read out a statement from two factions that came into the Presidency. At the request of two factions in accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, please announce a recess at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have two factions of Self-Help and the Radical Party, and they're willing to replace it with a tribune. And I'd like to invite you to the speech by Oleg Valeriovich Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I'd like to inform you of important information. On Tuesday, the Supreme Council voted to call on the Parliament to report to the head of the NCREKP, Dmitri Vuka, for a report on the most topical issue for millions of Ukrainians – this is a subscription for gas counters, i.e. actually a robbery of Ukrainians. Today, Thursday, and Vuka is still not in Parliament. This wolf runs in circles outside of Parliament, holds press conferences, talks about anything, instead of executing Parliament's decision to come here and report to the Ukrainians, before the deputies about his absolutely dragonic decision, which robs Ukrainians for the benefit of the oligarchs, the Furtash under the cover of power. I insist that Parliament's decision be implemented and that Wolf, head of the NCREKP, come to the Supreme Council today and answer our questions and questions to the Ukrainians. The other one. I called the President of Ukraine's reception this morning and told them that the Radical Party faction was insisting on meeting the President with our faction. We want President Prashenko to be asked to resign the head of the NCREKP Wolf and the entire composition of the NCREKP. The president passed a law in Parliament that allows him to hold this "Shosen wolf" with a corrupt inside for another 18 months. Every day, the mob robs Ukrainians for the benefit of the oligarchs, Firthash, and those who cover him. That's why we demand that I address the President publicly from this rostrum. We insist on this meeting, if the President doesn't find an opportunity to meet us at 2:00 p.m., during the break of Parliament's work, the Radical Party faction in its entirety goes to the President of Ukraine. I invite all those who are concerned, all who are willing to defend the interests of the Ukrainians, not to be robbed along with us, to go to the Bank to the President and demand the resignation of the head of the NCREKP. And the third. Yesterday the Radical Party faction in its entirety was at a meeting of the government, where we demanded the government to return state administrations to state, national gas distribution networks, which are used for free for many years by Firtash, Ljovczyn, and Boyko. We've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got Janukovich, we've got the Krajina looting on Dusty. We demand that this vicious circle be broken. Why do Ukrainians have to pay billions from their own pocket to be enriched by Firtash and Dustenko? We won't let you rob Ukrainians. Join our fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the first question of the order of the day, which I hope will unite the entire room. It was named. They mentioned the faction, please, a replica, for one minute. Pottery, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u5	Thank you. On behalf of the faction of Peter Prashenko, I was about to respond to this back just now. This flamethrower of ours, he just doesn't tell people that the decision to split wages for gas is made in accordance with the Natural Gas Market Act, which was voted in this room exactly two years ago. And he, Oleg Lazko, and all the Radical Party voted in favour of this law. And they're both "fatherland" and "self-help" and "self-help" are all in favour, all in favor. And today you're being lied to here, from morning to evening, telling your stories, your conversations. Let him answer, where he got a million dollars of U.S. cash that he had already declared for the second year when the entire biography of a person — sitting in prison for an affair, being a journalist, and then his entire life as a national deputy. Then don't tell me who the wolf is in sheep's clothing. It's better to be a wolf than such a disgraceful Can.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u6	One minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u7	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction really voted in favour of the Gas Market Act, which provides for the distribution of payments for subscription and gas costs. That's what's happening all over Europe. But nowhere in Europe is the Ukrainians being robbed like you do when you gave free state-owned gas networks into the property of the oligarchy-firtash, agreed to powder with them, put up 24 billion dollars of gas at the top of the price that Ukrainians have to pay with their own pockets. If you're launching a separate subscription, lower by 15-20 percent the price of gas, and when you return, implement the law that we voted for, and return the gas distribution networks to the state property, that's another minus 30 percent of the cost of gas, so that it doesn't pay for your corruption. Well, finally, if they steal you again, let them hold you longer because they let you out early!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u8	Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down right now. There was no mention of a faction. Who was mentioned? Kim? Who was mentioned? Pottery, did you mention the faction? All right, one minute, one last speech, and let's get to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the Law on the Gas Market is the law that directs the government to remove immediately all those gas distribution networks that have been illegally transferred to Firtash for exploitation without paying the rent. Please tell me, why has the government failed to carry out this commission so far? Instead, it comes with the idea of extending the lease or any other activity in the operation of these gas distribution networks. Our faction demands that we stop being covered by a law that has clearly defined the order of how these networks will continue to be operated through state enterprises. That's it! And so we ask this session hall on Government Day tomorrow to determine this question, not to cover up the wrong decisions of the Wolf and his commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u10	One minute, Self-Help, Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u11	Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble colleagues! You don't need any speculation, you just have to call the Vulcan Parliament and let it explain the fraud. And there are no laws on the gas market or the gas market that don't explain it -- ordinary fraud, and the authorities are caught by the hand in this fraud. They stole the pipe, and now they want people to pay for it. Fraud should not pass in the 21st century in a civilized country. Therefore, the head of the NCREKP – immediately to the room for explanations, cancellation of the subscription and fulfilment of all our conditions before the European and Ukrainian partners – is a clean, quality and transparent market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u12	Colleagues, let's move on to the first draft of the agenda. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving health legislation (2309 a.k.a.). This law in second reading does not require a change of procedure. And I invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to report. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u13	I would like to point out, Mr. President, before we begin our consideration of the bill 2309, that there will be no break today, most likely today in Parliament, melanoma -- one of the most aggressive forms of skin cancer that comes from the family. And today, there are highly qualified professionals working in the second floor towers, who, if needed, can examine your assistants, members of the secretariat in order, in fact, to announce also the celebration of the Universal Melanoma Day, which will take place on April 13, where thousands of doctors in Ukraine will be involved, and where free examinations will take place in all the district centers. Now we are moving on to, in fact, the consideration of Law 2309, which is extremely important for the development of a health system in Ukraine. I would like to point out that it was you that Members of Parliament voted in 2015 on the decisions of parliamentary hearings on military medicine. In 2016, parliamentary hearings on health reform were voted on, the strategic plan and the 25 steps we have to take to ensure that the health system in Ukraine becomes a European quality and that we treat citizens according to European standards. Law 2309 is just one small step toward bringing the Ukrainian health system closer to European standards and European quality. This law was voted by Parliament on April 21, 2016, and for almost a year, the working group worked extremely well on the committee. The main goal of the working group was to prevent the privatization of health facilities, to prevent commercialization, and to prevent the release of doctors and people. And this goal was achieved because there cannot be a basic private health system in Ukraine. And it's prescribed in military medicine. Why, because our country may be at war, and our country is at war. That is why in countries that may be at war, the basic system must be state. And it is this interest of the protection of the State that we have protected in Law 2309. This law proposes to give impetus to the introduction of new, more effective forms of health management, the provision of financial and administrative autonomy to health institutions to ensure the effective use of the financial, material and human resources of the health system. When this bill is drafted, it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u14	Please, one minute. That's enough for a minute, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u15	We took the utmost account of the impossibility of privatization, which is included in the body of the law, the establishment of a ban on reorganized security facilities, the change of profile, the establishment of a direct ban on privatization of reorganized health facilities and the absence of a forced change of status. That is to say, today, this law proposes to grant the benefits to health institutions that want to work in a new business relationship. And those establishments that don't want to go into a new form will be saved by state funding. The next law will be the law that regulates how they will come. how the State will finance these facilities and finance the provision of services. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill so that health institutions and the system can continue their development on the path towards approaching European standards and European quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Comrades, let's move to the right. Please be prepared for work by the right-wing authors. And I'm going down the slopes. 2nd row. Irina Sisoyenko. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Four. No, it's not. Six o'clock, Jarinitch. Don't insist. 7th. No, it's not. 13th. Berezenko. It's the 12th. Pinzenik Victor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to place the 12th on confirmation. We have just heard the chairman of the committee speak, the idea of this law is to give the right to self-employment to medical institutions. This was in the first reading. And this right removes the right of medical institutions to have separate property, costs, self-balancing, state approval, bank accounts, and sealing. It was the main idea of this bill to turn the budget institutions into self-sustaining units. This amendment annuls this rule, loses the essence of this bill at all. I'm asking you to put this amendment on the stand and not back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u18	Mrs. Ola, please comment. 12 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u19	In fact, the bill regulates what will be introduced for the first time in Ukraine, which is called "medical care." This service will be paid by the state, local budgets, and this service can be paid potentially by the person himself. This will make it possible to legalize today the entire shadowy circulation of health - care funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u20	You're asking me to support this amendment by voting, right? Yes. So, colleagues, I'm putting 12 votes in the vote. Victor Pinzenic put her on the stand. And the committee head is asking the room to back her up, right? So, colleagues, 12 revisions. Whoever supports the committee's position, please vote and support. It's worth 12 revisions. Please vote. Vote! The committee is requesting support for this amendment. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[10:23:40]] For-146 The decision is not made. 18th, Spinov, don't insist. What's the readout? 17th, Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the 17th Amendment, I suggest you put it on confirmation as well. It responds to the 12th law, which is not confirmed. This includes a bill that preserves the status of budgetary institutions in medical institutions. I would like to stress once again that the main idea of the first start of the reform was to give medical institutions independence and to continue paying for services. It can't be a budget institution if we stop budgeting and get paid for services. So I'm asking you to put this right here for confirmation and not back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u22	Please, Mrs. Ola. It's on confirmation of 17 revisions. The committee counted it. Committee position: take it into account. So whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Whoever supports the position of the committee and the amendment, please vote in favour. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:25:23]] For 131 The decision is not made. On the 16th, Ola the Mantis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, 16 orders from the Vanat People's Deputies. The amendment proposed to address the possibility of a department of higher health care institutions, which are now clinical bases for student learning and for improving the skills of health care professionals to reduce the risk of termination of their activities after the transformation of these facilities into enterprises. This amendment was rejected in view of the fact that it is not necessary to settle this issue, not in article 16, but in article 20 and 75, which cannot be done in this bill. But the Health Committee has already passed Bill 6283, which fully addresses this issue and protects both status and allows the creation of scientific bases, clinical bases, medical universities, and university clinics in such institutions. Law 6283 has already been registered in Parliament. So actually, the 16 was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u24	Thank you. We promised that all the legislative initiatives of Vanata could be implemented in the hall. And thank you for this initiative. Which way? Berezenka, please. 17 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask in the end, after we've been through the regulations, to put a bill to the vote with those rights passed by the committee, because this is an agreed position. And for now, when we're putting in the papers and asking them for confirmation and not supporting the initiative of one or the other MP, we're breaking the structure of the law. I would very much like to take into account the fact that all the positions we're talking about have been taken into account. The calculated position of health care, the creation of state-owned casinos, and the creation of municipal non-profit enterprises. This law has been fully implemented. We now have a risk of breaking the structure of the law by bringing year-on-year remedies that do not match the reality and the structure, the logic of the law. This request isn't just the Peter Prashenko Block, it's the request of many factions who voted in favour of it by their representatives on the committee. Mr. Head, put it in the end. And the request to the head of the committee to submit to the confirmation the entire bill as a whole with the rights supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u26	Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Thank you and I'd like to comment. That Mr. Pinzenic's papers, which were given, were taken into account by the committee. And I ask you to support the bill. All the changes we got were exactly 56. Of these, 28 are counted, and 7 are partially counted. All unaccounted for changes cannot be made according to the form or body of the law. Therefore, I ask that this law be put to the vote in general. And I want to make another point. That there was a call from the People's Front from Mrs. Tetjana Donz's deputy, who gave her orders in violation of the regulations. The suggestions made by Mrs. Tetjana were considered by the committee, despite the fact that they were made in violation of the rules. And as a result of the committee's consideration, it decided to reject them because the bill does not regulate the issue of the number and number of paid services. This bill is nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u28	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u29	This law does not regulate the number and number of paid services that may be provided by state and municipal institutions. And the restrictions proposed by the People's Deputy cannot be accepted, accepted in this bill. Moreover, the issue of property management, the limitation of the rent, is also regulated by legislation. And the corrections given, they're contravened by Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u30	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u31	It's in conflict with the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which is part of the right of territorial communities to manage their own property and to limit the percentage of rent they can rent in their establishments. So when I urge the People's Front faction, I'm prepared to put these rights to the vote of the Hall, taking into account the position of the committee not to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u32	Mrs. Ola, we're going to go straight, but once you've finished the discussion, you can ask me to go back to one or the other if it's balancing the law. And you, please, as chairman of the committee, correct how important it is for us to get back to them, and you will call them after the discussion. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] The 17th we haven't confirmed yet? We're done. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, 20th, Sissyenne. Don't insist. 22nd, Jarinitch. Don't insist. 25th. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u33	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to express my concern to the medics who wrote letters to the President who wrote a letter to you, Andry Volodymyrovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, to the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, they say that the introduction of the autonomy of institutions in the event of the abolition of the rules of number and the rules of workload on medical personnel, the absence of minimum guarantees for the payment of work with the extension of the powers of managers in making decisions will put medical personnel, both in charge and funding, in cabal dependence. They also give their reasons for the shortcomings of the bill and say that the main and essential disadvantage is the lack of guarantees regarding the realization of the rights of the underprivileged themselves when receiving secondary and third-party medical care in full or partial payment of the insured. I'll also, you know, tell you something like that, that the unions, they might have been.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u34	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u35	Yeah. Trade unions may have been involved in this bill, but I would ask that we understand that people work in these institutions first. They're watching television right now, they're hundreds of thousands of health workers, they're going to have a clear understanding of how they're going to work, whether they're going to be dependent on how they're going to serve, and, above all, the consumer who's going to get the services, which pay directly, which are free, which stage and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u36	Ten seconds. But try to enter at the time that you are taken. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u37	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. So we're asking you to put this right here for confirmation and fail it, not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u38	Mrs. Olya, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I absolutely share the concern of the Fatherland in the future health system. And I want to point out that, as I said, Law 2309 is just one small step in the way of reforming the health system. This small step governs only, in fact, the work of a medical institution, not the financing process or the provision of assistance. This process will be regulated, regulated by another law, which has been introduced and registered in Parliament, Law 4456, which clearly protects the rights of people to receive aid for public funds. Therefore, it is not physically possible to consider the whole reform of health care in this bill. It regulates, economics gives medical institutions autonomy to use funds, to increase or reduce beds, to increase the number of doctors, if necessary. And this law stipulates that people are protected from being released.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u40	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u41	This law does not force the institution to change its status, no, it motivates them. And those institutions that don't want to be motivated, they're going to stay and work on the budget, that's going to be the decision of the health community. These were, the same warnings we had when we argued on the committee over the course of the year, how better to protect people, workers, and ensure that the system didn't fail. So in this law, we tried our best to get around all the sharp corners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u42	Do you insist on voting? You insist, yes. The 25 amendments that the committee took into account are confirmed, and the committee asks for its support. Yes, Mrs. Olu? I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and we're moving to a 25-read vote. The committee's asking her to support the 25th amendment. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So whoever supports the 25th amendment, please vote, please support. Colleagues, are you ready to vote? So, colleagues, please mobilize, I'm asking you to support the 25 amendments that the committee has supported and asked for support. Please vote, please support the 25 revisions. [[10:37:36]] For-166 50th, Sissyenne. Turn on the microphone. Fifty lashes, Sisoienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u43	I want to give an answer to the previous speaker about the concerns expressed in the medical references. It's this bill that we have to give the chief physicians an administrative opportunity to form, first and foremost, a pay fund. Now, health workers who receive cash as an official cost-generating salary should be changed to the fact that the chief physicians have to be interested in involving the best medical personnel and forming their own salaries for which they will work properly in those medical institutions. So now the chief physicians have the task of keeping their seats. With the adoption of this bill, they have to do everything they can to make sure that their medical facility is the best, that there are the best doctors with wages, and that there are a lot of patients, and accordingly the formation of financial flows to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u44	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u45	Accordingly, financial flows will be formed at the medical facility only in the number of patients who will arrive. So changing the philosophy of chief physicians will only improve the quality of medical care for the population of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u46	Thank you. I would like to point out that in the end, the committee head will name which right she recommends to return to. But right now we're going after what's rejected. Next, 56th, Jarinitch. Don't insist. And, colleagues, so we went through the lines that we were. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to go back to the 33rd. It's not that kind of principle, but I want to draw attention to the next one. What Parliament did by rejecting regulations 12 and 17, he preserved the main idea of the bill. I don’t know, perhaps for technical reasons or for some other reason, that the hospital becomes a separate autonomous subject, and this rule disappeared in a second reading. When we rejected the revisions, we restored that standard. So the vote I proposed didn't make the law worse, it restored the idea of giving autonomy to our medical institutions. And I don't insist on confirming the 33rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u48	Are you insisting? So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, we're done talking and we're moving on to making a decision. For many months, the committee was working on the draft of the bill. And I'm asking everyone in this room to come into this room right now so that we can make a decision on this law. I ask everyone to come to the Hall and heads of factions, and to the Secretariat of the Supreme Council. As long as the MPs come in, I'll give you three minutes, and now they'll arrange for the committee head to summarize our discussion. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I'm asking the committee head, I'm asking the committee head to sum it up. Please. Mrs. Ola, please sum it up. Yvchenka, one minute. Yvchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u49	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is a set of bills that will be proposed to the Supreme Council on the reform of the medical sector, which will include about five bills. Another, for example, is the State Financial Guarantees that enters or is already registered; the Additional State Financial Guarantees for the Provision of Medical Services; the Basic Health Law; and the Amending of the Budget Code for Primary Health Care. And when we get letters from health professionals who are signed, from trade unions, directly from those who work in these institutions, I have a question, to the President, to the Supreme Council, and I have a question: Is it not possible to sit down with them -- and get a text that is directly consistent and suggest to the MPs? We're using these letters, where they're talking completely about the destruction of the health sector reform. How can you work when you say one thing as a committee and people who work in these institutions say another? That's why we urge you to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u50	Please, the chairman of the committee, please sum up the discussion. Mrs. Ola the Mantis, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, during the year, the Health Committee worked with both the medical community and the trade unions and with public organizations, professionally taking into account all necessary rights in order to protect both the professional community and to protect health institutions from commercialization and privatization. Those amendments that have now been voted on have ruined the philosophy of the law. Law 25, for example, destroyed the existence of public control that could be exercised in accordance with this law over medical institutions. So I'm very surprised that the unions don't turn to or turn to their positions as a profile committee, but we've taken them all into account. Therefore, I ask you to put this law to a vote in force with those rights that are taken into account by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u52	Mrs. Ola, what are you doing? Mrs. Ola!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, please return the 12th, the 17th and the 25th. [[B in m in s a l in]] 12th, 13th, 17th and 25th for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u54	Colleagues, please move on to decision-making. None. Colleagues, all right. Attention! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now, we've got a situation of discussion under the law, which, as they said at the Conciliation Council, everyone supports. So let's take off the tension, let's say in a minute, all the factions will say, and let's move on to the decision-making. I heard a proposal from the committee head to return to those orders. I ask one minute from each faction to make a statement on this subject. And the Ministry, yes. So who do we start with? Ministry, please. Roman Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u55	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I want to talk about it. That we are gradually expanding the authority and autonomy of medical institutions through this bill. This opens up the possibility of getting a different quality of medical education and a different quality of medical care for everyone who needs it. It is by those rights that have failed that the law has been adjusted to those rules that allow for the real expansion of the autonomy of the medical institution, except for 25 rights. So that's why the 12 revisions, see, in an editorial that was adopted in the first reading, determine that a medical institution can have separate property, including the funds attached to it at the right of operational management, self-balancing, self-approval of a state-of-the-art receipt, holding accounts in state-owned banks and seals, are deleted. Deleted because this is counted. Now that Pinzenic put the vote to a vote, actually, confirmation of this amendment, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u56	Please allow the Ministry to complete for another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u57	This is actually left over in this edition that was adopted in the first reading. So it's very important. The Ministry of Health is supporting the whole. This is a bill that has been worked on for almost two years on the committee, and almost two years has been discussed between the Ministry and the Committee directly on the rules contained in this bill. Now it's balanced, now it's totally acceptable to accept. So I'm asking all the national MPs to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u58	Thank you. So by factions. I said I'd give it to you. What are you yelling at? Why are you yelling? I said I'd give it to you. I'm asking who to start with. B.P.P. hasn't been identified yet. Bourbuck, one minute. By BP – Jarinich. Please, Jarinich, then Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I insist once again that we have been practically working on this bill for two years. And really today, in the way it's coming out, it's already completely balanced with all the factions and MPs as much as possible. We're on our way now because we're removing corrections. That's not right, but it's making the bill even more unbalanced. Yes, there are things behind which people's deputies already understand that this is the right thing to do. So I'm asking you to put the committee to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill. But I'm going to the department of profile. We heard from the government yesterday, there were four bills that eventually launch medical reform. So I'm sure such important bills should be considered together, one day when we said that the start of medical reform had begun. Because last week I met with the chief doctors of the hospital districts in the region of Chernobyl, they asked: tell me what will be the overall concept of the medical reform that will be on the way out. Yes, we're giving more autonomy to medical institutions today, but we need to tell you in general what the medical field in Ukraine will look like. That's why we're going to be supportive. But I would also like us to support the rights of our deputy Tetjana Donz, who makes sure that no rights are usurped for the transfer of all objects of real estate into the lease. And secondly, so that the market for payment services doesn't exceed 20 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u63	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to distract the committee's head. Please. Colleagues! Colleagues! Well, it's got to be done under the transcript now. Olya! Olya! Listen, please. Our offer of faction. The 25 amendments that our colleague has put in place to confirm, regarding public councils, leave an option, as suggested by the law. That is to support public councils. 25 readjustments as there are revisions. The other one. The 12th edition, which Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik confirmed, and what Deputy Minister Ilik confirmed, was left to the first reading. So we leave autonomy, but that's the principle. But the key adjustment is on service pay, 18th. Our request at the 18th corner that the Cabinet of Ministers approve not only the method of accounting but also the list of paid services. And if these three things count.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u64	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u65	17th, sorry, not 18th, but 17th. If this is counted, these three things. So the 12th in the first reading, the 25th in the second reading and the 17th in the revision, which is not just the method, but the list, we're going to vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u66	Sergei, I'll make an offer. Sergei, Sergei! I'll make an offer to come back. The chairman of the committee will read the paper. You'll tell me if it's confirmed. And then we're going to put it to a vote. From Self-Help, Sissyenka, right? Please, Sisoyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! The list of paid services has long been determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. What is now proposed in the bill is that the methodology for calculating the cost of medical services for which the state will pay, at the expense of district budgets, city budgets, district budgets to health facilities where the population will be served, should be the same for the whole of Ukraine. For each medical facility, the same cost of medical care is required. But it's the government's fee! The list of paid services that are currently being paid from other sources of funding has long been determined by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u68	Thank you. Opposition Block, Storm, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u69	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! What is being created today in the hall is the result of the coalition’s failure in two years to adopt the concept of a national health system strategy. This bill, today it's the "first tray" that won't change the fundamental situation, but that allows the health system to develop. We see there's no concept today, there's no coalition, there's no minister. But today, I am convinced, the health problem is able to unite political elites. There's been an amendment to the Opposition Block, which is what concerns people the most. These facilities have no right to be privatized! And once ownership changes, the basic function can't change. For these people, this should be understandable. There can be no tower, factory, or office in the clinic building. This bill needs to be supported today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u70	Thank you. Sergei Melniczuk, one minute. Colleagues, but as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u71	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Dear colleagues, the bill has been in operation for almost two years, even more than two years. He agrees with the Ministry of Health, the Committee, the public, and it supports more than 80,000 workers who are members of the National Medical Chamber of Ukraine, who have also helped to create the bill. And the fact that colleagues are now trying to make those changes that are going to be written in other bills, they're going to continue, they don't have to mix, we're just going to break the bill. Now let's take what we have, and in the rest of the bills we're going to write the following, the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u72	Thank you. Kirichenko, one minute. And then Spike, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u73	The Radical Party will support this bill. There's a sacramental phrase here: "Penalty cannot be pardoned." In this case, it's not about any pay service, it's about a new unit of discretion -- medical service, it's about an inter-budget relationship. We have to start counting the costs we spend on our medicine. Public or municipal institutions are now able to change the form of management between the budgetary institution and the treasury company. But delivered services, they'll still be right, they'll be able to provide services to the population and get the money. After that, they have the right to spend money on their own reasoning, which will encourage them to earn, to provide the best services. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u74	Thank you. Andrew Shipko, one minute. Both Corchinska and then the committee head will sum it up. Please, Pinocchio.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. First, he worked for about two years on the committee. We listened to public organizations, health professionals. We talked to people. We understand that no reform will move if there is no autonomy of medical institutions. Let's give our institutions the opportunity clinics, the European clinics that have the potential. We can't just fund these institutions from the budget, you know, there's no reform now, there's no medicine available to people. This is the first contribution we're making, the first little step forward, because we're filling out the budgets of medical institutions, they have more possibilities. And all the doctors and all the teams asked me to personally support the bill. Colleagues, I ask you to gather and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u76	Colleagues, I ask you, by speaking out, to emphasize how we can act in this situation that has arisen. Now there are two final speeches from the committee. And, above all, advise on how we should deal with these regulations. Oksana Korchinska, one minute. Then there's Musai, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u77	Colleagues, this law needs to be supported because it is the first brick in the real change in the health system. It's the first brick, it's the principle. Especially now we need to support the 25th article, because when a colleague from "The Fatherland" put it on the stand, he destroyed full public control of medical institutions. This article pointed out that all medical institutions should have either observational or guardianial councils. This is the only possibility of public control. Therefore, this article should be voted on in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u78	Musai, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u79	Dear people.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u80	And after that. Wait a minute. Then we vote. Everyone please enter the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be very careful about voting for the amendments proposed by the committee and the committee. For two years the committee aligned everything between all factions, including the Ministry of Health. It's essentially the only bill that's whole and complex, and the first one that's practically consistent with everything. These amendments, which are designed for confirmation, will undermine the sense of autonomous health care facilities. That's why I'm asking very much, and I insist that the committee vote be put to the vote, and these amendments, which have been rejected, are confirmed as necessary, because it will have no sense of acceptance if we reject the three proposed amendments. They fit fully into the concept of building the new health system proposed by the committee. There's Bill 4456, which takes into account the rights of the People's Front, Mrs. Donz, which takes into account the warnings of the Fatherland. He exists, as agreed by the committee, so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Olu, I very much ask you now for the results of the discussion to recommend now how we can move on to decisions that we can go back to and what adjustments we can correct. Please, three minutes, Mantis. Then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for this active discussion of this impeccable bill. My point is that health care and Ukraine now live in different coordinate systems. The health system lives in a Soviet model and economy where the state does not know how to count money, and Ukraine lives in a capitalist model and economy that counts money. By this law, we want to force the Cabinet of Ministers, executive power, to start counting, and how much it costs the State to provide health care to the population and to pay for these quality services according to European standards and European protocols. I want to support the comments and corrections given by Mr. Sobolev, Fatherland. And now I ask you to return to the vote in order to confirm the 25th amendment, which actually creates public councils in health institutions. Please also return to Mr. Sobolje's sound check, where he noted that the service list should be approved by Kabmin. The law states that the self-sustainment model is calculated by the Kabmin, according to logic, and the service list is confirmed by the Kabmin, although I would personally like this list of services approved by the Supreme Council, because I think it will be more balanced. But I'm ready to support Mr. Sobolev's revision, and I'm asking 25th, 17th for confirmation, and 12th for first reading, 25th for second reading. So I would like to ask Mr. Paris to return to the 25-way vote now. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, please, 30 seconds, Sisoienka. 30 seconds, Sisoienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I very much ask that Parliament finally adopt the first fundamental law on changing the principles of health financing, so that we can start paying for medical services for a patient who goes to a medical facility. The bill completely prohibits the privatization of state and municipal hospitals, which created observational councils to control the activity and freedom of action, administrative and financial, chief physicians. So finally let's change the principle of financing and start paying for medical services, which is clearly written in this bill. So I want to point out once again that regardless of the political forces that each of us represents in Parliament, let's finally give our medicine a chance to change and introduce state-owned non-profit, non-profit enterprises instead of budgetary medical institutions, as they are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u86	Thank you, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm sorry, I've given everyone my word many times. No! No! Discussion's over, colleagues. We're moving on to making a decision. So I'm proposing to the head of the committee that I go back to the 25th. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal to go back to the 25th. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:04:43]] For 240 We're back. And now I'm asking you to confirm number 25. Please vote, please confirm the 25th amendment and support the committee. Let's vote, colleagues. Please back up, confirm. [[11:05:06]] For 242 Now it's 17 to the left. On the 17th page, there was an amendment that the committee is willing to take into account. Please come back and vote in favour of the 17th amendment. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Back to the 17th amendment, please vote. Please vote, support the committee. [[11:05:36]] For 241 Ms. Ola, please read under the transcript how 17 amendments are supposed to sound so that we can vote for it. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u87	Yes. I'm asking you, first of all, to consider that I don't have a voting system. I can't give up my voice, well, I'm not glowing. So 17 please. Please take into account the editorial that Mr. Sobolev gave us, as the service list is confirmed by Kabmin. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u88	So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of number 17 with the amendment that Sergio Sobolev made under the transcript. By whom Sobolev's repair, by whom. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote, please support this editorial, which has been bugged, please support. I'll give it to you later. All right, colleagues, we're stopping. Mr. Victor, please give me a minute. Put a microphone on Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't insist on that. I don't want to have a 17-way conflict, because we counted part of it by voting. Sergey Sobolev proposed a different standard. So I want, both the position and the hall and the committee, to support only the clarification that Sergey Sobolev proposed without moving what we have already voted on. And in this way, I ask you to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u90	So I'm asking the committee head to make that clear and say it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, please take into account Mr. Pinzenik's full vote now. So we're voting for the amendment by adding Mr. Sobolev's proposals through a coma.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u92	Colleagues, let me try to put this right. Please listen carefully. Colleagues, there was an amendment in general that was not supported. There's an amendment now, Sergey Soboljeva. You just have to put it right. Mr. Victor, help me spell out what we're putting to the vote. No, no, come to me, Mr. Victor. No, come to me, come to me and help me. I'm voting for the 17th edition of Sergio Soboljeva. Is that right? The 17th edition of Sergio Soboljeva. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Vote, colleagues. [[11:08:43]] For 243 Colleagues, can we move on in general? And I put to the vote after a long and difficult discussion a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving health legislation (2309a) on second reading and in general on technical law. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we had a big and difficult discussion. Now let's support the law in groups. I vote 2309-a-deputy in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. With technical law. Where I've been working. 2309 a-d worked. [[11:09:40]] For 280 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee. Please, 30 seconds, Oli the Mantis. And, colleagues, please don't go out now. Olya, wait. Olya! Colleagues, I'm asking you so much while everyone's in place. Colleagues! I'm asking you to stay in the hall, stay out of the hall. I ask you now to support the proposal that we work without interruption 12.00-12.30. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Now we're going to have a bill with a thousand rights. Under a thousand rights, colleagues. I ask you to support the offer today to work without interruption 12.00-12.30. Colleagues, do you support? Colleagues, do you support? "Paternality"! B.P.P.! Please vote. Please support work without interruption 12.00-12.30. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's show that the Ukrainian Parliament is able to work very effectively. Please vote. Vote. [[11:10:49]] For-188. Guys, I'll put it back on. Let me show you through the factions. Block of Petra Poshenko – 83, National Front – 53, Opposition Block – 3, Self-help – 4, Radical Party – 17, Fatherskina – 2, Will of the People – 8, Rebirth Party – 1. Colleagues, we are now entering into a bill where there are thousands of rights. How are we going to break it off, banally technical? I ask once again, colleagues, to mobilize and support the work without interruptions of 12:00-12:30. I'm asking you to support all the colleagues and committee heads, please help me with the support in the hall, it was your initiative. Please support the work without interruption at 12:00-12:30. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support. Vote. We won't be able to get to all the bills, by the way, if we don't. [[11:11:52]] For 199 Colleagues, I'm explaining one simple logic. Please, we have bills that stand in the middle of the day. We just can't get to them, we just can't get to them if we work hard. It's not a political issue, it's a question of the effectiveness of our work. I'll do it for the third time. I'm asking you now to support this proposal, because then we just won't get to the bills that are in the middle of the day. It's young and sports, it's internally displaced, it's also a question of the South -- change to the Customs Code. I'm asking you to mobilize. And for the last time, I'm putting it to a vote with the hope that everyone will support it. Please support your work without interruption at 12:30. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. I ask you to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:13:00]] For-188. All right, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, guys, I'm gonna set it up one last time. I'm gonna set it up again. Colleagues, then the committee heads will run to me and say, "We don't get to look at the laws." I will be as firm as you are now, as I will be firm. There will be a need, we'll go in full procedure. You don't want to work effectively in Parliament, you'll have to work so hard in Parliament that we don't get to the Bills. I'm asking you to mobilize. I'll put it to the vote again. We took this initiative last Thursday, and we were able to pass 18 laws in general, 18 laws. All the initiatives were taken. Colleagues, I ask you to resume your jobs and support me. I'm voting. Colleagues, I'm asking you to vote for the job at 12:30. Arthur Gerasimov! Please, I'll put the vote again, work without interruptions 12-12:30. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:14:44]] For a hundred and No voices. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. It's a draft of the Power Market Act. The edits are made up of two parts. And it's obviously going to be a hard job. Nevertheless, colleagues, we are moving on to its consideration, to the draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine (number 4493). And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on fuel and energy issues, nuclear policy and nuclear safety of Podlisecki Lev Theofilovich to report. Please, Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u93	Dear National Deputies! In the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Security, proposals and second reading rights have been processed to the Electricity Market Act (number 4493), which was adopted on the first reading on September 22, 2016. A total of 1182 proposals and corrections, of which 429, are included in part, 68, 117, and 467 are rejected by the committee. The bill was drafted by 30 people's deputies. I would just like to say that there are no questions about the room, because a lot of attention has been given to this, there have been a number of laws that regulate and set a so-called "green" tariff on electricity produced from the burning of household waste. The data were rejected and rejected by the author of the bill because the block of issues will be solved in a complex with a cluster of issues related to waste management. And this is a completely different area of activity. Therefore, the bill does not contain this right. I would like to say in two words about the importance of the law. Electricity, it's a product like any product that needs to be sold in an open market. So we need to understand that and make every effort to make sure that the goods can be traded. A product that has its manufacturer, its supplier, and its consumer. And he was on the same level as other goods. The bill establishes market relations between all market participants, starting with production, ending with the consumer. And the consumer becomes, gets the right to, gets the right of the market subject. Because today we know a situation where the consumer can only get what one supplier gives him. And this price is determined completely on the opaque, in an opaque way by the NCRECR. And we have a lot of observations before that. I would like to refer to the national deputies who will put to the vote the confirmation or consideration of the other rights. Since the bill is very large, it's complex and it's made up, and it's given almost a thousand two hundred rights, very many committees have done work to balance the bill and it's complex. And there was one philosophy.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u94	How much more can I give you? That's enough, isn't it? Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u95	So I very much ask every national MP before putting the committee to a vote, especially those that are included, to think twice about whether or not we will break the philosophy of the bill, because a preliminary review of the medical bill has shown us the need to review our vote after confirmation of the rights. I'd like to ask that we don't break the bill because it's very complicated and very complex, but we've gone through it with dignity and quality. At the same time, I stress that this bill reduces the regulatory capacity and functions, it allows for the creation of economically sound market prices for electricity, leaving the maximum minimum or minimum amount of regulated activities of the NCRECR, where only regulation of the activities of natural monopolies remains under the authority of the regulator, which is the system of transmission and the system of distribution of electricity, i.e. network owners. Everything else will be marketable, both the market price for electricity and other services. So I'd like to go over to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u96	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to point out that I had two applications for recess before I considered the matter. I'll give them to you as soon as I've considered the issue on those two applications. Now we're going to the right. Please be prepared for active work by the right-wing authors. Please, Mrs. Irina, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, given that we have more than a thousand rights, I very much ask for constructive work. So 1 ADARCHENK'S AMENDMENT. Do you insist, Mr. Odarchenko? Don't insist. Amendment number 5, Martovitchki. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number six, Sažko. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 7, Sažko. Don't insist. Correction 10, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 11th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 12th, Rybchin. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u98	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished viewers. Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I ask the honourable Vice Speaker of the 12th, 13th and 14th revisions, they go at the same time, give me three minutes and then to immediately put all three votes to the vote so that they don't waste time. As far as I'm concerned. My revisions relate to the support of green energy. First of all, I want to thank the drafters and the working group that is made up of professionals and experts, for the work they've done, we've seen it. But I can't say that this law explicitly takes into account the interests of the green generation itself. Which is suggested by 12, 13 and 14 right. They refer to the so - called, so - called issue of imbalance. What is imbalance? It's a allowed deviation or tolerance matching from the actual amount of electricity discharge from the VDE from the day-to-day electricity release schedule. I mean, if you misplan your activity because you don't have any meters at all, we have winds, for example, for wind energy, they blow.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u99	There is no such standard as to add 3 minutes to all the lines. We've heard that you insist on voting on the 12th, then on the 13th and the 14th. By the way, this is, you have co-authors here, so I'm just going to put them in order. Dear colleagues, we're asking the copyright team to support the number 12 issue on green energy. Who's in favour, please vote. [[11:23:08]] For-80 No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. 13 the following, put to the vote. Yes, please. Please, one more minute, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u100	So this is about imbalances. In EU countries, different models of responsibility for imbalances are used, starting with complete absence (France, Portugal, Ireland, Latvia) and ending with a tolerance of up to 50 per cent depending on the power of the manufacturer and the type of generation (in Italy, Belgium, Hungary and Spain). We did it. I mean, if you couldn't plan more than 10 percent, you'd pay the fine. This fine hasn't been fixed yet, we don't know what it's going to be. And I think the green market is going to slow down the development of this generation. Now it's just a little bit more than 1 percent. By 2020, Ukraine had determined that it would be 11. When you don't have a lot of uncertainty, there's still a war in the east, we still have annexed Crimea, occupied by Donbas, people here, investors, they don't go. And this is creating green jobs, this is investment, the green sector is the only one in the world that's evolving despite any crisis. And now we're doing these things, what are we doing? Instead of helping to develop this market, we introduce additional barriers. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u101	I am voting on Amendment 13, which was submitted by the national deputies Ryabchin, Wojciecki and Katzer Buchkowska. May I vote in favour? 13th. 13th. [[11:25:01]] For-92 Let's move on, the 14th Amendment. Alexi, let's vote now. Please, Steak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u102	There's about 40 amendments I'm going to make, and I'm going to comment on them all, because there's no green energy besides me, as I can see, no one's protecting them. So there's another question about what were the discussions to correct the projections three hours before the beginning of the production in order for them to be able to adjust these things. Unfortunately, these were rejected, and this 12-a,13-a,14-a complex is called the creation of separate subgroups of green balancing so that they can balance energy production within the group, and thus bear less responsibility for imbalances. But unfortunately, it wasn't supported and, really, the things that are now in this bill, they're not helping to develop a green energy market. I'm not talking about the green tariff, because it's different things. We don't touch on this issue in these bills, in these revisions that I'm making. We're saying that either the country supports the development of the green generation and supports the energy transition, or it creates obstacles. And these things that in this law create obstacles. That's why I'm asking you to support the green generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u103	Amendment 14, we vote. [[11:26:30.]] For-88 It's not coming through. Amendment No. 17 of the people's MP Martovitchki. Don't insist. Correction 19, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment 20, Podlisecki. Don't insist. Amendment number 28, Yoff. Don't insist. Amendment 29, Martinowski. Don't insist. Amendment 30, Walking. Don't insist. Amendment number 40, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Amendment number 41, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment number 44, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment 45, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Amendment number 46, Sažko. Don't insist. Correction. Excuse me, please. Amendment 51, Dublin. Don't insist. Amendment 54, Joff. Don't insist. Amendment 56, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 57th, Sažko. Don't insist. Yeah, let's move on. Suzko, 62nd. Don't insist. 65th, Yof. Don't insist. 71st, Sažko. Don't insist. Odarchenko, 74th. Don't insist. Thank you, Mr. Odarchenko. 81st, Podlisecki. Don't insist. Saska, 82nd. Don't insist. Ioffe, 83rd. Don't insist. Saska, 85th. Don't insist. Martovitch, 87th. Don't insist. Martovitch, '90s. Don't insist. Odarchenko, 95th. Don't insist. Suzko, 96th. Don't insist. Martovitch, 99th. Don't insist. Saska, 100th. Don't insist. Pisarenko, 103rd. Don't insist. 104th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 105th, Rybchin. He insists on being firm. Please, he's got a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u104	What do we see in this bill? We see that the level of renewable energy development, it doesn't keep track of the world's trends. Please take a look at the subsidies. And these are priorities that clearly demonstrate the numbers. In 2015, for example, 134 billion dollars of government support for fossil fuels were allocated from the budget, and only 6.1 percent of the support is issued, which is about four thousand dollars from the stated amount. The same applies to energy efficiency. The budget for 2017 provides 50 billion dollars of municipal housing subsidies for fossil fuels and only 800 million dollars for energy efficiency and consumption reductions, which is less than 2 percent. The same logic in this law is not to support a new generation, not to support development and low-carbon technologies, but to support that generation and preserve the state of things that are now in our energy, to develop an atomic generation, to develop only fossil fuels, coal fuels, not to develop renewable energy sources. I think it's wrong and I'm asking you to vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u105	Please, according to the insistence of the People’s Deputy Rybchin, 105 amendments shall be voted upon. Alexi, but if you're able to invest in 30 seconds, we'll be grateful because you didn't vote for the extension of your day. [[11:30:00]] Z-77 No, you're not. Let's move on. 108th, Martovici. Don't insist. 110th, Sazko. Don't insist. I haven't got to 117 yet. 117 A.D., it's taken into account. They're demanding. Alexei, Alexei Podlisecki. Mrs. Oksana. I'm going to Alexi right now. Aleksy Podlisecki, you're confirmed for your 117th amendment. I'm giving you 30 seconds of Yvchenko and then I'm giving you an explanation. Please, Mr. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u106	Mrs. Irina, I ask you (Vadim Ivchenko, faction of Fatherland) not to violate the Rules. I have a minute. Thank you. First, colleagues, we saw what happened after the adoption of the Natural Gas Market Act -- prices rose four times, and problems remained the same. We have already witnessed the immobilization of the direct rise in tariffs or the connection to electrical networks. which is now being made by the decision of the NCRECR. Such a fundamental Law on the Market in Electricity should address four basic tasks. The purpose of the bill should be clearly defined, and the model for the functioning of the electricity market should be clearly defined by persons of the market, their functions, their rights, their duties, and their relationships. There must be a clearly described mechanism for the introduction of the law and the transition from present conditions to market conditions. The proposed bill does not solve the above - mentioned problem. That's why I'm asking you to make this right for confirmation, and I'm not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u107	Please, Alexia to the Podlisecki word. Please, Mr. Podlisecki's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u108	Honourable MPs, 117 revisions, if I did, correctly understood, put it on confirmation, it settles a lot of questions regarding networking. The corresponding is in the glossary of definitions and linear parts of integration, and the wage rates for the linear part, and the standard addition, the formulation of what it is, and the definition of the first, second degree standard connection, the rate of wages for the standard connection, the rate of payment for the non-standard, the type of electrical installation. So this is a huge set of questions. There's something I don't understand why I'm going to put on a bill that's going to completely kick the bill out of my mind. Or it's a special, deliberate way to make the law go down -- and I hope the Fatherland representatives don't do it -- or we'll do it properly. I think it's absolutely necessary to confirm this amendment, and to put it on the stand is a crime, I can honestly say.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, when we voted on the previous bill, we also voted on the amendment of 25, which even the faction that put it to the confirmation voted to turn back. Maybe now. Well, as headwoman, it's simple. You insist that we reform the law now and cut it out. But, as I understand it, then the committee will insist on returning this amendment. At the request of the representative of Fatherland, we now place number 117 to confirm the amendment. The committee's asking for support. I ask you to vote, colleagues, to identify yourself in the hall. [[11:34:32]] For 109 Let's move on, dear fellows. 123rd. Martovitch. Don't insist. 127th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 128th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 129th. I've been walking. Don't insist. 130th. Dubinin. Don't insist. 132nd. I've been walking. Don't insist. 133rd. Martovitch. Don't insist. 134th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 135th. Oh, I'm sorry. It's counted. 136th. I've been walking. Don't insist. 141th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 142nd. It's a hat. Don't insist. 146th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 160th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 162nd. It's a hat. Don't insist. 167th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 178th. Dubinin. Don't insist. 182nd. Martovitch. Don't insist. 183rd. Martovitch. Don't insist. 184th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 186. It's a hat. Don't insist. 187th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 194th. Odarchenko. Don't insist. 199th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 200th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 204th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 205th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 206th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 208th. It's a hat. Don't insist. 209th. Ioff. Don't insist. 213, Sažko. Don't insist. 215th, Walking. Don't insist. 218th, Sažko. Don't insist. 219, Vanat. Don't insist. 221st, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 225th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 226th, Sažko. Don't insist. 227th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 228th, Sažko. Don't insist. Yeah, we're moving on. 233, Sažko. Don't insist. 234th Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. Don't insist. 239th. Don't insist on Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. 243rd, Sažko. Don't insist. 244th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 245th, Sažko. Don't insist. 248, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 249, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 250th, Sažko. Don't insist. 251, Sažko. Don't insist. 252th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 258, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 259, Sažko. Don't insist. 260th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 261, Sažko. Don't insist. 264th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 265, Sažko. Don't insist. 269, Pavlov. Don't insist. 274th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 275, Sažko. Don't insist. 276, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 277th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 278, Sažko. Don't insist. 281, Walking. Don't insist. 284th, Walking. Don't insist. 285th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 286th, Sažko. Don't insist. 289, Odarchenko. Don't insist. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, 291st. Don't insist. 292th. Don't insist. Oh, this is Paul. This isn't Victor Mikhailovich. Paul does not insist. Victor Mikhailovich, I'm sorry I gave you four other people's amendments. But you honestly said you didn't insist. 295th, Dublin. Don't insist. 296th, Dublin. Don't insist. 299th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 300th, Sažko. Don't insist. 302, Dubinin. Don't insist. 312, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 313, Dove. Don't insist. 315th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 317, Dove. Don't insist. 319, Sažko. Don't insist. 321st, Sažko. Don't insist. 324th, Sažko. Don't insist. 325th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 326th, Sažko. Don't insist. 328th, Sažko. Don't insist. 330, Sažko. Don't insist. 332nd, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 333rd, Sažko. Don't insist. 334th, Sažko. Don't insist. 335, Podlisecki. It's counted. 336, Sažko. Don't insist. 337th, Sold. Please, the microphone. It requires a confirmation. Mr. Podlisecki, would you please fix all the amendments that apply to the confirmation? Please, Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u110	Please place on confirmation amendment 337 that removes from the draft text the obligation of market participants to be responsible for the security of electricity supply within the scope of their activities. I am convinced that this rule should remain in the law and therefore I ask for confirmation of amendment 337. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u111	Committee position. Please. The lion of the Podlisecki microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u112	Amendment 337 deletes such a point that participants in the electricity market should plan and take measures in accordance with the safety rules for the supply of electricity specified in this article and be responsible for the security of electricity supply within their activities. In fact, these moments are regulated in many other places, so it was not appropriate to duplicate them, and it took into account the rights of Deputy Sage to remove them. So the committee took the decision to delete. But I think we can put it to a vote. I'll take the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u113	So the committee doesn't essentially deny it. Okay. Dear colleagues! We're going to be determined, please. We're betting on confirmation of amendment 337. Please vote. [[11:42:04]] For-79 Let's move on. 79, unconfirmed amendment. 342nd, Sažko doesn't insist. 343, Sažko doesn't insist. 343, Sažko doesn't insist. 345th, Martovitchki doesn't insist. 346, Sažko doesn't insist. 347th. Please, Mrs. Prodan's microphone. She insists on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Leve, dear colleagues! Amendments 347 and 348 have the same meaning. And both of these amendments are foreseen in Article 17, Operational Supply Security, that the technical capacity reserve of market operators should be provided exclusively on interstate electricity networks, in interstate electricity networks. Well, I'm sure there's a technical reserve to be provided on all networks. So I'm asking you to put it on confirmation and still in law to determine the obligation to provide a technical capacity reserve for all networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u115	Thank you. Will the committee comment or bet on confirmation? Leo, will you comment? Please, it's the Podlissian microphone. I heard, Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u116	In fact, the technical reserve actually applies to international lines. And accordingly, maintaining the state's ability to export electricity, it refers to its own export capabilities. That's why we, the committee, think that it's the right thing to do. We suggest we support the vote and account for 347th, 348th, just like the committee did.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u117	Colleagues, I'm going to ask you to confirm 347 now, then 348. The committee's asking for support. Please vote, 347th. [[11:44:17]] For 1052 102 votes. Not supported. And 348, please. [[11:44:34]] For-94 94 people's deputies. Not supported. Let's move on. 362th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 363, Martovici. Don't insist. 364th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 365th, Oxana Sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Leve, I have a question about 365 and 366 amendments, which are similar. And in fact, they're greatly expanding, on the one hand, the regulatory authority in the part of the electrical connection, on the other hand, partially regulates the connection relationship. As far as I'm concerned, it's too much of an extension of the regulator's authority. I'd like to put it on confirmation 365, 366 or that. I just want to hear Mr. Lev's answer right now, should I bet or not? Because these amendments are ambiguous, on the one hand, better, on the other hand, worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u119	Please turn on the Podlisecki microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u120	So this is about article 21, namely, connecting electrical installations to electrical networks. It's very complex, and I've noticed that it's partially counted. In fact, we've had a lot of discussion about this bill, which is how ideal and best to write the rules of association. We've actually defined different options, and the last variants have been written down, in fact, in 117 directions, which were suggested for confirmation, and now here at 365. In the end, a lot of authority relies on the NCREKP, because it is a regulator that defines and proposes a method of connection. And it defines the order and formula of the calculation. But this bill provides for the philosophy of this question, and it provides that we have a standard connection that today is a non-standard connection that consists of two bets: a bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, let's put it to 365 and then 366. Will you please finish? Please give another 30 seconds to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u122	I would've asked you not to bet. So if you put it on confirmation, you have to support it, because it's an entire article, it's going to happen, it's going to have to be completely rewritten or it's going to be passed into a separate law. This is definitely unacceptable. So please withdraw your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, a very thorough explanation came from a representative of the profile committee, and Ms. Prodan takes these amendments off the vote. We're moving on. And Fatherland insists on putting both of them on confirmation. We have a repetitive history with 25 articles of the previous law. I'm charging 365 with a request from Fatherland, representatives of the national MP Yvchenka for confirmation. Please vote. Dear colleagues, the committee is very much asking for a vote in favour. Oksana Prodan has also heard an explanation. It won't help, believe me. We vote, and then we make decisions. Vote. Well, just now you're cooling the law out again. [[11:48:19]] For-93 I'm asking Fatherland for 366 confirmations, please. [[11:48:41]] For-94 94 votes. Let's move on. 360. Now, it's us. The 366th was voted on. 368, Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u124	Thank you. This amendment also applies to connection. This is a disgraceful phenomenon that has now taken place, and when the regulator has changed the cost of connecting electricity to networks from 160 kilowatts to 5 megawatts, which includes alternative energy, small and medium - size enterprises, industrial and agricultural enterprises, social facilities, and the cost of connectivity has increased. People will pay 50,000 or 60,000 dollars more when they give up the new building. Renewable energy sources are basically artificial barriers to their development. Not enough that their imbalances have brought them disgraceful, even with these things, it's already done by the regulator. And I can't understand why we can't resolve these issues and actually cancel this connection or make it as affordable as possible, not to make it available to monopolists. So please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u125	Please confirm the amendment number 368, we vote. [[11:50:14]] For-98 And we're moving on. 370th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 372, Sažko. Don't insist. 374th, Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u126	Alexy Rybczyn "The Fatherland." This amendment also applies to connection-related issues, specifically using renewable energy sources, and is proposed to set a deadline for responding to the application. So not only do we have a question of value-added, but we also have the question that people who want to connect have artificial barriers, that they still have to go to regulators and other power lines and ask them to connect, and they don't even know when they're going to do it. So I don't understand why these amendments have been rejected, and I ask them to put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u127	According to the insistence of Deputy Rybkin, 374 are valid for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:51:27]] For-92 Alexia, now you have three revisions: 375ths, 376ths, 377ths. Oksana Prodan in her speech put it all together, maybe you don't, not for three minutes, maybe now you're going to talk about each, we're going to put it to a vote? Please, 375 revisions. Turn on Rybkin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u128	Thank you. These adjustments are determined on the basis of which the document is based on an assessment of the value of the connection. The required wage calculation is also reflected in the following revisions, which are edited. So this also needs to be taken into account because it adds that the methodology will be approved by the appropriate body. But the methods that we now have, I repeat for those who hear us, they just destroy this market and make profits for monopolies, it's impossible to develop a small, medium-sized business, it's impossible to develop renewable energy sources, it's impossible for people to settle in apartments, because it's making them go crazy. And so we've created such an independent regulator who's giving us subscriptions, and we've heard a lot of things about this. It is true that when President Poshenko of Ukraine said to suspend this decision, it was suspended. When faction leaders said, they didn't stop. When the government said not to stop, they didn't. When the President said it was done. So we have shame with this independent regulator and shame with these rights that they just didn't count. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u129	Thank you for explaining. Colleagues, please support the three revisions in a row we will now put to the vote Alexia Rybkin, concerning the improvement of green energy. 375, please. [[11:53:22]] Z-87 Please 376 amendments to Alexia Rybkin, please support. [[11:53:41]] Z-70. 70 deputies. And the 377 amendment of Alexia Rybchin. Please be supportive. [[11:53:59]] For-72 72 deputies. They don't pass. 379 Amendment, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 381, Alexei Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u130	Yes, it's a very important amendment that also applies to joining. And the law suggests minimizing the customer's personal contacts with network operators. This is very important for small objects. For example, you wanted to set up a little solar station on your roof to generate this energy, and not the monopolies were making money on you, but you were making green energy. This is done in Germany, it's done in the United States, it's done in developed countries. We're developing big stations. I'm not against big stations, big business, but I want energy to belong to people, not oligarchs. And that's the norm we tried to reduce the customer's contact with network operators, but that was not supported. We support, Fatherland, the development of energy-efficient villages, so that villages can turn on vaccines or pellets so that people can create energy cooperatives, generate electricity for themselves and not consume it from the market. However, this law preserves this status when monopolies possess energy rather than, as in all the Western world, people possess it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u131	I see. Please have 381 amendments, Fish, put to the vote. Dear colleagues, we have a lot of changes. And I'll continue the session for 15 minutes, until 12:15. [[11:55:32]] Z-87 87 votes. Not supported. 383rd, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 385th, Rybchin. Don't insist. 391, Sažko. Don't insist. 392, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 392 is someone out there. Ah, Mr. Matvienko is asking for 392th. And it's rejected, this amendment. Please turn on the microphone. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this amendment, for what reasons. I asked Mr. Dombrowski why this amendment was not taken into account. He explained to me that these were the recommendations of the European Energy Community. I understand European liberalism, but we need to understand the real state of Ukraine. What does it mean to leave the first edition, the first reading? This means the risk of isolation from Ukraine's energy system of infrastructure fragments, the emergence of a new controller. We have a war! We don't know what's going to happen in Lugansk, Donetsk, Crimea. We're going to get another new regulator. You can't let that happen. This amendment should be voted on. They had networks, they were in the structure, they owned the same property as the Ukrenergo System National Operator. And I ask her to vote. But, Mrs. Irina, I am addressing you: to vote not now, because all the factions support it, but to vote before that -- people are now taking a break, but to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u133	The rules require that it be voted on now, but then we will simply return to it. Okay! I've got a 392. We'll be back before the vote is complete. 396, Sažko. Don't insist. 398th, Sažko. Don't insist. 399th, Yof. Don't insist. Let's move on. Martovitch, 406. Don't insist. 407, Sažko. Don't insist. 421th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 422nd, Pavlov. Don't insist. 423rd, Sažko. Don't insist. 425th, Sažko. Don't insist. 430th, Sažko. Don't insist. 431s, Sažko. Don't insist. 432nd, Sažko. I'm sorry, Pavlov. Don't insist. 434th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 436th, Pavlov. Don't insist. 437th, Sažko. Don't insist. 445th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 446th, Sažko. Don't insist. 449, Lunchenko. Don't insist. 453, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 454, Sažko. Don't insist. 456th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 457th, Sažko. Don't insist. 460s, Bandurov. Don't insist. 461, Sažko. Don't insist. 462th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 463, Pavlov doesn't insist. 465th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 466th, Pavlov. Don't insist. 467th, Sažko. Don't insist. 469th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. The 470s, Sažko. Don't insist. 473, Pavlov. Don't insist. 476th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 477th, Sažko. Don't insist. 479th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 480s, Sažko. Don't insist. 481, Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u134	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. For me, this is a key piece of paper that we filed with my colleague, Natalie Katser-Buchkowski, from the People's Front. This allows the regulator to issue licences and set a green tariff on the basis of the beginning of construction or the entry into service, i.e. never. I mean, this green tariff right now after you've built it completely and you still have no guarantee that it's going to be installed. So we're trying to simplify the development of the green generation, and for me not to count this amendment -- it's actually such a litmus paper of the unwillingness of the drafters to develop and give priority to supporting the green generation, and it's a preservation of the general state that we have in the country. I hope that the new energy strategy will change this situation by 2035, and then we can get back to these issues. However, if there is a 20/20/20 strategy in the European Union, which says that we need to increase 20 percent GDE, reduce consumption by 20 percent, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent, we don't have that strategy. And now we see that we have a conservation of fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u135	Please, Your Honor, the 481st Amendment. Vote. [[12:01:01]] For-92 The rapporteur monitors all the bills. 503rd, no insistence, Martovitch. 504th. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, we've got to keep an eye out. You fix it, we'll be back in the end. We'll be back. I've already announced 503 amendments. Then we'll come back. 505th. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are you yelling at? I'll get the repairs. Follow them, please. I've been here a long time. We just voted 481. 485 Fatherland requires confirmation. 485, this is the amendment of the Sage People's Deputy. Please, Yvchenko, microphone, and then Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u136	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the amendment that she's talking about exporting electricity to manufacturers. But what I really want to say is that this bill preserves communal energy slavery, consumer lawlessness and its subordination to market participants directly. The market model laid down in the bill deprives the consumer of any right to choose forms and models of energy supply. It's the supply, it's not the supply, it's the energy, it's not just the electricity, it's the energy, it's not just the energy, it's the energy markets that's developed, it's not long since they've been within communal housing. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to apply for confirmation and fail it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u137	Please, Mr. Podlisecki's microphone. And Mr. Podlisecki says you're talking about another amendment at all, Mr. Yvchenko. He will now comment on your position, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u138	485, yeah. 485 reads that manufacturers have the right to export and import electricity. The 485th revision is editorial. It simply replace the word "export and import" with the word "export and import." If you're editorially so. You want it to sound like that, I don't see a problem. But it's, I think, literaryly even incorrect.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u139	Please, the 485th amendment is confirmed. It's editorial, technical, but they insist. [[12:04:19]] For 124 Oksana Prodan insists that we ask for confirmation. Leo, don't be distracted, because now Oxana Sales is putting 498 amendments to the confirmation. Please, Mrs. Sold the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u140	498 and 499 amendments are similar to the contents, and they provide for the elimination of the standard that fuel reserve costs have to be related to operating costs. I'm sure that the cost that an operator has to charge itself can be increased indefinitely, but the norm is that the fuel reserve should refer to the operating costs that should remain in this project. So I'm asking you to make two amendments to 498 and 499 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u141	Please comment, Mr. Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u142	You know, when the electricity market will work, when every manufacturer will try to work the most effectively and reduce their costs to be competitive, I don't think it's even a matter of principle whether it's going to be one or the other spending on electricity, it's already his business. So, I think it's for the decision of the hall, we can put it on confirmation. We've taken these costs into account, because for at least two years, when there's a transition period to preparation, preparation for the introduction of the law and the electricity market, it makes sense accordingly, but it's for the decision of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u143	Please, at the request of Oksana, sold 498 for confirmation. The committee, you've heard the position, there's an amendment to the court's judgment. [[12:06:23]] For-129 And the next amendment to 499 is also for confirmation, at the request of Mrs. Sold. [[12:06:44]] For 128 126, 8, 128 national deputies. Let's move on. 503th, Martovitchki doesn't insist. 504th, Sažko doesn't insist. 505th, Martovitchki doesn't insist. 506th, Martovitchki doesn't insist. 507, Sažko doesn't insist. 508, Sažko doesn't insist. 509, Sažko doesn't insist. 510th, Sažko doesn't insist. Yeah, 515th. Don't insist on it. 517, Sažko doesn't insist. 518th, Sažko doesn't insist. 521th, walker doesn't insist. 522nd, the walker doesn't insist. 523rd, walker doesn't insist. Now, dear fellows. 540th, Sažko doesn't insist. 547th, Odarchenko doesn't insist. Don't insist on Odarchenko. 557th, Odarchenko doesn't insist the same. 558th, Martovitchki doesn't insist. 559th, Sažko doesn't insist. 560th, Martovitchki doesn't insist. 561, Sažko doesn't insist. 562nd, Dubinin doesn't insist. 563rd, Martovitzki doesn't insist. 564th, not necessarily. 565th, Rybchin insists. Please turn on the Ridder microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u144	Dear Mrs. Speaker, this is a case where I don't insist on my right hand, it's technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u145	I'm shocked! 569th. Don't insist on walking. 570. Don't insist on it. Let's move on. 572th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 573, Sažko. Don't insist. 574th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 575th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 576th, Sažko. Don't insist. 579th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 580s, Sažko. Don't insist. 581th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 584th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 585th, Sažko. Don't insist. 589th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 592nd, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 595th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 598th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 601, Martovici. Don't insist. 604th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 605th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 606th. Don't insist, Sažko. 607th, Martovitchki. 608th, Martovitchki. 609th. Martovitch doesn't insist. 613th, Martovici, and 614th. He doesn't insist. 615th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 616th, Sažko. Don't insist. 617th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 620th, Sažko, and 621th. Don't insist. 622th and 623rd, Martovic, and 624th. Don't insist. Let's move on. Martovitch, 628th. Don't insist. 631th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 632. Don't insist, Sažko. 633rd, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Let's move on. 638th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 639th, Sažko. Don't insist. 640th, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 641s, Sažko. Don't insist. 642nd, Sažko. Don't insist. 643, 644, 645, 646, 647, 648. The authors do not insist. 640. I'm sorry. 666th, Odarchenko, and 667th. Don't insist on Odarchenko. I'm sorry. Which one? On two? Odarchenka's microphone, it insists on 666th and 667th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u146	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, in the bill, the final consumer of citizens is a domestic consumer who is cut off from the choice because he is given a so-called universal service, which is monopolistic. My right suggests that the priority be given to the consumer of electricity. To this end, I propose that the mandatory language of the electricity contract be the penalty for unilateral refusal of the supplier’s contract. At the same time, the energy consumer should have the right to freely change the supplier. This is the market economy when the seller fights for the buyer. Otherwise, no civilized market is involved. Please vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u147	Thank you for explaining. Please, 666th, put to the vote. [[12:12:11]] For-74. Not supported. Please, 667th, put to the vote. Aah! I'm sorry. [[12:12:30.]] For-69 Please, you want to speak. Mr. Odarchenk's microphone. I just thought you said two things already. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u148	Amendment 667. I want to repeat that this law is designed for monopolies, for monopolies, for monopolies, for monopolies, or for monopolies. My 667 bill proposes to prohibit a unilateral change in the cost of electricity in cases where the price was fixed in the contract. This will help consumers to fight the monopoly. If we're going to the market economy, government regulation is going to go down, and the agricultural side becomes equal. If we have an energy market, why should it not be governed by the law of the market? I propose to accept this right and to guarantee to the consumer that throughout the entire year of the electricity supply contract, its price can be changed solely with the consent of the parties, I emphasize, with the consent of the parties. These are contractual relationships that work in the market economy. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u149	We already voted her, 68 votes she won. And we're moving on. 674th, Sažko. Don't insist. 679th, Dublin. Don't insist. Next, Odarchenko 685. You insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the law in general rules down the rights of the consumer, it creates a system of hard pressure on the consumer and the setting of a monopoly price. The bill provides that the supplier has the right at any time to increase the cost of electricity. Dear colleagues, think of it as a one-way street, and we're told it's like a market. In such a case, the consumer has about 20 days to either agree or break the relationship with the supplier. Because there is no real competition in the electricity market, in most cases the consumer will have to agree, so we have no choice. That's what you're offering us, you're offering people a choice without a choice. So we suggest that the change in the price of electricity can only take place if the parties agree, as is the case in other sectors of the economy. In farm relations, the parties should be equal, whether they are selling bread or grain or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u151	Please put to the vote Amendment 685 Darchenka. Please vote 685. [[12:15:35]] For-86
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u152	86, you don't make a decision. Dear colleagues, 12:15, and now I'm calling a half-hour break. And I would like to emphasize to the authors of those laws that stand at the end of the second hour that we will lose these half-hours to review the bill after lunch in the humanitarian and social policy bloc. So 30-minute break. At 12:45, we will continue our work on the drafts of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. We're continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Electricity Market. We've gone by about half a line. I'm asking the right-wing authors to prepare for further work, and the reporter is to take a seat in the rostrum. And I'm asking Irina Heratchenko to continue her paperwork. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u154	We keep working. 70th, Sazko. Don't insist. 72nd, Pavlov. Don't insist. 704, Odarchenko. He insists. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u155	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there was a lot of ruling coalition that said that we would literally defeat Russian aggression for hours. But in this law we're even the institutions, the parts that are going to buy electricity are going to depend on monopolies. Look, the market is a market, but in a war-torn country, it is impossible to allow electricity to be cut off from military units, border posts, control stations. So I suggest that individual categories of protected consumers cannot be separated from the grid at all. Costs can be collected, but it is not possible to disrupt the normal work of vital objects for the State because of the timely payment of electricity or the exceedance of limits. Therefore, honourable colleagues, MPs from BP put it. That's the problem. I ask you to vote most of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u156	Please put to the vote 704 the amendment of the Odarchenka People's Deputies. [[12:50:02]] For-43 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 709th, Odarchenka. Don't insist. 711, Pilisecki. Don't insist. 712th, 713th, 714th, 715th, 716th, 717th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 718th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. Then, please, the amendments will work and hold Mrs. Siroid's meetings. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u157	Thank you. We're continuing our work. Let us continue to consider the amendments. 741st People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist. 752th, Walking. Don't insist. 767th, Odarchenko. 762th, right? Please, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u158	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the 762nd and 763rd revisions are all about universal services. See what is proposed in the bill. It is proposed that the final consumer, or citizen of Ukraine, receive universal service directly from that monopoly that will be placed. This will, of course, lead to risks of unjustified, speculative price rises, and above all, European practice tells us about demonopolization, about demonization of production, supply, and consumption of electricity. After the adoption of the third energy package within the EU, the company cannot simultaneously produce electricity and own networks. Colleagues, that's what allowed the monopoly to be weakened at last, and we have a monopoly in the energy market, and these changes, they completely undermine the consumer's ability to choose an electricity supplier. Please don't support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u159	Your offer for confirmation? 762th and 763rd? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the national council. Please, Mr. Leve, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u160	Mr. Yvchenko, I really don't understand: do you support European directives or do you object? Do you speak for the division of activity or do you object? Because if you're a division of activities and you think that's the right thing to do, then you have to adopt the law, and I think that's what "Paternity" should do. And what you said about 762 revisions, that's what you said. where this is about the universal service provider. This is to provide electricity to defenseless, small, and non-living consumers so that they can be helped more easily. So it's a common European practice where people get tougher criteria for selecting a supplier when they're universal. The universal service provider is the same supplier as other suppliers, but with more stringent criteria. And in order to become a supplier for the population, you still have to meet those criteria, win a competition that will run the Cabinet of Ministers and approve it, only then will it be.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u161	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u162	So defeating this amendment means leaving all citizens of Ukraine completely defenseless, unable to maintain quality. quality service for your own consumption. You cannot categorically reject these amendments, which are supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u163	Are you insisting? Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 762 of the People's Deputy Podlisecki of the People's Deputy Ivchenka. Please vote. The committee is offering to support it. [[12:54:49]] For-76 The decision is not made. And then there's amendment number 763. At the initiative of the national deputy Yvchenka, he asks for confirmation. Correction of the People’s Deputy of Podlisecki. Please be supportive. The committee's asking for support. [[12:55:20]] For-83 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 767, People's Deputy Odarchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, this law, proposed by Kabmin, does not solve the main problem of creating competition between electricity producers and building the ability of consumers to influence them. You're proposing here to consolidate a monopoly of oligarchic structures that control the electricity market that's being marketed to the needs of the population. The bill provides that the universal service provider in one region can be only one, and therefore no competition can, in fact, be considered. I'm asking you to remove these positions from the law. If you want a market, you have to learn at least theoretical possibilities for competition. But at the same time, you're fixing the monopolies of the archery and removing electricity from the utility list. So a simple person will have to follow the market rules of buying electricity, but choosing a supplier won't be able to. It's a shush.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u165	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u166	That's absolutely not true, because any supplier can choose anyone. Any consumer can choose any supplier, and the universal service provider is only more qualified and responsible, selected for the competition by a supplier who is obliged to provide services to consumers and consumers. But a consumer can choose any other supplier from any region. And just this right thing that you're talking about, it actually sets the limits of the responsible universal service provider. So they're within that area, the region. But in the same territory there may be tens and twenty suppliers of others that the consumer can choose, the best that suits him. It's totally manipulative, and it's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u167	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please place amendment number 767 of People's Deputy Odarchenk for support. The committee does not support this. Please vote. [[12:58:00]] For-54 Thank you. Next amendment number 774, People's Deputy Podlisecki. Don't insist. What's that? Amendment 773. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u168	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to say that the model of the market in the bill deprives the consumer of any right to choose forms and models to provide energy. There is absolutely no definition of a qualified consumer in the project. What does that mean, colleagues? And that means that, according to a bill that, if any consumer is going to be freed from the electrician dictatorship, he is necessarily going to be the party responsible for the balance. Do the authors understand that small producers and consumers cannot afford equipment and measures to meet such requirements at a valid price for electricity for the consumer? I believe they understand. So it's probably lobbyist standards. I want 773 applications to be made for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u169	I'm asking the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u170	Mr. Yvchenko, please read the law before you say anything. In fact, the consumer is not responsible for imbalances. This is nonsense, absolutely not true. I'm here for you. That's why I called you. This is absolutely not the case. Consumers are not responsible for imbalances, and this is clearly defined in the law. So that doesn't exactly fit the reality. You said, in general, it's different here. I believe that this amendment should be supported, as it was supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u171	I'd like to ask you for confirmation. The committee is offering to support it. People's deputies, please. [[13:00:16]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Again? And we put 773 on confirmation. Now, please, for the 772th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Podlisecki for the initiative of the People’s Deputy Ivchenka. Please bet on confirmation. The committee supports. Please vote. [[13:00:58]] For-84 Amendment No. 788 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. 775th National Deputy Yvchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u172	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear reporter, I want to tell you that we're doing our analysis. And it's from this analysis that we define what we're doing. And if you're offering to create a market model today exclusively for valid monopolies, please say so. And what I want to say is this applies to alternative manufacturers who want to supply alternative energy sources. Trying to make the authors of the project responsible even the owner of the house, who installed solar batteries on the roof, is a hidden form of creating conditions for extraction from the market of such an alternative. That's why we're talking again, the lobbyist bill. He works directly for the monopolies. I want 775 copies so we can get confirmation and not back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u173	Do you insist on confirming the amendments? Please change number 775 of the National Deputy of Podlisecki, please confirm. The committee supports, please vote. [[13:02:32]] For-82 Amendment No. 788 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u174	My fellow Members, I support the opinion of the deputies who spoke before me, is an open-minded lobbyist law that strengthens the oligarchs in its influence on electricity prices. That's what my job is about. The bill envisions the creation of a supplier of "last hope", a supplier who cannot refuse to make a contract with the consumer. But the reasons for making such a treaty are very limited. So, for example, an industrial enterprise can stop as a result of the electricity supplier simply not agreeing with the terms of the contract and supply, and these disputes about the content of the contract will lead to the disconnection of the network. I therefore suggest that the supplier of the "last hope" appeared in a situation where the consumer could not agree with the main supplier of the contract. Please vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u175	May I have the vote, national MPs? The committee does not support this. [[13:04:15]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Please, amendment number 795, People's Deputy Odarchenko. Please turn on the microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the bill stipulates that the supplier of "last hope" supplies electricity to the consumer for no more than 90 days. But the bill doesn't say what happens next, what happens if the consumer can't find himself a supplier. What happens if the supplier does not deliberately agree to a contract for the purpose of, for example, pressure on the enterprise, pressure on its owner. There may be political pressure, and there may be economic pressure. In fact, we give suppliers the right to enter into a conspiracy and not to supply electricity to a particular consumer, and the consumer has the ability to provide guaranteed supplies for only 90 days. I suggest we rule that out. The last - hope provider and so market-unfavourable tariffs will want consumers to find a market supplier. And the provider of the final hope must act before the end of the work, the circumstances that led to the conclusion of the covenant with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u177	Thank you. Please put to the vote, the committee does not support, amendment number 795. [[13:05:50]] For-50 The decision is not made. Amendment No. 801, People's Deputy Rybchin. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment No. 809, People's Deputy Rybchin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u178	This is about our "honorable" and very independent controller. Because if a coalition so-called can know the voices by cooperating with other factions, and they can extend this law, we want the order of purchase of electricity at the green tariff to be. was determined by a regulator taking into account the provisions of the Law on the Regulatory of this Law. Because in view of the latest decisions taken by the NCREKP, we would like to emphasise that the regulator can act exclusively within the limits of the law and is independent of the rule of law. And now what we see is what the regulator does, and the subscription makes people 100, 150 dollars more pay, and businesses, small and medium-sized businesses, whose greenhouse energy production has fallen, for example, or, more specifically, gas consumption, seasonal production, they now have that decision that hasn't been suspended yet, but signed with the IMF, they're 2-7 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u179	Thank you. You insist on support. Please submit support for amendment No. 809 of the People's Deputies Rybchin, the committee does not support it. Please vote. [[13:07:36]] Z-62 Amendment 810, National Deputy Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u180	This amendment already applies to the so-called green-tariff producer balancing group. Once again, what's been rejected from the beginning is that I said that the main problem of a green generation that's not settled, unfortunately, in this bill, is imbalances, that is, all the fines that the producers of green energy have to pay, those investors that plan to enter Ukraine for what they misforesee. So we don't have a forecast service in the state. And we have to compromise to make the business invest, and the state also helps the business. Unfortunately, this law does not regulate the degree of compromise that it should be. And we talked to the producers, with the investor. To them, it's a very important signal that, unfortunately, Ukraine doesn't yet want to develop renewable energy sources, but rather, to invest, to create green jobs, to pay taxes in local budgets and to create energy decentralization, and to support that particular generation, not the kind of fossil that is in Ukraine today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u181	Thank you. I'm betting on an amendment of 810 people's deputies Rybchin, and the committee doesn't support it. Please vote. [[13:09:04]] For-59 Amendment 818, National Deputy Rybchin. Don't insist. Amendment No. 820, People's Deputy Doves. Don't insist. Amendment No. 822, People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist. Amendment No. 827, People's Deputy Odarchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to place amendment 826 on confirmation because it, in my opinion, strengthens the monopoly of electricity suppliers and narrows down consumer rights in general. Please place it on confirmation first.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u183	Members of the People’s Parliament may decide to support Amendment No. 826. The committee supports, please vote. [[13:10:14]] For-78 Amendment 827. You will be? — Psalm 37: 10, 11. National Deputy Odarchenko, will you comment on your amendment? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the fact that in the case of electricity production by burning fuel derived from wood, an entity producing such electricity is obliged to confirm the origin of such wood and the legality of its cutting in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the event that such confirmation or misinformation is not provided, such an electric power generator is deprived of the license, and the electricity it produces cannot be purchased by any participant in the electricity market. Dear colleagues, all landings and forests are being illegally cut off. I am an MP elected by Hersonian, and I can testify that today, as a result of illegal logging, including pellets, today in Hersson, a dust storm, the desert returns to Hersonian. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u185	Please, amendment number 827. Please vote. The committee does not support this. [[13:11:50]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Amendment 835, Guliva. Don't insist. Amendment 836, People's Chamberlain Pisarenko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 837, national deputy of the Ephesians. Don't insist. Amendment No. 838, National Deputy Rybchin. Don't insist. Amendment No. 839, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 840, national deputy of the Ephesians. Don't insist. Amendment 841, People's Deputies Ryabchin, Katzer-Buchkowska. Please, National Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u186	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. It's an important readjustment, which. There is an important clarification to avoid the cash breaks and debts of a guaranteed buyer before the green generation. So it gives you the right to a guaranteed buyer and is calculated by the green tariff set for him in each month's accounting period. Unfortunately, we had cases where the regulator of the past. Two years ago, in his own decision, he suspended compensation for the green tariff to the producers and they were tried, including by the European authorities. Then it wasn't finally settled, but we wanted to secure the protection of the green generation from arbitrary actions that might be associated with this adoption of the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u187	Please, I'm putting to the vote amendment number 841 of the people's deputies Rybchin and Katzer-Buchkowski. Please vote, the committee does not support it. [[13:13:39]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 842, National Deputy Bandurov. Don't insist. Amendment No. 843, People's Deputy of Bandurov. Don't insist. Amendment No. 844, People's Deputy Martovicki. Don't insist. He's insisting. No, it's not. Amendment 845, national deputy Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 853, People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist. Amendment No. 854, People's Deputy Martovicki. Don't insist. Amendment No. 855, People's Deputy Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u188	Yes. Please, this amendment and another 841. Oh, 858s, 859s and 860s. They refer again to a question that has not been resolved by this bill, it is an imbalance. A decision was made to bring the producers together in the c. and to balance them together. And this was not supported, as was most of the other proposals. My impression. My suggestion was that they should really be responsible for imbalances in order to develop the metrology market. However, when you have one percent of a generation in the country from renewable energy sources, one percent, we put extra pressure on them instead of bringing them into the country for the hands of these investors and helping to develop the market. You can do it with balance, if, for example, we have in the country, there, 5 percent of already renewable energy sources, I don't know, 6, 4. You can do that, but when we only have one percent and there's a very large number of people willing to invest in this market, bring currency here, bring investment here, we don't help them. And that's why I don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u189	You propose to support four amendments: 855th, 858th, 859th, 860th. Please, I'll take my turn. Amendment No. 855. Please vote. The committee does not support this. [[13:16:01]] Z-70. The decision is not made. Next amendment: No. 858. I'll bet you a vote. The committee does not support this. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:16:20]] For-61 Next amendment: No. 859. Please vote. The committee does not support this. [[13:16:42]] For-56 The decision is not made. And the last one in this series is amendment number 860. Please vote. The committee does not support this. [[13:17:05]] For-59 The decision is not made. Next. 863rd National Deputy Martovitchki. Don't insist. Next. 864th National MP Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u190	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. First of all, I want to thank those MPs who conscientiously do their jobs, do not go, do not smoke, do not eat, but vote and support the amendments, considering at all what the flaws of this bill are. And I thank you very much for supporting my amendments and amendments to my colleagues on green energy. This correction sets the maximum limit or cap of responsibility for imbalances by three percent of the green tariff costs for the responsible period. It's another proposal for dealing with imbalances, but it wasn't counted, unfortunately, by the working group. Therefore, a request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u191	You insist, don't you? Please put to the vote Amendment No. 864 of the People's Deputy Rybchin. The committee does not support this. Please vote. [[13:18:25]] Z-70. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 865 Rib. Don't insist. Next amendment number 867. Odarchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u192	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, there is a lot of talk about this in this room. They say the woods are illegally cut down. especially in Western Ukraine, which is causing irreparable damage to our country's ecology. And I'm surprised that when it comes to billing items that control the logging of energy - related fuels, no one votes. Everyone stopped screaming about the forest being destroyed. This amendment states that in the case of electricity production, by burning a fuel that is derived from wood, an entity producing such electricity is obliged to confirm the origin of such wood and the legality of its cutting in accordance with the law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u193	Please. I'm voting on Amendment 867. The committee does not support this. Please vote. [[13:19:59]] Z-70. The decision is not made. Next amendment number 868, National Deputy Rybchin. Don't insist. Number 869, Rybchin. Don't insist. Number 870. Don't insist. Next number 872, National Deputy Ryabchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u194	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. This is an adjustment to the calculation, and this amendment was offered to me by the RPR. And I'd like the hall to support this adjustment to increase the reliability of the electricity supply and the quality of the produced and released distributed energy. Today there's also a bill on accounting, it's so controversial. We need to raise any price for gas, what you dictate to this government, and what you make a political decision. In general, all the apartments or buildings needed to be equipped with heat meters, where necessary, for people to pay for what they had consumed. And now we have, we know what the accounting situation is, and so this shameful situation needs to be rectified. I'm asking you to support an amendment that is lashed out by colleagues from the Reanimation Package Reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u195	Please. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 882 of the People's Deputy Rybchin. The committee does not support this. Please vote. [[13:21:43]] For-65 The decision is not made. The next 889 amendment, National Deputy Martovicki. Don't insist. Next 890, National Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. Next 891st, Sažko. Don't insist. 896th National Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. 897th National Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. Next 899, Sažko. Don't insist. 900th, Sažko. Don't insist. 901, Sažko. Don't insist. 902, Sažko. Don't insist. Next 904, Sažko, National Deputy. Don't insist. 905, National Deputy Martovicki. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I'll take a break with your permission. The European Parliament has just approved a visa-free regime between Ukraine and the countries of the European Union. [[Applause]] I sincerely welcome all our fellow countrymen. I recall 144 requirements were for the Ukrainian Parliament, 144 reforms that changed Ukraine, which brought us closer to European standards of living, to living in a family of free peoples, free and decent living. Thank our European colleagues for their support and faith in Ukraine. During the Dignity Revolution, there were European Union flags on the barricades next to the blue and yellow flags. This clearly points to our geopolitical direction, to our civilizational choice. And I welcome all the Ukrainian people, all the fellow national MPs. And thank you to our brothers is the European Parliament. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Colleagues who have tapes, take them as a symbol of our long journey, as a symbol of our common victory, the victory of all Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! Let's get to work, colleagues. Let's get to work. We work for the European future of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u197	Please continue our work with European encouragement and zeal. Come on. Amendment No. 906, People's Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment number 907, I was walking. Don't insist. Amendment number 908, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Amendment number 909, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment 910, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Amendment number 911, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment number 912, walkie-talkie. Don't insist. Amendment 915, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment number 917, Podlisecki. Don't insist. Amendment number 918, Podlisecki. Don't insist. Amendment No. 933, the People’s Deputy of Podlisecki does not insist. Amendment 934. People's MP Dubinin doesn't insist. Amendment 935, National Deputy Dubinin doesn't insist. Amendment No. 937, Odarchenko does not insist. Amendment number 944, National Deputy Bandourov insists. Amendment 945, Martovitchki does not insist. Amendment number 946, Zazko doesn't insist. Amendment 949, Martovitchki does not insist. Amendment 950, Zazko doesn't insist. Amendment number 952. National MP Yvchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u198	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to welcome each one of us. We've really adopted the laws that are needed to get this zero. So, believe me, a warm welcome to every MP. But for now, I want to say, colleagues, Copenhagen, it gets 95 percent from alternative energy sources to its city. In Oslo, any resident can directly contact a supplier who is in another country and get electricity directly from there. In Austria and Germany, biogas stations and people working directly in agriculture provide whole energy cooperatives in rural areas. And that makes it possible to develop alternative sources of energy. This bill does not provide for a group of consumers to build such a network for themselves. The authors propose to join either centralized power lines or no connections. So I'm asking you to apply for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u199	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u200	Well, first of all, what I'm trying to say is that the European Parliament, which we're very happy about, for his decision, he's demanding the adoption of the Power Market Act. Appropriately, this is very objective and our requirement for us. And we have to do it. The second question. What you said about the green generation, which I clearly also personally support, has no relation to 952 revisions, it just writes about another. So to speak, speak about good things and say, let's just put a vote to a vote just to knock them down and to break the law, I don't think it's European. So I'm asking the entire room to back up this bill by the 952 committee to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u201	Thank you. Please place number 952 on confirmation. The committee supports. Please vote. [[13:28:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 953, National Deputy Bandurov. Are there any amendments to the national MP Bandurov that he insists on? None. National MP Sažko, repair number. National MP Martovitchki, amendment number 954. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u202	I'm asking for confirmation of the amendment. There I propose changes: in paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of section XVII, "Ending and transitional positions", the word "bilateral contracts" should be deleted and the second sentence deleted. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u203	What's the amendment number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u204	954 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u205	I get it. Please be supportive. Please vote for the people's deputies. The committee does not support this. Amendment number 954. Vote. [[13.29:35]] For-86 National MP Martovicki, are there other amendments that you will insist on? No, it's not. All right, then let's go to the repairs. All of it. Please, National Deputy Sažko, 955 revisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u206	Please place this amendment on confirmation. In paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of section "Final positions" and "Transitional positions" of the bill, the word "bilateral contracts" should be deleted, the second sentence should be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u207	Please vote, Amendment 955 of the Sage People's Deputies does not support the committee. [[13:30:23]] Z-87 Correction number. What's that? Turn on the microphone, please, People's Deputy Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I ask you to submit for confirmation 956 amendments. The draft for the second reading provides illegal anti-competitive advantages for NAC "Energot", namely the exclusive right to export electricity. This is a violation of liberalised market principles, a substitute for the main idea of creating competitive market conditions for a new market, a pre-comprehensible corruption scheme, an artificial removal of other suppliers from the market, which in no way corresponds to the concept of European directives. In order to avoid this discriminatory situation, please make an amendment to 956. And, Madam Chairman, 957 amendments please be submitted for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u209	Please comment on 956th and 957th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u210	I want to clarify. There's two paragraphs in the 956 right here. Accordingly, the paragraph that Mr. Martovicki was talking about is obviously the second paragraph that gives the manufacturer the right to produce nuclear power, and this is the State Company Energoatoma, to export electricity in case of power surpluses that are not involved in the production of electricity for Ukraine's needs. And this is actually the second paragraph of this right. So I suggest that the room be defined, actually, for that second paragraph, I am correct, Mr. Martovitchki, I say yes. It's about the second paragraph, whether it gives the power of the energy company too much to run or not. I think it's for the hall to decide. The committee offered to support
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u211	Please vote. Amendment 956, please, the committee supports, please vote. [[13:32:57]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 957. We're putting her on the stand, and yes, Deputy Martovicki has proposed. There is already a proposal, please state the amendment number 957, the committee supports. [[13:33:28]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 958. Amendment No. 958, People's Deputy Podlisecki. Don't insist. Amendment No. 959, Bandurov. Don't insist. 960, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 961th, Ephimov. Don't insist. Amendment number 962, Martovitchki. Don't insist. Amendment number 963, Pavlov. Don't insist. Amendment number 964, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment number 967, Romanowski. Don't insist. Amendment 972, Romanowski. Don't insist. Amendment number 974, sub-league. Don't insist. 976th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. Amendment 983, Bandurov. Don't insist. Amendment 984, Martovici. Don't insist. Amendment 985, Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment 987, Dublin. Don't insist. Amendment number 988, Pleischman. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I have a very big request for you, since time is up for lunch, there is little right left. I ask those who insist on them to raise their hand and count all the corrections, colleagues. Fish insists, right? And, colleagues, it's going to be okay, we've gone through most of the right. Then I ask you to turn on the microphone now, give it to Rybchin. If necessary, I'll give you more time. And if you have to, it's one way at a time. One by one. How many straight lines can you plot? How much? All right, let's go. Please turn on Rybchin's microphone. And I ask the committee representative to listen carefully to what Rybchin says. Please, Rybchin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u213	Thank you. I propose to follow the Rules as we should work, not at lunch, as many people wish. For me, the key line is the following: 997th, 1000th and 1003th, which we served together with other colleagues, and I want to sound them. The first, 997th, refers to objects of electricity that use wind energy. And we can offer them a break in electricity, set them off for an imbalance of more than 50 percent. If we accept this amendment, we can save the situation, it's really a key amendment. Yesterday, I was offered 25 percent on the committee, not 50 percent, but unfortunately, that proposal did not satisfy the honourable colleagues on the committee. So I'm asking you to support this amendment, which can really remove all of the contradictions about the development of renewable energy sources. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u214	One more number.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u215	997.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u216	Ninety-seven. She was a committee rejected. You're suggesting we support her. So, who is supporting the 997th People's Deputy Rybkin, who has been rejected by the committee, please vote. [[13:37:23]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u217	1,000 is the right thing to do. The 1000-a amendment, this is a similar right to the previous one, but it does apply to objects that use solar energy and we have a team of authors proposed not to set a balance for electricity output by more than 25 percent. We suggested that the committee might be reduced to 15, if our honourable colleagues insisted, but this was also not supported by the committee. If we vote on this amendment, we'll be able to remove the issue throughout the law on the development of the solar generation. My colleagues and I have already cut this tariff considerably. And they made a delligarchized "sun" tariff and I think we can support, support the solar generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u218	Thank you. So who is supporting the 1,000th National MP Rybkin, who has been rejected by the Committee, please vote. Please. [[13:38:33]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u219	1003 amendments that apply to imbalances for small micro, mini and small hydropower plants by 10 percent. But I'm asking the honourable reporter to say that we've accepted the same 10 percent allowance on the committee of a colleague of Chizmar, if I'm not mistaken. Is that right or wrong? Should it be put to the vote or not? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u220	Please, Mr. Lev.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u221	We do. What's this, a readjustment number again?
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u222	1003.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u223	If. Yeah, it's the past on the committee that supported Chizmar's edit, and according to the mini-, micro-GES is also introducing a 10-percent uncertainty range. So this is supported, so there's no sense of calculation yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u224	Don't you insist? I'm really going to ask you about organization of work, we don't have much time, for the most basic, please, if you don't mind. Turn on the microphone, please, Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u225	I have great respect for my fellow national deputies who voted. I thank you so much for this amendment. I've got two last 30 revisions left. So I'm just going to say two revisions. These are the latest revisions: 1126 revisions. And I want to say about the whole bill. I saw the working group working. I saw, there were really professionals. Unfortunately, sometimes lobbyist solutions in support of the fossil generation, the atomic generation -- they beat the green generation that doesn't have such powerful lobbyists, and there's only 1 percent. In my opinion, this bill is, you know, a Mercedes like this drawing of Mercedes that's going to be produced at the Kharkiv Tractor Factory. We've already passed the gas market bill. We don't have a gas market, we have a price rise. We passed a bill on an independent regulator. There's no independent regulator, there's a subscription, there's a Rotterdam Plus. I've got plenty. 30 seconds. I have such a belief that with the adoption of this law we may have an increase in electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u226	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u227	We're going to have an increase in electricity, we're going to have lots that can manually control this generation, and we're going to sell, we're going to give permits for cheap atomic generation, and we're going to have hydropower for our production. This is a situation that was in the early '90s. I have a very serious belief that we need to finalize this bill and first resolve the situation in the gas market, settle the situation with the regulator, and only then go and regulate the market that works more or less in some way. So I ask you to support this law for a second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u228	Do you insist on voting for an amendment? No, you don't. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that the discussion is over. And I'd like you to invite all the deputies into the hall. The heads of factions I ask to invite the deputies to the Hall, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council I ask to invite the deputies to the Hall. Your Honor, I'm asking you now to review this bill to advise us on how to act, and which right-hand balance the law to which the right is to go back if that's what you're going to do. That is why I give the floor (three minutes) to the head of the Podlissec Lion Theophilovich subcommittee. And I'm asking you, Hall, to show us how to act. So three minutes is the show, and then we go to the vote. Please invite everyone into the hall. Yes, of course. Leo Teofilovich, say a big and professional word.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been distracted here. Well, we passed the whole table. Regrettably, there are many lines that made the bone of the whole. all the law was rejected. And actually it was done I don't know what the purpose is. Maybe someday the story will make sense, but I want to say that, first of all, a lot of things have been said that don't fit in with reality. This law is intended to introduce competition when all manufacturers compete with each other, and it is very important that this law is designed to ensure that consumers have a choice. Appropriately, after the adoption of the law and after the implementation of the new market model, every consumer can have a choice, and then there will be free competition between electricity sellers, so consumers can choose. We do. It's been said a lot that we're destroying the green generation. In fact, the green generation is not being destroyed because. I remind you that we have one of the biggest green tariffs in Europe (and maybe not only in Europe, but in the world), it is stored in the same state as it is today. We don't impose responsibility for imbalances on the entire active generation of green that has been, is today. In fact, it has often been said that the responsibility for imbalances rests with consumers. This is absolutely not the case, since article 70 in the first paragraph. It is clearly stated that consumers are not responsible for imbalances. As for greens, the introduction of this terrible sort of rule of responsibility for imbalances has only been introduced since it was 21 years old. And the delta that lets the delta make a mistake is installed for each manufacturer. And it will operate until the end of the "green" tariff, by the year 29. So I don't see any things that we should not have adopted the law. I have not seen, unfortunately, such a professional discussion here in the Hall about the inadequacy or wrongness of the law. Because that actually says that our working group managed to balance the bill so that it was optimal and effective and acceptable. So I would like to go back to those rights, parts of the rights that have been removed by way of confirmation, and re-vote them so that we can adopt a law that is in the interests of the Ukrainian population, of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u230	Leo Theophilovich, I ask you now to give a clear list of amendments that you think are balancing the law that we need to go back to. Please. Please list them, Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u231	We need to be able to confirm the 117th, 365th, 366th.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u232	Slow down, slow down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u233	117ths, 365ths, 366ths, 762ths, 763rds, 772ths, 773ths, 775ths, 826ths, 952ths. And it's also a 957, first paragraph. Since this is complex, it consists of two paragraphs. The second paragraph was, in fact, an observation; it was needed. Yeah, and 392th, which we haven't voted on yet, but there is, we've put the vote down.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u234	So, colleagues, I'm asking for your attention right now. I want everyone's attention. I want to inform you that the practice that we can go back to the amendments has been discussed in detail with our lawyers. This fits both the spirit and the letter of the law. Thus, when we discuss a huge bill and one amendment contradicts another, the committee head has the right to suggest that the hall return and the hall will make a decision. Because otherwise we can get a balanced bill, like this, for example, with a bill on service in local self-government. Similarly, I would like to remind you that in the previous draft of the medical bill, we went back to two licenses for your proposal. We went back and changed them. And then there were no objections. This is the normal and proper standard when such great laws are being passed. So, colleagues, I'm going to put proposals on the return. Which hall will support, that's what we'll confirm. And I ask all my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please come to the hall and prepare for the decision. So the representative of the committee, Leo Theophilovich, is asking us to go back to the first 117th, and the committee, on behalf of the committee, is asking us to go back and confirm it. I ask everyone to take up jobs and maximize their mobility, and to support a committee that has carried out a very, very long work, a system and a very good job. So, please vote. Whoever supports the return to the 117th, please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We'll support the committee. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:48:59]] For-195 They couldn't go back. Next, 365 revisions. The committee requested a return to 365 revisions. Please mobilize. And please support the committee. Colleagues, I ask you to vote for your return to the 365th. Please vote. Please support 365 revisions. Please. [[13:49:38]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The next 366 revision. I'm asking you to support your return to 366. Please support the committee, please vote. Please vote. [[13:50:04]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Next 392. Who supports the return to the 392, please vote. Please be supportive. 392 amendments, please support the committee, please vote. Vote. We're voting for a return to 392 revisions. Please be supportive. [[13:50:33]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Next 762. Anyone who supports the return to number 762, please vote, please support the return to number 762. Please vote, please support. [[13:51:01]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The next 772 right. Anyone who supports the return to the 772, please vote, please support 772. [[13:51:24]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Who's going back to the 775, please vote, please support. 775 revisions, please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[13:51:55]] For-173 The decision is not taken. Next eight-six-six. Who's in favor of returning to 826th, please vote, please support. 826. [[13:52:19.]] For 168 The decision is not taken. And the last one is 956. Who's going back to the 956, please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:52:46]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Thus, colleagues, the committee's proposals for balancing the bill did not receive the necessary support in the hall. I think in this situation we need to go to read again, but I ask Lev Theophilovich to say his position. Please, Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u235	I think in that case, the only option for that bill is to send it back to the committee for a second reading. And I also suggest that we adopt a faster, shorter procedure for preparing for second reading so that we can work out and get back to the voting room next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u236	Colleagues, please take up jobs now, we're moving on to making decisions. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Invite the people's deputies into the hall. Colleagues, colleagues, attention. Now I'm going to tell you the general position. There's a committee proposal, there's a second proposal. I can give you one minute at a time, but I'm afraid the MPs will be separated from the hall. So, colleagues, I'm afraid we're just going to lose in the MPs' room. I'm making a proposal, first the committee's proposal -- in general. If it doesn't work, I'm betting on re-reading. Is it accepted? Roger that. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. Colleagues. So, are you ready to make a decision? I put forward the first proposal proposed by the committee, the draft Law on the Electricity Market (number 4493) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, second reading, and in general. Vote. [[13:55:27]] For 211 Colleagues, the next proposal is to re-read the second reading to the committee for a second reading. I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm asking you to support me. Colleagues, we've done a lot of work. The committee did a huge job. Large working groups. We've been working for more than two hours today, and I'm asking you to support this proposal for second reading again on the committee, and we're going to work quickly and put it back on the agenda. I'm asking you to mobilize. Another read, do you support? Colleagues, please support. And I'm proposing a draft Ukrainian Electricity Market Act (number 4493) for re-reading. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Let's not break the law. Please support everyone. We're voting for a second reading to the committee. Please support and please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Can we adjust to the second reading again? Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:56:54]] For 265 Decision taken. I want a committee of fruitful work. It's a short-term procedure. Is that what it is? Colleagues. Colleagues, we're not gonna make it, it's ridiculous until next week we won't make it. Colleagues, there are three applications for recess in the lobby. We have time, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, and I'm going to give it the way they came into the hall. First. From two factions: the opposition block of the faction and the will of the people of Moskalenko. Who will act? Wilcule. The next one will be. Please. Step out of the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u237	Official statement from the Opposition Block faction. Dear people of Ukraine! The government struck the country with another devastating blow, published a memorandum that was secretly signed by the Cabinet with the IMF. Ukraine was sold for only $1 billion in credit. Yes, our country needs money, but we must have the courage to give up credit on degrading terms. What does the government want to do? The Ukrainian authorities have undertaken to adopt the Land Market Act by the end of May and by the end of the year to abolish the moratorium on the sale of land. By the end of April, laws on pension reform should be adopted. They're hiding from us what manipulations are expected of Ukrainians with a rise in retirement age and retirement. That goal was understood, more late retirement of Ukrainians and a reduction in pensions as such. The government may want the Ukrainians to die right in the workplace. This shameful reform must come into force next January. Third. The government continues to reduce the number of recipients of subsidies, with tariffs continuing to rise, and by January about half a million families will be left without the help of the state. In parallel, the government reduces the consumption of heat, gas, and electricity. So people are going to pay a lot more. The plan is to increase unemployment, especially by reducing the number of budget workers. By the end of 2017, there will be a reduction of 4% of the budget and another 10% by the end of the 19th. The government has undertaken to throw tens of thousands of people into the street, with millions of unemployed people there. I don't want to count it all, but we're asking the President, the Kabmin and the NBA to cancel and review the terms of the IMF memorandum. We need national pragmatism, not the destruction of state and people. We've put forward a draft order to the Council to abolish this disgraceful memorandum from the IMF. We need to develop our own economy and industry, not sell Ukraine for loans and make people beggars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u238	And a request from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front." And I invite Irina Lucenko to the floor. Or Arthur Gerasimov? Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like once again to welcome the Ukrainian people, I would like to welcome the Ukrainian Parliament and all those who have joined in this, that 521 MEPs today voted in favour of Ukraine's efforts on the way to Europe. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that Ukraine has fulfilled all the commitments made, and the hard work of the President of Ukraine, factions and coalitions, of the entire Parliament, of every Ukrainian citizen has not been overlooked. So once again I welcome you, but I want to say we can't stop, so we have to continue the path of reform that we've come to.
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you of where this all started. More than 3.5 years ago, in November 2013, when Azarov made a decision with Yanukovic that we were going to the Customs Union, all Ukrainians rebelled against it. It's been three and a half years of severe trials, reforms that we've adopted here in this session hall, which were initiated and by the government of Yatsenuk, the government of Groissman, the President of Ukraine, in order to finally take a decisive civilisational step, to return to the European family. I'm sure we shouldn't slow down, we have to do everything we can to make sure that the dream for millions of Ukrainians was made for Ukraine to finally become a full member of the European Union. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2017-04-06-m0.u241	Heroim Slava! Colleagues, I'll read two more messages. First. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Promoting the Protection of Rights and Social Rehabilitation of ATO Participants" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of this union was the national deputy Bilozoz Oksana Volodymyrna, the deputy to Rick’s Tetian Borisovna. Let's welcome our colleagues. And in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the Right to Defence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, George Bogdanović, was elected head of this association. And, colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And I invite those who wish to take the photograph on this important and significant day for Ukraine, which is equally important for all citizens and for all our colleagues in Parliament. Thank you. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
