ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and extremely, for Saturday, so beyond the day set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need to consider the draft law on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. You have been presented with records of the Fourth and Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year, and the records of the 7th and Eightth Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 18, 19, 22 and 23 May 2017. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – no one with abstentions – has voted 17. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. I am voting on the fifth session of the First regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year, held on 26 and 29 May 2017. I conclude the vote: for – 151 versus – no one, with abstentions – has voted 16. I agree that the Assembly adopted the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year, held on 26 and 29 May 2017. I put to the vote the minutes of the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 31 May 2017. I conclude the vote: for – 154, against – no one with abstention – has voted 16. I agree that the Assembly adopted the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 31 May 2017. I am voting on the 8th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 15 June 2017. I conclude the vote: for – 155, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 17. I agree that the Assembly adopted the 8th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 15 June 2017. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 152 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. The following Dn e v n i r e d 1 is specified. The draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, which was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. We're going to work on the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. Does the promoter, National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, want a word? Here you go. The word is proposed by Aleksandar Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me begin by congratulating all Serbian citizens the fact that, at least on one day, yesterday, indeed in the true sense of that word, Serbia has become the center of the world. We were able to bring to Belgrade both west and east, and north and south, to bring the largest... (Radoslav Milojic: What about the law? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17270	Please don't shout or throw, show some courtesy and let the MP say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17271	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. So we managed to bring to Belgrade the largest and most significant of the world statesmen, to practically unite both the West and the East, to unite the entire region, were present leaders from all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and yesterday it proved, by who knows which time, that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic is Serbia, that the citizens of Serbia are indeed in the right sense of these words, the pillar of stability, and the political and economic and security, in the Western Balkans. That is why I want to thank all of Serbia's citizens for this because their votes in the April 2 elections enabled Serbia, among other things, to become what today is a modern, regulated country, a country that is respected by everyone in the world, a country that leads a sovereign and independent policy and which is therefore appreciated both in Moscow, and in Washington, and Brussels, and in Beijing. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry, the formal proposal of this law is me, essentially behind this bill, the MPs elected to the National Assembly from the electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, 129 of them, and of course behind this bill are our political friends and political allies who will vote, not only for this bill, but also for the new Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Mrs. Ana Brnabic, who is scheduled to be elected next week. In short, I will present a few basics regarding the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. Two are the most important. A new ministry, the Ministry of Environment Protection, has been formed, which so far has not been formally established, but existed as one portfolio, or as one sector within the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. I don't think a lot of words should be spent on how important environmental protection is and how important it is that the Republic of Serbia is fully involved in this very important area. Environmental protection is one of those issues on which there is less, more consensus between states, one of the issues among which there is consensus and at the level of the international community. The environment today is protected, both by national legislation and by numerous international conventions, and most of these conventions have just been ratified by the Republic of Serbia, and we have thus made our contribution as a country of environmental protection. We have contributed to the fight against climate change, we have made our contribution to all those natural disturbances caused by man different activities and actions, and above all in industry, and unfortunately the disturbances in nature directly, or indirectly cause many negative consequences when it comes to people's lives and health. As a result, the SNS felt that there was also reason to form a special ministry for environmental protection and that Serbia is working even more actively on a plan to protect the environment. As important as that is, it also says that climate change is unfortunately reflected in the Republic of Serbia, which has negative consequences on our agriculture, but has negative consequences for human health as well. There is another reason why we felt that the environment should be singled out to a special ministry, because the Ministry of Agriculture is already in itself sufficiently active in the area of agriculture, so that environmental protection by nature is one area that should be excluded from the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, given the numerous activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, the numerous calling results that the Ministry of Agriculture has achieved over the past few years. Let me bring out just a few basic indicators that say that we have achieved significant results in this ministry and that every future agriculture minister will have enough to deal with only agriculture, and that therefore the environment should be singled out into a special portfolio, i.e. selecting a special minister to deal with the environment. We found a very difficult situation in agriculture. Many agricultural combinations are sold at very cheap prices, mostly to foreigners after 2000, 2001, 2002 and beyond. Over 100,000 workers in the processing sector in the area of agriculture have lost their jobs. Unfortunately, foreigners have become owners of large agricultural complexes in the Republic of Serbia, and our once very successful agricultural enterprises are either destroyed, or sold to tycoons from abroad, or to individual domestic tycoons for small money. What has the Government done to which Alexander Vukic is headed in the area of agriculture? The Agrarian budget for 2017 is almost 44 billion dinars, an increase of 8.11% and more than three billion dinars compared to 2016. The agricultural investment support budget increased more than four times, from 520 million dinars in 2016 to 2.2 billion dinars in 2017. So far, a total of 1900 requirements have arrived at the Ministry of Agriculture for the procurement of tractors, i.e. new machinery. This measure for the procurement of tractors for fruit, vineyard and vegetable production with a possible return of 50 to 65% in regions with difficult working conditions up to a maximum of 1.8 million dinars. For the first time in Serbia's history, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have achieved in the past few years. Let me bring out just a few basic indicators that say that we have achieved significant results in this ministry and that every future agriculture minister will have enough to deal with only agriculture, and that therefore the environment should be singled out into a special portfolio, i.e. selecting a special minister to deal with the environment. We found a very difficult situation in agriculture. Many agricultural combinations are sold at very cheap prices, mostly to foreigners after 2000, 2001, 2002 and beyond. Over 100,000 workers in the processing sector in the area of agriculture have lost their jobs. Unfortunately, foreigners have become owners of large agricultural complexes in the Republic of Serbia, and our once very successful agricultural enterprises are either destroyed, or sold to tycoons from abroad, or to individual domestic tycoons for small money. What has the Government done to which Alexander Vukic is headed in the area of agriculture? The Agrarian budget for 2017 is almost 44 billion dinars, an increase of 8.11% and more than three billion dinars compared to 2016. The agricultural investment support budget increased more than four times, from 520 million dinars in 2016 to 2.2 billion dinars in 2017. So far, a total of 1900 requirements have arrived at the Ministry of Agriculture for the procurement of tractors, i.e. new machinery. This measure for the procurement of tractors for fruit, vineyard and vegetable production with a possible return of 50 to 65% in regions with difficult working conditions up to a maximum of 1.8 million dinars. For the first time in Serbia's history, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have provided incentives for young farmers up to 40 years at a maximum of 1.2 million dinars and 75% of that is beyond investment value. Grants have been provided from 50 to 65% of the total investment in areas with difficult working conditions for the development of processing facilities, the purchase of equipment and machinery. As regards capital investments in the area of agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture has indeed achieved impressive results. The construction of 14 irrigation systems is under way, of which 11 are on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, three systems in central Serbia. These irrigation systems will reduce the risk of droughts and increase the productivity of agricultural production, irrigation of new 25,000 hectares for the vegetable, fruit and rata industries. The total value of these projects is 32 million dollars. The deadline for completion of the works is at the end of 2018. What is also an extremely significant result in the areas of the Ministry of Agriculture and says that environmental protection should be singled out into a special portfolio, in a special ministry, is something that no agriculture ministry has so far gone hand in hand, which is that Serbia can export its products, primarily meat processing to a huge, almost inexhaustible market in the People's Republic of China. The first product that the Chinese State has placed on the list of objects approved for export is lamb meat, soon it will be approved for three other meat-slaughtering and processing facilities, and by the end of the year a licence for export of pig meat, dairy products and dried plums is expected. `The register of new export facilities contributed to a steady increase in export values of 2.9 billion euros, and in 2016 a surplus of nearly 1.6 billion euros, and increased by 600m euros compared to 2014. A total of 112 EU and Russian Federation CEFTA facilities have been approved since 2014, i.e. European Economic Union for the processing of milk and meat, fish, snails, skin, pet food, etc. What it also says in favour of the good work of the Ministry of Agriculture is the recovery of the consequences of the flood. In the period from 2014 to 2016, numerous emergency interventions and emergency rehabilitation works worth nearly four billion dinars were carried out at more than 310 localities across the Republic of Serbia. Emergency work to remove the flood waves in March 2016 and form a system for the protection of the Lucans from large waters, Bjelice and tributaries, as well as works to protect Raška from the large waters of the Raška River. 380m dinars from the budget reserve were provided and the work will be completed by the end of this year. Technical documentation has been prepared and the possibility of significant funding from international sources has been achieved, and the Serbian Government has provided the possibility of effective execution of these capital works, which have the status of emergency works under the Planning and Construction Act. This refers to the following areas: reconstruction of the defence lines in the Valjev, Paracino, Svilinca, Krupanj, Ub, Smederjevske Palanke, Petrovec, Aleksinc, Obrenovac, Čačka, Lucan, Novi Pazar and Raška areas. These places, i.e. these cities and municipalities, have been given the priority of funding from funds provided through 33m euros in international financial arrangements. It is a very favourable World Bank loan and EU pre-accession funds, and the planned deadline for the completion of these works is the end of 2019. We hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will continue with successful results and we think that the future agriculture minister will have much work to do to continue working on the promotion of Serbian agriculture, above all to enable the placement of Serbian agricultural products on major EU world markets, the Russian Federation, China and other countries that are partners of the Republic of Serbia. As for the second amendment, we have proposed that the European Integration Ministry be formed. So far, European integration affairs have been in charge, on the one hand, of ministers without Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic's portfolio and the European Integration Office. We are now proposing to form a special ministry for European integration, given the fact that the Republic of Serbia has really gone far with European integration. European integration, or Serbia's entry into the EU, is the EU's strategic, political and economic objective, and we believe that this calls for a special ministry for European integration. Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic, as minister, who has so far been in charge of European integration in co-operation with the European Integration Office, has achieved huge successes on this plan. I just want to point out some. So far, 10 negotiating chapters with the EU have been opened, two negotiating chapters closed. On 14 December 2015, a second intergovernmental conference was held in Brussels between Serbia and the EU and two of the 35 negotiating chapters were opened: Chapter 32 on financial supervision and Chapter 35 on normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations. On 18 July 2016, the Third Intergovernmental Conference between Serbia and the EU was held in Brussels and a decision was reached on the opening of two chapters: Chapter 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights and Chapter 24 - Justice of Freedom and Security. On 13 December 2016, a decision on the opening of negotiating chapters 5 and 25 was taken at the Fourth Intergovernmental Conference in Brussels. The conference presents Serbia's negotiating positions for Chapter 5 - Public procurement and Chapter 25 - Science and Research. On 27 February 2017, at the Fifth Intergovernmental Conference in Brussels, a decision on the opening of negotiating chapters 20 and 26. The conference presents Serbia's negotiating positions for Chapter 20 of Entrepreneurship and Industrial Policy and Chapter 26 of Education and Culture. A few days ago, on 20 June 2017, a decision was taken at the Sixth Intergovernmental Conference in Luxembourg to open negotiating chapters 7 and 29. The conference presents the negotiating positions of the Republic of Serbia for Chapter 7 – the intellectual property right and Chapter 29 – the customs union. Of these 10 negotiating chapters, which have been opened in a two-year period, the Republic of Serbia has managed to close two negotiating chapters very important for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. These are Chapter 25 – science and research and Chapter 26 – education and culture. Given the need to ensure a greater degree of coordination between all ministries in the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to Serbia's EU accession, when it comes to negotiations with the EU with all 35 chapters, we in the SNS believe that there is also a reason and basis for the creation of a special ministry of European integration and we are sincerely convinced and we hope that this ministry will continue its successful work as the European integration plan has so far been done by the Minister for European Integration, i.e. the minister with no portfolio in charge of European integration, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic. What I also want to say is that the adoption of a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act is practically a legal basis and a first step, legal and political, for the election of the new government of the Republic of Serbia to be headed by the new Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. The Serbian Progressive Party is convinced that the new government will continue to run the same policy the government of the Republic of Serbia led with Alexander Vukic. This means economic development policy, which means a policy to continue consolidation of our public finances, that means a policy of peace and stability in the region, that means a policy to continue the path towards Serbia's full membership in the EU, but at the same time a policy of comprehensive friendship, comprehensive and enhanced possible co-operation with our friends in the east, such as the Russian Federation, China, India and other countries that have proven themselves to be proven as verified friends, allies and partners of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that the adoption of this law, as well as the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, will allow the further development of the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social life in the area of the competent ministries, and we are convinced that the policy that has been conducted in Serbia since 2014 will continue, that we will allow GDP growth, that we will enable better lives of Serbian citizens, that we will allow the increase of salaries in the public sector, the increase of pensions, the development of agriculture, the development of sports, the continuation of our path to the EU, that we will deepen our relations with Russian and Chinese friends, that we will continue the good and successful projects on the road and construction plan. My colleagues will continue to present the most significant results from the work of current ministers and current ministries in the government of Serbia, and I think it will be a good argument to convince other fellow MPs to support the proposal of the ministry law, and in the day of voting to perhaps support the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, whom I wish a lot of happiness and success in the work, which I wish with full heart, with much courage, with much power to deal with the problems she faced, but successfully solved by the government led by Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17272	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17273	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 107 and I'm advertising Article 108. We listened to the previous speaker, Mr. Martinovic, as he spoke about inauguration, about a shameful act for which the whole world laughs at us...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17274	MP, I'm not asking for your grade. I'm asking you to talk about the damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17275	I'm talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm talking about what the previous speaker broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17276	Don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You're giving your grade like you're the whole world. You are only Radoslav Milojic, MP. To be clear, there will be no such thing, I guarantee you. You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I ask the messengers not to yell at me. So, what did I hurt Article 107 in?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17277	You have injured Article 107, that the speaker speaking in the National Assembly is obliged to respect her dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17278	He respects Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17279	What the previous speaker didn't do. You have also injured Article 108 – that it is the order of the session of the old President of the National Assembly. As you now warn me, and as every time you take away my word and punish me financially, you were obliged to do so to the previous speaker, who spoke about inauguration of the president for the 17th time in this month. That's not the subject of today's agenda. But if you let him talk about it, let me finish, too. I have two minutes to explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17280	No, you don't have your two minutes, but you need to speak strictly about hurting the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17281	I know it's your fault that only two presidents of the state came to Serbia yesterday and I know you're sad about it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17282	Member of the Parliament, because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure under Article 103, Section 8, I am taking away your MP's group two minutes from the total time. You can yell at me, I'm used to it. In the absence of arguments, I'm used to shouting and insulting, but it's a shame that you insult the Republic of Serbia with your words. (Radoslav Milojic: Shame! If you'll excuse me. (Radoslav Milojic: No, come down to the place, and discuss with me. () Do you think this is a performance of a man, that is, you and the President of Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, should not be answered? I'm the one who responded to you by Article 103, Section 8, that's my opinion on what you're doing. It's quite clear. Ambassador, I'll let you go further into your doom, if that's your strongest argument, but let me answer you. You're doing everything I predicted you'd do. Come on, be unpredictable once. So I'll answer you for saying that Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic didn't talk about the subject. You've been having a pleasant chat with Ambassador Ciric all along, and you haven't paid any attention to what he's saying. I've been looking at you all along, believe me, because you've been holding that Rules of Procedure like you were ready to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure the day before yesterday. You've been talking to Ambassador Kiric all along, and I can tell you exactly who he talked to for 21 minutes and a few seconds. So, you didn't listen at all, you were prepared yesterday to talk about an event that you weren't at all at. Necessa Sarovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17283	Thank you. You're very kind. I'm telling you, he's a injured member of 106. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I quote item 1: "The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted." We are currently conducting a search on this one item of the agenda and this point is called – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. With this law, you practically edit the work of the future government, increase the number of ministries by two. Mr. Martinovic, who, contrary to all democratic traditions, proposed and explained the law, immediately began to discuss things that had absolutely nothing to do with this. So he was talking about inauguration, which is not an inauguration at all, because in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17284	Ambassador, I didn't ask for your grade, just Article 106, if he hadn't talked about the agenda point. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I explain, it is my business obligation. You can't give a grade. (Inemnja Sarovic: It is my obligation under the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to explain how the Rules of Procedure got hurt. () Since I hurt the Rules of Procedure, it says in the Rules of Procedure, it means that the President has injured the Rules of Procedure. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I'm just explaining his behavior that you had to sanction. I have to quote and describe how the Rules of Procedure was injured. Let me explain in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm not stopping you at all. (Inenja Sarovic: Turn on my microphone. Well, I didn't turn it off, he's a nervous messenger, so he's pounding on the sounder. Nemanja Sarovic: I hold this in my hand. I'm extremely focused. When you focus, I'll give you two minutes again. You have your word again. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17285	Thank you. I'm advocating the violation of Article 100, the Honorable Chairman, and I ask you not to really humiliate this House's dignity with words that are not unique, which no president of the Assembly has used before you, and that you do not judge what kind of MP he is asking for a word here. Member of the 100th says that when the president of the National Assembly holds the chair of the National Assembly's session, if he wants to participate in the search and participate in the debate and discussion with the MPs, what you are doing with me and with a colleague of the previous speaker, he must take his place in the benches of the MPs, not from the chairman's seat. You've violated Article 100. I ask you, indeed, not to give any more descriptive evaluations of any MP, characteristic, no more meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17286	Your Honor, when I wish to participate in the search, and the search has not begun, except as the promoter...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17287	In the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17288	All right, just yell, go ahead. I hope you get tired by afternoon. So, in Rule 103, if you would like and be kind enough to read it, the Rules of Procedure say that I am obliged to answer you. You don't care what I have to answer, it's your problem, but I have to answer the whole of the tide, not the individual, because you're asking the tide to vote for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in the discussion and debate, I'm going to be involved when it comes to that at all, and you don't want to discuss the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Are we going to vote for Article 100's injury? Ambassador, after texting, would you be so kind as to answer me? (Radoslav Milojic: I said – yes! I thank you. Just a little attention, so I can work, since I'm here to work. Here you go, there's a word for Nemanja Sarovic again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17289	Mrs Gojkovic, you have injured a member of the 103rd century 4, 5th and 6. I'll quote them. He says – the MP is obliged to specify which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement is, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. The next attitude says - if the injury is not considered to have been done, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, which you have not done, and if he considers that the injury has been done, he is obliged to remove the injury. The next position says, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP thinks that the injury has been committed, he may demand, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be declared in the day of the vote. So you have broken this article several times, or you have broken three attitudes, first of all, by not allowing me to explain within the two minutes provided the way in which the Rules of Procedure had previously been injured. I was able to quote the Rules of Procedure and nothing else. Then you interrupted me and turned off my microphone. Next, you had to give an explanation, you didn't give it. Third thing, you had to ask me if I was satisfied with the explanation and give me the opportunity to plead whether I wanted the Parliament in the day to vote on this member's injury. And you didn't do it, and it's undeniable. Therefore, here I am asking you, Mrs Gojkovic, that at least this violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is obvious, everyone has heard, we have a direct transmission, that even if you accept it. It's no big deal that a man sometimes admits to being wrong. You won't tell anyone your head is flying – well, I was maybe less focused at the moment, I accept, mistake, let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17290	Thank you, MP. I'd answer if you'd said anything about hurting the Rules of Procedure in the first place. You didn't say anything last time, so I don't know what to say to you, no matter what my focus on having today's session. So I answer nothing with nothing, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17291	I've quoted you all the members.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17292	I can't hear this part now. Do you want to vote on Article 103? Since all the members and special provisions, therefore, of section 3, 4 and 5, I have tried to answer and to fulfill the extent to which you have carried out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Tell me, do you want us to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(3), 4th and 5?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17293	Yeah, and this and that last one that I...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17294	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17295	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SVM Group - Party for Democratic Action, I will talk about amendments and additions to the Ministry Act and I will stick to the strict agenda. So, the government itself and our expectations of the future government will be discussed next week by the head of the parliamentary group, and in the follow-up of the debate, our distinguished colleague Fatmir Hasani will present his vision. So, as we have heard, as is known to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act, the amendments themselves refer to the work of the Ministry of Economy, Justice and Foreign Affairs, and to the addition of what is most significant actually refers to the proposal to form two new special ministries - the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Environment Protection. Our parliamentary group sees this proposal as a policy of continuity and respect for political views, which has been from the intergovernmental conference on EU accession since January 2014... We certainly welcome this proposal to form two new ministries, because we see this as a clear political message and evidence that the priority of the new future Government of the Republic of Serbia will be intensive work on the approximation, accession, accession of Serbia to the EU, as well as others, more importantly, from the point of view of the citizens themselves of the Republic of Serbia, the commitment to improving the quality of life of citizens. So why is education important for two new special ministries - the European Integration and Environmental Protection Ministry? We have a few arguments to support this. First of all, we believe that this will make it more efficient to organise the process of harmonising our domestic legislation with the European heritage of so-called. ‘Aki’, on the one hand. On the other hand, because business, not only in certain areas such as environmental protection, climate change, etc. More effectively organise, we already believe that this will improve and improve horizontal and vertical communication, as well as the interinstitutional coordination of certain institutions, both at central and local level. We believe that the formation of two new special ministries is necessary and means strengthening the decentralisation process, because as we all know and as we are aware there are no efficient European integrations, there are no good European integration policies, and there is no protection of the environment without including as many active and responsible entities as possible at both central and local level. We believe that the basis of public policies is local policies. Education of these two new special ministries will contribute to strengthening administrative capacity, because we believe that a well-organised and educated administration at national and local level, an imperative for good implementation of public policies and, finally, there is no rule of law and the rule of law without a quality, efficient and educated public administration. In addition to these arguments, the SVM parliamentary group -- the Party for Democratic Action -- believes that the education of the special ministry for European integration is a guarantee for the continuation of the new government's policy. This is a continuity in strengthening, improving, protecting, promoting the rights of members of national minorities. We see this in particular through the implementation of the priorities, programmes and activities set out in negotiating Chapter 23 and in particular in the realization of all the areas listed in so-called "the" section. the minority action plan, means, in a specific action plan relating to the protection of the rights of members of national minorities. Education of the Special Ministry for European Integration will help to meet the criteria faster, we hope to join, join the EU, but also what is for all of us, who support European integration, significantly promote topics, more effective promotion of topics that must become an integral part of the full legal framework, which are efficiency, relevance, equal opportunities, social inclusion, anti-discrimination, and gender equality and, of course, environmental sustainability, sustainable development. All the time following the continuity of policies, the importance of the education of the second ministry, the environment ministry, we appreciate through the views identified in the opening statement by the Republic of Serbia at an intergovernmental conference on EU accession from January 2014 where environmental protection is recognised as one of the most demanding and complex areas, both as regards the harmonisation of the rules of our legislation with EU legislation and on investment and technical solutions, and all regarding the achievement of European standards in this area. Given the complexity, the complexity of this area, in particular, the legal heritage of the EU contains more than 200 important, means 200 important documents covering horizontal legislation that has been regulated, as we know, through negotiating Chapter 27 - environmental protection and climate change. It is clear to all of us that, before the future Ministry of Environment Protection, there are extremely important and difficult tasks, seriously, but I would remind you now and the previous steps that we all must work together to raise awareness of the importance of the environment and climate change, to integrate all these topics into all other sectors, in fact, in all areas of life as much as possible. I would also remind that the European Commission's report on Serbia's EU accession progress, last published in November 2016, estimated that Serbia has achieved a certain level of harmonisation in this area, means, if we are talking about environmental protection, that, in particular, the National Climate Change Council has been established, that since the beginning of this year, since the first January 2017, the Green Fund established as a budgetary fund has been operational. There's a lot more to be done. In the next period, for example, a climate change strategy should be developed that will be in line with the EU's 2030 framework for climate and energy policy and well integrated into all relevant sectors. The major problem of Serbia, unfortunately, is, of course, the lack of adequate projects in this area that would allow EU funds to be used as efficiently as possible. According to the European Commission's estimates, Serbia has indeed transposed more than 98% of the EU's directive into domestic legislation, but their application in practice, the application of this regulation, means the implementation of the most difficult at local level, in local communities. . This is the situation, we can say and defeatingly, we are currently able, so, for the environment, only 0.9% of the gross social product is spent, and it is planned that investments in this area will reach three percent of the gross social product by 2021. To achieve these investments to protect the environment up to 3% of Serbia's gross social product, it is necessary by 2019 to translate the industry into sustainable production, build infrastructure, as well as to address waste and waste water to provide nearly 11 billion euros. As I pointed out, I did not intend to deal with the work of the government or the expectations of the future government in my presentation, this will be done by our parliamentary group, i.e. the head of the parliamentary group next week, and the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws we support, and in the day to vote, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17296	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17297	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a law on ministries, which provides for two new ministries, but I can't look back and not express one surprise and surprise that we usually draw up points that often have nothing to do with each other, and we're discussing what kind of naturally goes with each other. I think it was much more logical and better that we were conceding, but still within one debate we united the story of the ministries and that the story of the prime minister was immediately related. I know it's not formally okay, but basically we can't talk here about the Ministry Act, and we don't have in mind what's going on in society, and we don't have in mind what this bill is about to amend the law. So he is inaugurating a new government with a new prime minister, or new prime minister. In my opinion, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, neither is this mandater good, nor is this proposal for enlargement and the introduction of new ministries adequate. I would remind you that Serbian Progressive Party President Aleksandar Vukic promised a small and efficient government. As effective as it is, it will be judged by citizens, but that it is small - it is not. In any case, it's smaller than that number and the size that was promised. The first government of Mr. Vukic had 16 cabinets and two ministers without portfolios, with 18 members. The second had 16 resistors and three ministers without portfolios, with 19 members. The 18-resor government is now promised and, until the mandater is declared, we still don't know how many ministers without portfolios. In any case, it is the government that will be among the larger governments in our recent history, although it is, for justice, and I am sure that colleagues from the ruling majority will remind it, of course, of the larger governments, such as the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, I think Mirko Marjanovic and some others, but these two were just too big. Since our authority, or you, respected colleagues from the ruling majority, like to highlight world examples and role models, especially Germany, and when there is and when there is no reason to do so, I would remind us that the German government has only 15 ministers. So 15 ministers are one big Germany, and France is 19. In the U.S., it's a little bit different, a little more complex, but they have a lot less secretary of state, and with all these conditional terms, there are no more than 15 of them. After all, I would remind those a little older among us and among the viewers, that the famous and infamous SIV, the Federal Executive Council, whose premises yesterday held an inauguration that was important at the beginning of this debate, that this SIV mainly had one president, two vice presidents and only 12 secretaries who were somewhere in the minister's rank. Now we see, and those who enter these buildings know that this SIV, as well as the Serbian government building, bends from the number of people employed there, and it is hardly a more efficient state than the one that was complex, so a federal state or a Federation. I want to say that the government is too big, and it is certainly bigger than what was promised and announced when the SNS and Alexander Vukic, as an opposition politician, moved into his campaign at the top of the government. Of course, my colleagues will say, I have also seen in Mr Martinovic's proposal that this does not employ any additional financial resources, but my people, perhaps at this point, are not hiring any additional financial resources, we are building a new ministry, it will take over some of the personnel of the existing, existing offices or the existing agriculture ministry, but obviously, since large businesses from the domain of environmental protection are being envisaged, it is clear that it will have to increase administration and budgets sooner or later. So, inefficient, irrational and expensive, but more importantly, let's look at the explanation, I would draw attention and remind my colleagues that at this point we have the Office for European Integration and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. We had in two convocations, there was a colleague of Bogdanovic, now he came out, he was Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. So, in the term of office of the two governments of the Republic of Serbia, we had the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and that ministry was at one point brought down to the rank office. It has been said -- it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it's important jobs, it's an important fight for the preservation of Kosovo in Serbia. Then the Office for European Integration appeared, and for a time the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and the Office for European Integration were in the same status. The European Integration Office is now rising to the ranking of the ministry. So, when I or my colleagues or colleagues Slavisa Ristic say -- why there is no Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, then he responds from the ruling majority -- it doesn't matter, we have an office, it's important that the office works well, it doesn't matter what we call it. Well, when it doesn't matter, then why are you raising the Office for European Integration to the rank of the European Integration Ministry? What's wrong with working as an office? So this looks like a bit of a thing, but in this case, you can actually see what the government's priority is, or at least what it's trying to do, which is European integration. What is common, especially in the campaigns highlighted as important and as the heart of Serbia is Kosovo and Metohija, which slowly goes into the seal. I know these colleagues won't agree, but here, why, for example, when you're increasing the number of ministries, and I'm against it, but anyway, if you're increasing, why don't you return the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? If you're not going to do that, why are you raising your rank to the Ministry of European Integration? You say there's a lot of work to do. Of course, there is a lot of work on European integration, but I would remind the distinguished colleagues and the public of Serbia that unlike Kosovo and Metohija, where there is a consensus that is an integral part of Serbia, regardless of the consensus, there is a constitutional preamble where it stands and nobody in Serbia, except maybe one party and one colleague here or a couple of colleagues, doesn't think that it is and should be different, while unlike that, on the other hand, what is real now, what is possible and how this fight for Kosovo and Metohija is being conducted and whether it is being implemented in an adequate way, we don't think that it is being implemented in an adequate way, but anyway, if there is a consensus around Kosovo, I would remind you that there is no such consensus on European integration. Yes, he's not a dear colleague, he's not here in the assembly, and he's not in public. I'm very intolerant about that. I am a Eurosceptic, as well as most of my colleagues, but the simple real public of Serbia is divided on this issue. I would be happy to admit and admit that there was once a much bigger and clearer majority in terms of Serbia's European commitment. I was against it back then and now I'm against it, but there was a clear majority. The majority has been lost for several years, partly because of how our governments have conducted and how our governments are implementing these Euro-integrations, and partly because of what the EU itself looks like at the moment, given the problems it faces. In other words, the consensus was never absolute, but there was a clear majority. We have no longer had a clear majority in terms of the European definition of Serbian citizens, and we are running ahead of ore and we are building a ministry of European integration, which is said to be – well, a referendum, a decision, that is, when we are ahead of that process, before the reception itself. Well, when we get to the reception, what do we have to ask the citizens? If it makes sense to ask the citizens, you should ask them before, you should ask them now. It's a matter of referendum now. What is important and what needs to be kept in mind, so at this point, there is still a small number of citizens who support Serbia's entry into the European Union, but there is a very large number of citizens who oppose it. Then why are we introducing the Ministry? Why are we introducing a ministry on one subject that is controversial and about which there is no consensus between us here, there is no, in my opinion, among you in the ruling majority, but that is already your problem. You, too, are not quite convinced, at least not entirely, that entering the European Union is indeed an overwhelmingly basic national and state objective. But I'm saying, that's your problem. What is clear is that he is not in society, and why will the Ministry of European Integration? On the contrary, I repeat and stress, the Ministry of KIM that is abolished, i.e. which has been abolished, and which does not rise to the rank of the ministry, but remains as the Office. I must admit, I would not be surprised, such a proposal would be expected, let's say, that the mandater or legislator of the new government of counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic, I disagree with him, as he does with me, but in some ways it is a proposal that can come from him or his like-minded, because for them, the issue of Kosovo is sort of resolved that they think it's settled, he will correct me safely or deny me, or he will agree, he considers that Kosovo is independent, because there is not much we can do. On the contrary, he believes that all priority and accent should be put in the way of European integration. So LDP can do it, Cedomir Jovanovic can do it, but you can't go out with a proposal like this. Sometimes I feel sorry for my fellow Martinovic when I see what proposals he has to come up with. The last time was that law on unfortunate judges, where the best thing he did at one point was to give up on defending him and let the thing go the way it went, because he was simply defenseless, to propose to you, to amend the Law on Judges, or to the Presidents of Judges. So this time, I believe that on some sincere, secret, internal statement, a good part of my colleagues and the ruling majority would support my proposal. Of course he won't support it like this. But, here, ask yourself, even in yourself, if you don't want to be here in public, why if we're already increasing the number of ministries, why don't you also introduce the KIM Ministry? The yellow government that we criticised together you and I had the KIM Ministry, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica had it, now it's gone. The KiM Committee is very rare, less rare than almost all the other committees in this assembly. That speaks of what national priorities are. One is ahead of the elections, one is when it comes to collecting patriotic votes, then it's important Kosovo, then it's about Putin and Russia, and when the elections go through, then it's about Mr Kurc, Angela Merkel and European integration. It's just not right and sooner or later the citizens will see it. To finish at least for this part, the opening part of the exhibition, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's make a fair referendum, I think that's in our common interest, break this story about Euro-integration, but a fair referendum, where the public will be familiar with the arguments both for both sides, so how most of the citizens decide and how we behave. I am the first, even though I am a Eurosceptic, I promise to work as well as my colleagues on implementing a policy that gets a clear majority. Let's not say - there were elections and the citizens said theirs. There's no need for that kind of statement. In the West and in this democratic Europe that has its faults and some of its advantages there are elections, I would say more democratically than we have, and yet there are referendums on some important issues. In other words, let us plead in the referendum, give people a chance to make their arguments, and then after that we introduce the ministries or introduce the ministries of Eurointegration and I will help you if it is really a course that most citizens define. At this point, as I said, there are no such majority, despite the fact that most of the public and public opinion, media and political elite are cheering in this one Europhilic direction. With that, before we introduce that ministry, let's hear what the citizens think. That's what we do then, what we do and what the Constitution says, which is a struggle to preserve KIM, and certainly not put them in the same rank, it's what some previous governments did, putting in the same rank, there was a story about parallelism – we fight for Kosovo and we fight for the European path. Me and someone else here in the O.R. said it might sound nice, but it's not real. You cannot, dear colleagues, fight for the preservation of Kosovo in Serbia and for Serbia's entry into the EU. It's just not real. That's what our distinguished guests and friends, the leaders of Europe's most important countries, told us a bunch of times. Say it loud and clear, support Cedomir Jovanovic's policy, if you think it's the right way, or someone like that. I'm sorry, Chedomir, he'll certainly react, although this isn't a roll call and it's nothing critical on his account. Either support it or if you do not support it, then you are clearly and loudly working on implementing a policy that then does not include the European Integration Ministry before citizens say what they think about these European integrations. In the end, I would just like to look back, if Madam President allows, I know that sometimes it's not easy for you, but I would simply draw your attention, if one speaker comes and starts his speech on inauguration and thinks she's great, first, it's not an inauguration, but it doesn't matter, about the ceremony at the Palace of Serbia, and she says she's great and fascinating, then you as Parliament president if you haven't interrupted it and if you haven't intervened, you can't let some other colleagues tell you what they think of that inauguration, and they think all the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17298	Thank you, too, but not in the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Not in the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure anyway. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the presentation of previous colleagues, there have been a lot of ignorance, of course, a lot of political ill will, and I could say political hatred. Let's start from the beginning. As for the party reception of the President of the Republic, since I see that it hurts a lot and that many people are bothered when it comes to it, as I see many people are bothered and said how many people have won the election. It turns out that Serbia is the only country in the world in which you can't say that whoever won almost 56% of the vote is a winner, and that whoever won 2%, 4% or 5% of the vote is actually a winner. Makron gets 32% of the vote in the presidential election in France, all French media say it's a historic victory. In Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic won almost 56% of the votes, immediately the huk – and what it is, it's nothing, we're unhappy with the election results, it's nothing, we expected 70%, etc. But that's their problem with the perception of political reality. Yesterday, Alexander Vukic succeeded in a ceremony to gather more than 5,000 people. That's more than all of you in the former regime have managed to gather people in the streets since you protested from there on April 2, 3rd to this day. So much for your political strength. So Alexander Vukic gathered for one evening 5,000 people, and what kind of people. Here one, otherwise seems very clever, the MP mocked the invitations yesterday at the reception ceremony. Ljudi, in Belgrade came Rogozin, Johannes Han, deputy secretary general of NATO, all the heads of state or government of the former Yugoslav republics, the vice president of the Svekine National Congress came, a U.S. delegation came, people from Africa came, delegations from Asia came, our friends from the Arab world came. Well, that's the success of all of us! Well, that's the success of Serbian citizens! I don't understand that someone who hates Alexander Vukic hates his own country. Well, those people came to Belgrade. So these people also showed respect for the President of the Republic, but also for the Republic of Serbia as a state. They showed respect for a small country that has a very clearly defined foreign policy, which means – we want to join the European Union, we want the best possible relations with the United States and we want the best possible relations with our friends in the East. It's a policy that everyone appreciates, both in Washington and Brussels and Moscow and in Beijing. It's a common success for all of us. I really don't understand the need to make fun of it. Here were the words, probably in the absence of better arguments, a terrible thing happened, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, so far we've had 16 ministries, and now we're going to have 18. It is a major disaster for the Republic of Serbia, in the opinion of some who were in power in the Republic of Serbia by 2012. For such, I have a very clear answer, and they're bothered by 18 ministries, and in fact, to be perfectly honest, these ministries already exist. So, environmental protection already exists, except within the Ministry of Agriculture, but that resistor, that sector, it exists. Someone's already been into it. Some people are already getting salaries for what they're doing to protect the environment. As far as European integration is concerned, the actual ministry exists, only that's not what it's called right now. Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, de facto, heads the ministry for European integration. We even do rationalization in this area. We join the European Integration Office, which is to join the European Integration Ministry, and now we will have one single, roof, ministry that will deal with negotiations with the EU and that within the Republic of Serbia will co-ordinate all affairs related to the preparation of action plans for opening and closing negotiating chapters with the EU. Apropo's number of ministers, i.e. the number of ministries, a fellow who spoke a little bit, seems to have a problem with political amnesia. The first government of Vojislav Kostunica, in which he once swore, God damn it, if we were to put our hand on the heart, had a lot of financial benefits from a variety of research, public opinion, etc.... (Dear Shormaz: I know that. Here, she knows Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17300	Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17301	So the first government of Vojislav Kostunica had 22 members of the government and 19 ministries. Watch out, at a time when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro existed. Serbia is now an independent state, a unitary state, not a Federation. It is an important thing that must be emphasized and known by every lawyer, who understands himself in constitutional law. The second government of Vojislav Kostunica was even more massive, made it DSS and DS. The ones who signed the famous SAA. Those who have signed that, since 1 September 2017, property, including agricultural land, can be bought by foreigners. The same ones who are leading the hunt against Alexander Vukic and against the SNS, as if we were responsible for it, and he also signed the vote in 2008. So, the second government of Vojislav Kostunica had 25 members of the government and 22 ministries. Now how is 18 bigger than 22? It's not clear to me at all. There were calls to the Federal Republic of Germany here. The previous speaker doesn't seem to know that the Federal Republic of Germany, the name itself tells her, a federally arranged state. There you have the division of jurisdiction between the Federation, or between the federal state and theirs, as they say, countries, provinces, or federal units. According to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany or, as the Germans say, the basic law of 1949, the assumption of jurisdiction is in favour of federal units, and only what is not directly placed in the jurisdiction of federal units, is the competent federal state, or the Federal Republic of Germany. Even so, the Germans have more ministries than the Republic of Serbia will have under this bill, which, I repeat, is a unitary and independent state. You don't seem to know the difference. As for this lamentation that has already become, as I say, at the border of political hypocrisy and Phariseeism of the worst kind. There are crocodile tears here over Kosovo and Metohija. Here are the great defenders of Kosovo and Metohija. Here, let me ask you frankly, you who are so great opponents of the European Union, and the defenders of Kosovo and Metohija, which is a legitimate political stance, how many of your children live in EU countries? How many of you have apartments in Paris, Rome, Berlin, London, Vienna? Whose children are studying at the most prestigious European and American universities, where is the tuition measured by tens of thousands of euros and dollars? Does one of you SNS colleagues have an apartment in Vienna, or an apartment in Berlin? (National Members of the SNS, all in voice: No. I know many of them, who have all these things, but when they come to the National Assembly, then they act like Pharisees and hypocrites, they say – God, who brings us to the European Union, what are we going to do there? How do we get there? To better protect your property rights, so that someone doesn't break into your apartments. It's no small thing, people, when you have a penthouse in Vienna. It's no small thing when you have a few apartments in Paris, Berlin, London, Rome, when you go shopping pumpkins in Rome, etc. That's what it costs. One of the reasons we're going to the European Union is that your property, that your economic, that your financial rights are better protected. Your property will have a better legal protection regime once the Republic of Serbia becomes a member of the European Union, but now that we are only on our way to the European Union. There is another very important reason why we form the Ministry of European Integration and why we believe Serbia is a place in the European Union, aware that the European Union is facing itself, with enormous internal problems, aware of the fact that individual countries, large states, in the European Union, according to the Republic of Serbia, sometimes run an unfair policy, a policy that hurts us, a policy that is not always in line with international law and international standards. Economic reasons are, above all, for those who simply drive Serbia, conditionally, towards the European Union. I'll get you some information. The total volume of trade between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union at the end of 2008 was slightly more than 13 billion euros, with imports more than twice as much as exports to the European Union, with imports covered by 44% exports. At the end of 2016, therefore, we are talking about the government run by Aleksandar Vucic, the total volume of trade with the European Union amounted to almost 20 billion euros, compared to your 13, with the coverage of exports of 81%, which means that the volume of trade has been significantly increased, with a continued increase in export rates than imports. What is a fact, what someone may like or not like, but simply that is a fact and we cannot escape from that fact, whether we love or not the European Union, or individual countries in the European Union, or some of their leaders, that is a fact that clearly says why Serbia, above all, needs to move towards the European Union in an economic sense. The European Union is Serbia's main foreign trade partner, as about 65% of the trade of the Republic of Serbia is being conducted, precisely, with the Member States of the European Union. So 65% of our trade refers to the European Union. When it comes to investment, the amount of investment in 2013 was 576m euros, 2014, we are talking about investments coming from the EU, 2014 1.1 billion euros, and in 2015, 1.53 billion euros, which is about 72.4% of total foreign direct investment. So the largest number of investments is 72% and more coming right from the EU countries, that's a fact. Do you want to tell all those people who work in companies, in companies that have invested in Serbia from the EU, let's tell their workers – you know, it's bad EU, go home, you won't get paid anymore, we'll close all your factories because they're German, French, Italian or some other. That's impossible. Serbia's economy would have a breakdown, the Serbian financial system would have a breakdown. It would be a death blow to the citizens of Serbia that we managed to hire compared to the period when you fired them. These are reasons why the SNS has defined itself as forming a European Integration Ministry, why we have decided that in this way, symbolically, in a way defined by the legal language, to show that we are defined for the EU. As for KIM, which has also been said, here is the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, who is ready to give and to advocate that every one of you who is fighting for the EU, but from here from Knez Michaelo from your luxury apartments in Stari Grad and Vračar to give monetary aid to the state, so move a little bit from Stari Grad and Vrača to Ranilug, to Strpce, Pristina, to Kosovo Mitrovica, and down there defend the interests of Serbs at KIM, step out of the circle of two, I know that it is comfortable in the circle of two. There are a lot of nice cafes, it's not as hot as it is, the air conditioning works well, but go down a little bit, and down to the site you defend the interests of Serbs at KIM as Marko Đurić does. Who supports who at KIM, that's what the final election results told you. Nine out of ten guaranteed seats in Kosovo's parliament, in parliament, the AP KiM received a Serb list that had direct support from the government of Aleksandr Vukic. So, the Serbian people at KIM know who cares about his interests, knows that they are the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, knows that it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and knows that it is the KIM Office which so successfully, so bravely, so heartily led by Marko Djuric, who has been to KIM a thousand times more than you, of all your KIM ministers, of all of you who have advocated to preserve KIM, who has visited every municipality, every village and every village in KIM where at least one Serb lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17302	Cedomir Jovanovic, replica. I'll give you my word, MP, when you bring tea out in the ceramic cup. This is not how we can talk, you are jeopardizing the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You don't eat or drink here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17303	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be brief to Mr Vukadinovic. Of course, you didn't insult me with your opinions, I just think there are enough people here who know how persistent I am, among other things, the measure of that tenacity is this fact that is ahead of us, which says that today there are more people in parliament who share my political confidence, if we talk about Kosovo and Europe, than it was ten years ago. My view of the idea of European Serbia and the commitment Serbia has towards Kosovo does not stem from my whim, but rather from the obligation that we as politicians are obliged to deal with politics, thinking about the price society will pay for this policy. The kiM ministry was supposed to be 30 years ago. In the ministry, people living in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs, Albanians were able to solve problems that could then be solved, and they are now far from the past. The fight for the Serb people in KIM is only led by the Europeanisation of Serbia, not by the consolidation of Serbia. That's what you, Mr. Vukadinovic, refuse to accept as a fact. Why don't we have a KIM ministry? I'm going to try to give you a vivid answer for the same reason that it's pointless for us to have a Ministry of Pre-Operation Territories. Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia's political life, remain exclusively the subject of manipulation and suffering that affects everyone in power, not knowing what they will do with it. The sooner we talk honestly about it, the easier it will be for the people who live there, and for their fate, we are very responsible. Of course, some problems could have been solved ten years ago if there had been more intelligence and hearing. Willing to respect some of our attitudes, today the life of this world would be different, our relations would be better. Don't expect me to today when Vukic speaks in 2017 what I said in 2007. Let's be the radical he was. Just because it'll give him a round of applause on the other side. It's irresponsible to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17304	Time. Thank you. The word is Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17305	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here, and I join the prayer group not to violate Article 108, and I ask the Honorable Chairman to take care of the regular assembly. I understand the coalition sympathies, but you have indeed allowed Mr Martinovic to break Article 106 and violate Article 109 of Article 7 and thus, on the basis of Article 106, spoke outside the subject which is on the agenda today and within Article 109, allowed himself to present facts and assessments concerning the private life of other persons. He is not invited to make forced migrations of MPs to neither Kosovo Mitrovica nor the capital of Europe, and is not considering which apartments and cities they live in. Besides, if we're talking about her being off topic, I'm asking you to put that on the side once and for all. The fact is, there were 5,000 officials at Mr. Alexander Vukic's meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17306	We all know that. You've now reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're doing everything you're criticizing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17307	I ask you to respect article 108 for everyone. I explain, respect article 108 to me, respect others as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17308	You're asking me to meet you in two minutes to say whatever comes to your mind within the Rules of Procedure. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17309	You don't let me explain that. So 5,000 people in black at the funeral of democracy were at the inauguration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17310	Dear MPs, you have called on Article 109 of Section 9 there is no such thing as a non-existent. I should have interrupted you right away. There's no such thing as attitude 7. You've got to distinguish attitudes and aliases. There's attitude one and a lot more aliases. I should have interrupted you right away. Thank you, Ambassador Zivkovic. So, I should have interrupted you right away because you don't know the basic thing about attitude, what's the bottom line. Yes, I am illiterate, and you are a giant of literacy and culture in this House. I accept that I am absolutely illiterate and unworthy to lead this House in comparison with you. I accept your every criticism. My deep apologies for that. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17311	Thank you. Dear President, dear fellow Members, today we have before us the fourth Ministry Act of the last five years. We have before us and the fifth government in five years. So, you keep a very good beat that we have a new government every year. During that time, a very large number of ministers changed. Over 30 completely new and different personalities and for those five years we had four ministers of economy, four ministers of agriculture, three finance ministers and, of course, that practice continues, policy-making practices, practices with ministers serving there only to do what the Supreme Leader expects them to do and then be thrown into the basket as expendable paper. So that policy continues today. Today, we need to remember all those ministers, because we have ahead of us the selection of new ministers who have marked these five years, which are somewhat poorly mentioned by those who put them there, with reasons that they are specialists in their fields, that they will produce very large results for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, such as Milan Bačević, Bratislav Petkovic, Ivan Mrkic, Nebojsa Rodic, Lazar Krstic, Dragan Glamočić, Tomislav Jovanovic, Srdjan Verbic and many others. So they were all ministers. Many have rotated in certain portfolios in the previous period, and I really don't know how someone can question today why Serbia lacks results. Well, it's just that in five years you haven't been able to build any system for the functioning of the state. In addition, the fact that the President of the Republic today announces in his address that the new Government of the Republic of Serbia will have two prime ministers. There's no law about it here, and I don't know who he's lying to right now. Whether she's lying to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic or lying to Mr. Ivica Dacic. If it's true that there will be two prime ministers, then I ask the question how is it possible that someone is willing to accept the mandate to be prime minister and be humiliated so much as to be told - you'll only deal with economic resources, and politics will be dealt with by someone else? This actually speaks of the fact that one key sentence should be inserted into this law, and that key sentence, and we, as a parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to it, is that the ministries and ministers of all the affairs of their work should be carried out in accordance with the consent of the President of the Republic. Then this law will make sense and you will be able to apply it adequately to the real situation in the Republic of Serbia, which is that one man makes all decisions and that all of you today in the executive power accept the role of playing in his folklore while he plays the music he wants you to play by. Today, in this law, we have yet another interesting thing in front of us, which is that we have two ministries more. If you remember, it wasn't that long ago, only a year ago and a few days ago, you were talking about how Alexander Vukic's government is the smallest with the smallest number of ministers due to rationality, because of your savings you've minimised the number of ministries. Today, a year after that, we have a completely different situation, introducing new ministries with reasons that we have to have new ministries in order to do jobs from these resolutions and areas better than it was today. I really don't know if what I'm reading in today's explanation or what we read a year ago is true, but it doesn't really work out with each other. On the other hand, if we talk about the financial aspect, we can say that there are obviously financial resources where the state spends more. If he can spend more on new ministries, then let's return what you took from the pensioners, let's return those salaries you took from the employees in the Republic of Serbia. Also, what's essential to the introduction of two new ministries isn't really any of what you wrote in the explanation. It is in fact the legalization of political trade, settlement and proof that the appetites of individual coalition partners have grown and that you will have to make some compromises now. This means that even support is no longer as much as it was, and you had it sovereign and you had a mandate to change everything that was bad in this Serbia, everything that the lawmaker is now talking about, that someone else has been working for the past five or 10 years. For five years, you've had a mandate to show what you know and can do. Of all that, we've seen five governments and we see elections every year, and obviously that choice will continue. So, in addition to having absolutely political compromise and trade in this law, and not efficiency or rationality, there was another interesting thing, that the resolutions were divided by feuds, that coalition partners would get each one of their own areas. You've divided Serbia into playing with it as it fits which coalition partner that makes up the government. So today it is out of the ministry's jurisdiction to do all that matters about public enterprises in the field of energy. So, the Energy Ministry will only be responsible for all the businesses in the area itself, probably so that every coalition partner knows what belongs to him, but when you already share Serbia and when you introduce new ministries I will ask you what is the biggest problem in Serbia, what about demographics, what about family in Serbia? That's not what you're talking about. I have listened to the reasoning of the legislator that agriculture is a very important area, why it is necessary to establish a new ministry for environmental protection, and I support it, but for five years you have had the opportunity to show this importance of agriculture in Serbia. This is what you wrote at the end of 2012 and in your White Paper and your programme, representing agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Serbia, that you will raise the agricultural budget by one percent each year with five then. So today we should have a minimum of ten, and we have under five percent today and today you're breaking the Budget Law and you're honoring some before you who did the same thing, who were bad, etc. So you came to power with a story that you would be better, that you would correct all that others have done to you. What did we get in practice? We have received that you are doing far worse than you are calling after five years of doing bad things for the Republic of Serbia. Today in the Republic of Serbia, we have a situation that negative natural growth is so great that every year Serbia loses 36 to 38 thousand people. In ten years, we've lost nearly 400,000 people, and that shouldn't surprise you, because that's not what you're interested in, that's not what you're doing. You don't deal with citizens' problems, you deal with big topics, manipulations, organizations of various performances. A game never enough in a country where nothing serious is done. That's your motto. I happened to be in a market yesterday. In front of me, a young guy bought three boxes of baby food and paid for it with checks. He paid the checks in Serbia? And you don't need to be surprised by this kind of natural growth. You shouldn't be surprised that mothers are first in 28, and men in 33 are opting for paternity. You shouldn't be surprised, because that's not what you do. It's a question of all the questions. There's no such thing in this law. You should not be surprised that tens of thousands of people leave Serbia each year. This is the result of your five-year policy and the five-year work of all ministries, ministers, governments, the adoption of various laws on ministries that are only a mere form of meeting the political ambitions of individuals who are today ruling. We lost over 50,000 people last year. The same case was in 2015. So that's Serbia's discharge. And why is it empty? Because you don't hear Serbian citizens and you're alienated from them. A few days ago, more precisely last week, a guy who is the best physicist in Serbia, who was invited to participate in the physicists' Olympics, from Tristenik, did not go to the physicists' Olympics because his parents did not have the means to pay for the plane ticket, because the Ministry of Education did not go to meet that young man, because local self-government did not go to the meeting. The boy stayed home. You know what his colleagues told him, so it doesn't matter. There's time for you to go for the next years. This guy, whom Serbia needs to cultivate and invest in, unfortunately, will probably, like most of his predecessors who have been talented, go to other countries and form a family there and help other countries develop with their knowledge. It's a problem you don't want to see, and this is the law you don't want to solve. For this reason, I am, personally, our SDS-NPS parliamentary group and we have proposed an amendment to the introduction of the Ministry of Family and Demography, because I believe that next to these others is one of the most important ministries to deal with. You're the one who started doing it. You gave the minister without a portfolio, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, to do so and you told her – you posted the results, and then you allocated 130,000,000 in the budget, and I will remind you that you gave 260,000,000 for the fountain in Slavija. So 130,000,000 for birth and 260,000,000 for music and light fountain in Slavija. So it speaks of commitment and it speaks of priorities as you define them today in the Republic of Serbia. Then you set Mr. Vukic for, that is, he is probably himself, for the President of the Council for Demography and Population Policy, and that is, of course, like everything else, just a dead letter on paper, because there is absolutely no activity on the matter that someone actually took it seriously during the previous period. Today, as part of what I'm saying, we also have a situation for Serbia to empty out, to die out. We of 4,709 settlements, as far as we have today, have 1,200 that disappear. So that's the problem you have to deal with. Serbia is not only Belgrade, with respect for all those who live there. Serbia is far beyond that and all Serbian citizens should deserve the same rights. There are no stories here about regional development or about helping underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia. It just came down to the mere form, like I've been saying so far. Also, what I have to mention once again is that in these five years you haven't done anything about those key problems that destroy Serbia's economy, I am primarily thinking about reforming public enterprises. Today we have the same picture that we had in 2012 when you came to power. You promised reformation of both the EPS and the "Serbiagas" and the ESM. Except for the affairs that have taken place in these five years, primarily thanks to the professional staff, such as the director of the EPS as the biggest public enterprise, which, of course, had the sole reference for the place that the owner of the roaster and paid electricity for that roaster, should not be surprised what is happening today in the Republic of Serbia in the public sector and what is happening in public enterprises. Today you proposed to be the prime minister, actually the President of the Republic, the person who came here to the Ministry of State and local self-government also on your proposal, who was supposed to reform the state administration and help local self-government. You know what we got out of that? I worked with her on some projects while we were in NAED. Today we have as a result of reduced funds by local self-government, we have our citizens waiting as they once did for visas, on the hockey pages sitting in police pages to get a passport, waiting for health books, not knowing how they can function with health books. In a year and a few days' work in his ministry, she has failed to count the workers in her ministry. We don't know how many employees are employed after the ban. And these are probably qualifications why you're giving her a chance to run the government now. No, the only and essential reason why it will be in the next period is that it will listen to the President-in-Office of the Republic, who, as we have seen so far, will manage all companies and all ministries and all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, and will manage God and the Government, by having two prime ministers, as we have seen. So, as far as this ministry law is concerned, it's absolutely unacceptable for me personally or for our parliamentary group, especially since it's the fourth in a row and these previous ones haven't convinced us otherwise. I'd ask the question, I don't know who, probably the prime minister, is he going to take over the exposés a year ago and a few days ago then, the Prime Minister Vukic here explained a few hours, and some colleagues have declared him scientific work and that it should be studied at colleges as exposés, who's going to conduct these exposés, whether it's going to take over or it's going to have its own exposés? But we'll see about that very soon in the next days when we choose the government. So the SDS-NPS parliamentary group will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17312	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17313	The Honorable Chairman, a roughly injured member of the 107th Parliament's dignity, because you cannot allow such lies and lies to be presented and to be deceived by the public. You know, Mrs. Brnabic isn't her family, like some of her own, and they hired a woman in local self-government, so they come here to tell us about how young people are leaving and how, I don't know, we're losing our talent. And neither did she destroy all of our factories and companies that were giants, but some of them who supported those they brought in as experts, from Djelic and beyond, and who ruined our economy, and Dinkic, of course. So you can't talk today about the fall in birth when we have official data today – Serbia has 2,000 and slightly more babies in 2017 compared to last year in this period. For the first time, we've made progress in the Natalie. Let's not talk about what they say - the young go away. And where could they have hired in their time? What factory did they open? Today we have 56,000 young people who are more employed in reproductive periods than in their period, because some factories came here and someone got a job. They should be ashamed. I'm asking you not to allow this kind of public deception anymore, because this is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17314	I believe neither the previous chairman nor I have broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Vladimir Djukanovic: No. ) The word has the People's MP Djordje Vukadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17315	Article 107(2) on the use of offensive expressions and facts and evaluations relating to the private life of other persons. But Business here is double-crossed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17316	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17317	Article 107(2) So, double-crossed Rules of Procedure. Meanwhile, there was a change in the chairman. In fact, the previous president of the assembly made the injury, for it did not allow a replica, although I was directly called.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17318	Well, you can't talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17319	Well, now I'm advertising. Please don't. So, here's the deal. Injury is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17320	You can't talk about it. You can only go to the exhibit...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17321	Well, now. So, here it is said, the data are mentioned with some vague illusions, with vague illusions allowed without the chairman's warning and there is a lack of clarity and confusion among members of the public, as it creates an impression that I or some of my colleagues have penthauses in Austria... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17322	You can't. All you can do is show a colleague of Miroslav Aleksic's. Let's move on. The word has been made by MP Milena Turk, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17323	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating a violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 109, where the MP put out offensive terms. It is an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, to tell lies and lies, because when it comes to the municipality of Trstenik, while my previous speaker was at the place of the president of the municipality, the cash compensation for the unemployed maternity care of 10,000 dinars was delayed... The opposition's MPs are insolent. I'm only talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because he said we don't work on demographics...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17324	Please let your colleague tell you what she's got.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17325	So the maternity care was three and six months late. Today she's up 50% and she's not late for a single day. It's a policy run by the SNS. As for the support of students representing Triestenik and the Republic of Serbia, we are extremely happy to support such students and absolutely untrue. Not long ago, my previous speaker was offered through the media and the embassy as a minister of agriculture in the past government, so perhaps we should expect similar offers and ads in the coming days until the government's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17326	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Col. Djordje Milicevic has a word, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17327	According to the Rules of Procedure, I didn't want the speaker to answer as chairman, but I went down to the MPs' benches. The president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic, is mentioned. The previous speaker spoke about everything, but very little about what is the subject of today's session, which is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. He was talking about personal solutions. Personal solutions for the SPS and the SPS Parliamentary Club are important, but they are not the subject of today's session. In the context of personal solutions, he spoke of two prime ministers. Of course, there are no two mandaters, there is one mandater and this is Mrs. Ana Brnabic, and we will talk about the exposé and personal solutions when we listen to the exposés and when we hear the proposal for the composition of the new cabinet. As far as the Socialist Party of Serbia is concerned, yes, we share responsibilities and values when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, express our readiness and determination to work together with the Serbian Progressive Party to realise what will be the objectives and principles of the future Government of the Republic of Serbia. Who will be the minister and who will perform what function, I have no intention at this time to guess. We will listen to the exposés of the future prime minister for the formation of the new government, but if it is again someone from the Socialist Party of Serbia, of course, as well as responsible, seriously and committed to doing the job, in the best interests of Serbia and our citizens. Leave you, Mr. Alexic, our relationship to us. Relations between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia are both strategic and long-term and confirmation of these relations are results, and the results, most importantly, see the citizens in the right way. It's the citizens who give the final judgment. You deal with relations within the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17328	Thank you, fellow Milicevic. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. ) He cannot reply, he answered what you said, and you do not have the right to reply when it comes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to that reasoning. So, Col. Milicevic just responded to what you defined in your speech. Don't abuse now, please. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. National MP Bosko Obradovic has a word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17329	Dear, respected, humiliated and offended citizens of Serbia are helping God to help everyone. I agree with the chairman that the private party of the new president on the cost of the people and the state should not be a topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17330	I won't let you talk like that. We're not talking about private parties here, and I'm asking you to talk about the subject, colleague. Thank you very much, in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17331	Thank you, Chairman. I was just beginning to talk about the subject, but after the first sentence you interrupted me, which clearly speaks of the intention that you are chairing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. I would like to congratulate the Serbian Progressive Party on holding a gay parade today in Belgrade, because this is an extremely important topic, in line with the new ministry law. We had one earlier, but since the Serbian Progressive Party is in power, we now have two gay parades and that is the progress on Serbia's path to European integration, and I really congratulate you on that. What's a much bigger problem than that, is that under your authority, unfortunately, respected citizens of Serbia, we don't have a state. For five years, the Serbian Progressive Party authorities, we have had four election cycles and we have the fourth Vucic government for five years of the Serbian Progressive Party's authority. The first was where the official Prime Minister was Ivica Dacic, while the head of the government was the first Vice-President Aleksandar Vukic, the second was only her from two years, from 2014 to 2016, the third this scandalous government of several months before Aleksandar Vucic fled from the post of Prime Minister and here we now get the fourth Vucic's government, headed by a false prime minister, mask, ikeban, Ana Brnabic. What's important here, which is why you're changing the Ministry Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17332	I'm just asking that we don't insult people, that we don't insult the prime ministers, anyone in this room and out of this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17333	Thank you, Chairman. It is very difficult to offend the prime minister if the mandater is two-headed, if the political part is run by Ivica Dacic and the economic part of Ana Brnabic, so there is no telling who the prime minister is and I could not offend anyone. When you define who the prime minister is in that government, whether he who runs the political part or the one who runs the economic part, then we can possibly talk and insult the prime minister. And if there is no Prime Minister, if the Prime Minister is still Alexander Vukic, then we can't insult him. So to get back on the subject, you interrupted me. The new Ministry Act is in fact the image and opportunity of the Serbian Progressive Party's authorities over the past five years and all the lies and false pre-election promises that we have seen. We all remember the story of a little government that once, as well as all his false promises, was showered by Alexander Vukic. Today, this little government has gone to the 18 ministries that you're proposing to us here. That's how all the false pre-election promises of Alexander Vukic came through. What is most devastating for us in the Serbian Dvora Movement here is the continuation of Serbia's disastrous path to the European Union at all costs. Dear citizens of Serbia, we have been going to the European Union for 17 years and cannot enter the European Union. For 17 years, we have sacrificed all our national, state and economic interests for a small concession from the Brussels Central Committee. There's not a single step, just new blackmails, just new pressures, just new humiliations from Brussels. Believe me, it is very tragic when on Serbia's path to the European Union, as something great convinces one Aleksandar Martinovic, who has built his entire political career to oppose the European Union. And then the question really arises – which one do you trust Alexander Martinovic? Was it the one who was against the European Union, or the one who now feverishly defends Serbia's path? Because if you are proposing to the European Integration Ministry, then that means that you want to put the entire government of the Republic of Serbia in the role of the European Union and the interest of the European Union in Serbia until the end. This will not be the Serbian government, this will be the colonial administration, the European Union government in Belgrade. And that is the essence of the introduction of the European Integration Ministry. As advanced as you are in the Serbian Progressive Party, it is best to say that it has taken you five years to realize that there is ecology as an important social area in Serbia. It took you five years of government to detach the Ministry of Environmental Protection into a special ministry. It took you five years to understand how threatened it was to protect the health of the people of Vrbbab because of the Great Bac Channel or the citizens of Panchev, Užica or Lazarec. And now you're proposing to us the Ministry of Environment, after five years of your authority, and not to admit at all that you've never been into environmental science at all, that you have no idea about environmental science, that the European Union has forced you to have a Ministry of Environmental Protection, because without it, you would never have introduced it yourself. You don't normally do anything in Serbia until you ask the boss in Brussels. And that is the essence of this introduction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which I welcome and should have introduced long ago, but, well, it takes the advances five years to understand the basics. On the other hand, we are absolutely against this scandalous European integration ministry as the Serbian Dveri Movement. In addition, through amendments to this law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, we have proposed a real ministerial cabinet, which is the Ministry of European Disintegration and Europe after the European Union's collapse, which is much more relevant today in Europe than your European Integration Ministry. What, of course, I have to find out here and that's my obligation, is that in the Serbian Progressive Party itself and among the SNS and SPS voters there are a large number of people who share this opinion with me, against Serbia's entry into the European Union. What is the reason why these people are voting for SNS and SPS at the moment, we can discuss this, but it is crucial that they share the view of the Dvora that they are against Serbia's entry into the European Union. That's what all public opinion research shows. When you ask Serbian citizens if they are against or against Serbia's entry into the EU, more than 40% of Serbian citizens are against Serbia's entry into the EU, more than 60% of Serbian citizens are against Serbia's entry into the EU if we are blackmailed by the recognition of an independent Kosovo, and we all know that we are best aware that we are being blackmailed by the recognition of an independent Kosovo to continue such disastrous and harmful accession negotiations towards the EU path. So it is more than clear that a large number of SNS and SPS voters agree much more with my discussion against Serbia's entry into the EU than with your idea of the European Integration Ministry. The second thing that is very important here is that we also point out that Serbian citizens hear what is not in your Ministry Act. Why is there no family ministry and population policy over and over again? Why are you fighting the white plague again in the last place in state priorities? Why don't you absolutely worry about over-indebted families who can't service their debts anymore and pay for utility services? Why do you allow private perpetrators and public executioners to throw families out of their homes when they are overindebted? How can a woman be left out of a job today when she's in a different state, not be able to get a job if she's planning a family, not be able to reconcile motherhood with a business career, that she can't be systematically at the state level organised one ministry that will support birth, young couples, families with multiple children, single mothers and fathers, etc.? You have again avoided bringing the most important ministry needed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Family and Population Policy. Besides, we'll tell you a lot more about it when our amendments come in order. It is my duty to present to the citizens of Serbia what else you forgot to provide for your Ministry Act. You forgot of course Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because there is no ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. You forgot all the Serbs living outside Serbia, because there is no Serbian ministry in the region and a distraction. Otherwise, every concern for Serbs outside Serbia has been lifted from the moment of arrival of the SNS authorities. The diaspora ministry and Serbs in the environment were abolished, reduced to office level. Then, the Serbian office in the region was abolished and dissipated, reduced to the level of administration at the foreign ministry. For three years, you can't choose the director of the Serbian Authority in the region and the dissipation, and that's the best picture of your relationship with our countrymen living outside Serbia's borders. Well, of course no one expected you to anticipate the ministry of Serbs in the region and dissipation. One third of our people live outside Serbia's borders. Who cares about Serbs outside Serbia? What part of the state administration does that do? Is that irrelevant to you? Yeah, it doesn't matter to you. All that matters to you is what the Central Committee of Brussels says, what the NATO Pact says, what the IMF and other foreign owners say. You are not interested in the interests of Serbs living in the former Yugoslav republics without human rights, without civil rights, without religious rights, without the right to property and with any other scandalous solutions that have been made against them by the authorities of the former Yugoslav republics. You're not interested in a multimillion-dollar Serbian diaspora that brings you billions of dollars to the state each year. Twice as much as all your foreign investors get together on an annual basis from the Serbian diaspora and here's how you return to the Serbian diaspora, you don't even have the Serbian Ministry of Environment and Dispersion. Of course, you don't have a religion ministry either, because if you were taking care of traditional religious communities, you wouldn't organize not one, but two gay parades a year in Belgrade, because it's actually a picture of your homosexual lobby ruling Serbia's lead with Alexander Vukic. What is crucial here is what I want in particular to draw public attention to, therefore, everything that is important for the state of Serbia, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in the region and dispersion, the ministry of religion, the disintegration in Europe that we have to follow in order to meet in the new European order after the EU's collapse and, of course, the Ministry of Family and the fight against the white plague, there is no such thing in your proposal for a law on ministries, but after five years you remembered that there is an ecosystem, which is the most talking about how advanced you are. You're an extremely backward party, not only because of the organization of a gay parade, but precisely because of this case where it took you five years to realize that we need the Ministry of Environmental Protection. You would not understand that, as you do most of these things, which you write here openly, it says – obligations to comply with EU documents and regulations. Everything you do, gentlemen of government, your entire policy, your system of values, everything you stand for and implement in Serbia, it's just an obligation to align with the interests of the EU, which brought you to power when, together with Milo Djukanovic and Stanko Sutotic Canet, it formed the SNS nine years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17334	Mr. Beard...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17335	My duty in the end, Your Honors Chairman, is to say the following...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17336	Mr. Beard, I'll allow you to proceed. It is your duty, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17337	On the one hand, if you let me answer, will you interrupt me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17338	I'll let you anyway, I won't interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17339	You'll take my time, I suppose?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17340	I'll make up for your time. There's no reason to be nervous. You said it a little while ago – it's my responsibility. It is your obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and to speak about what is the agenda of today's session, and that is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Ministry Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17341	Thank you, Chairman. I understand your commitment to the SNS to defend her and, of course, understand how much the SPS is willing to humiliate itself to be in the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is not disputed for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17342	No, what I have suggested to you is my obligation as chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as an institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17343	Thank you. I already thanked you, you don't have to tell me again, I understand. You're wasting my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17345	Thank you. So, everything that is of interest to the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people, it is not in the new Ministry Act, and everything in the interest of the EU and the West, you put it in the new Ministry Act. You're the Continuity of DOS, you're the highlight of DOS, you're the peak of the five-octobarian republic, you're the highlight of serving the interests of the West. Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia has never had a greater servant west than Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17346	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker says we'll have, says the two-headed prime minister, and I think he's headless. He doesn't have a single head, because only a headless man, a man with no elementary common sense, a man who doesn't listen to himself can say these words in that style of Planinc, Dolanc - say what you want for 20 minutes, and I haven't read the Ministry Act, all of NATO's Vucic pact is guilty, white plague, Dverry, Orthodoxy, Russia, etc. But let's start in a row, says the gentleman who spoke about the number of heads that the draft ministry law is bad because we're supposed to have two ministries more. So, compared to the existing 16, we're going to have 18, although, as I said, basically we have those ministries, it's only formally one within the Ministry of Agriculture, and the other is being run as a minister without portfolios and offices for European integration, but essentially these are the people who will continue to do their job. So, we're big villains and criminals because we want to predict two new ministries, and Mr. previous speaker, who says that's why we're villains, proposes the introduction of not two, but five new ministries. So it's two more than five again? The impact is on the budget when you form two new ministries that already exist, but isn't a budget impact when you form five new ministries? He was talking about amendments. Here, I have that amendment in my hand, predicting the Ministry of Family and Population Policy. As I recall, in 2016 on that stage in front of the old National Assembly building on King Milan Street, all the opposition leaders stood in line and swung the flag in rainbow colors. Correct me if I'm wrong. Mr. Bosko Obradovic has supported since the first day of this protest, as they say – protests against dictatorship, people who, otherwise nonsensic in the democratic world, are unhappy with the results of the presidential elections, because they minded that Aleksandar Vukic won almost 56% of the votes, and among those who protested were members of different gay associations, the gay flags, then it didn't bother him, then he supported them through Twitter, here in the National Assembly, etc. Then it predicts the Serbian Ministry in the region and the dissipation. I'll look around his ministry a little bit more later. The ministry of religion, the ministry of AP Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know how many votes he won in Kosovo and Metohija, it's likely to be measured in some dozens in absolute numbers and, says the ministry of European disintegration and Europe after the European Union, probably writes the European Union. It is known that the previous speaker has a problem with the Serbian language, both spoken and written, so that these mistakes are not surprising. Now I'm going to tell you something about how the previous speaker, otherwise the largest Serb on the globe, the greatest Orthodox, the biggest Russian, the man who is most concerned about Serbs in the region, and I'm at the reception ceremony yesterday along with my colleagues video by Milorad Pupovac and Milorad Dodik and Željko Cvianovic, I also saw Mladen Ivanic. Well, I guess that's some Serbs coming from the region, too, I guess they're representing someone. I also saw Serbs from Macedonia, and I saw Serbs from Montenegro, though, I didn't see the previous speaker, but now I'm going to say why I didn't see him. He who talks about Serbia, how we are humiliated by the European Union, how Aleksandar Vukic executes Brussels's orders, now I will tell you what that great Serb did three days ago. On 21 June 2017, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, as president of the Dveri parliamentary group, sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly that he would visit the National Assembly, please pay attention, it is very important, the next foreign citizens whose host will be the head of the Parliament group "Dveri" Mr. Bosko Obradović. The following persons are concerned: Volen Siderov, Republic of Bulgaria, Javor Note, Republic of Bulgaria, Pavel Shopov, Republic of Bulgaria, Stanil Stanislav, Republic of Bulgaria, Nikolai Dimitrov, Republic of Bulgaria. Otherwise, all these five people are MPs of the Bulgarian Ataka Party. It is a party, for those who do not know, perhaps Bosko Obradovic does not know, which openly advocates the cancellation of the 1919 contract, which was concluded in the French town of Neja, which defined the borders between the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and Bulgaria, and which requires that parts of Serbia and parts of today's Macedonia be attached to Bulgaria. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I'll read to you, it wasn't even hard to translate from Bulgarian to Serbian, it's two related Slovenian languages, maybe I failed in translation, don't mind me, but this is the essence. Don't be angry, fellow MPs, there's nothing left for them but hate. Ambassador Ataka Andrian Asenov, at a session of the Bulgarian Parliament on 27 November 2013, says this: "Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, today is a tragic day in Bulgaria's history on 27 November. On today 1919, it was signed a humiliating dictatorship, one tragic for Bulgaria -- a contract that unfortunately leaves nearly half of Bulgarians outside Bulgaria. This occasion, for this anniversary, there is a resolution that I want to read on behalf of the parliamentary group and the Ataka Party in general." These are the people who were a few days ago the guests of the esteemed, greatest Serb on the globe of the Earth. Andrian Asenov, this is all a quote from the Bulgarian parliament's stenographic notes. On the occasion of the 94th anniversary of the humiliating Bulgarian Najski Treaty, which is far from home, territory and to this day filled by Bulgarians, Ataka party declares, pay attention: "The territory inhabited by Bulgarians within the borders of today's states of Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should be handed over to Bulgaria." Otherwise, yesterday I saw him shake hands with the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukića Gjorge Ivanov. "Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia cannot be seen as co-excessors of the Serbian-Croatian-Slovenian state. Serbia was not recognised as the successor of Yugoslavia by the United Nations and the international community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in the United Nations is not even recognised under its constitutional name, Republic of Macedonia. That is why what has been assigned to the Nejska dictate to Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is nothing about western Bulgarian areas and the Strumica region in Macedonia, due to the disappearance of the country that existed. This means that the country kidnapped Bulgaria, based on this treaty, must be returned to its territory. The German dictatorship is not even legitimateized by the Bulgarian state, as envisioned by the Trnovo Constitution, with ratification of the National Assembly. Such ratification has never been carried out. “ Ataka party believes that the issue of Western border return must be resolved before Serbia joins the European Union. What Bosko Obradovic is saying is not an accident. He says this according to the dictatorship of Serbia's biggest enemies and Serbian people. So Ataka says -- Serbia should be conditioned by joining the European Union by what they say will bring the Bulgarian provinces back to Bulgaria. The entry of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia into the Union should be regulated after the return of the Strumica region within Bulgaria's borders. Here, Mr. Beard, that's the policy you stand for. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to be clear to you, all of you who come from Nis, from Vranj, from Leskovec, from Pomorav, from the good part of Kosovo and Metohija, all of you who may have been born in eastern Macedonia, know – Bosko Obradovic advocates that all these cities, all of these parts of Serbian territory, return to Bulgaria. That's what his Bulgarian friends said that he received from the National Assembly on 21 June. When he received a few months ago from a Croatian Parliament MP who was taking vences to Ustashas in Bleiburg, I really thought he was a man of ignorance. You don't have to know everything. Not everyone has to be equally informed and equally educated. So, when he received Mr. Pernar taking a picture in Bleiburg with a Ustasha cap, I really thought he was a man of ignorance. But when he received from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia members of the party who openly advocated changing the borders of Serbia and Bulgaria and attaching significant parts of eastern and southeastern Serbia to Bulgaria, then it definitely became clear to me that it was not about ignorance, that it was an evil intention towards the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people. Therefore, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, who pleases God, don't talk about Serbs in the region or Serbs in the distance anymore. Stay away from Serbs from Krajina, stay away from Serbs from Republika Srpska, stay away from the Serbs from Montenegro. You also want Serbs from Serbia to return to Bulgaria. How dare you? And then you come to the National Assembly and say, "We want the Serbian Ministry in the region." You will also want Nišlje, Leskovci, Vranjanci, to have them too be distracted, that this is your ministry and it deals with them, after returning them to Bulgaria, which lost the First World War and which was signed by the German Treaty in 1919, including the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, as a country that was on the side of the central forces. Shame on you, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17348	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You will be entitled to a replica, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17349	I thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 109. Rules of Procedure. Considering that you, as well as your predecessor, Mr Marinkovic, had warned the speaker Obradovic and that it obviously had no effect. Your warning, not a warning, but an indication that it must be returned to the agenda, has obviously caused quite the opposite reaction, which is the humiliation of this Assembly, the humiliation of the MPs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason, Mr. Milicevic, who you should have used, is to apply article 109, and to punish Mr. Obradovic with a warning, for the insults which were at the expense of many, both at the expense of the prime minister and at the expense of the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Dacic. None of these offensive words he said, which are certainly not listed in the stenogram, have caused any reaction, which had to be manifested here, which is your obligation to apply Article 109. Rules of Procedure. Besides, I have to point out that this picture Mr. Obradovic is constantly trying to give the citizens something that certainly the citizens won't accept. The citizens have already assessed it in the elections, and that's what's coming back to him always as a boomerang. But it's a picture of one of the MPs, not a picture of Parliament. Not a picture of us representing citizens, not a picture of what citizens need to recognize as those who represent their interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17350	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17351	Please apply the Rules of Procedure to any inappropriate reaction in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17352	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, two minutes are up. You, Mr. Jovanovic, know very well that Mr. Marinkovic, who chaired directly before me, and I, are reluctant to use a member and apply Article 109. I had the intention to listen to everything Mr Obradovic said, I could not, of course, predict and it is impossible to predict what the MPs would talk about. Then when I felt that this was in some way disrupting the dignity of the National Assembly, I drew his well-meaning attention, because it was my obligation to comply with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But of course, that's why you're here, as MPs, to point to what you've just pointed out. I don't think we've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I'm telling you again, we're reluctant to apply Article 109, and we don't have double arches, as you know, according to MPs of the position, or the MPs of the opposition. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17353	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 108 and 107. Namely, the Honorable Chairman, you are not here to beg someone to stick to the agenda theme, to be decent, to be raised, to the minimum acceptable extent, you are already obliged to take care of the order in the Assembly as the chairman of the National Assembly and to apply the measures at your disposal. Or choose, in future, please, and do what you should do, as chairman or allow it to do someone else instead of you, without being angry, because I think that the excessive tolerance you show can lead us further into what is the violation of article 107, which is that it is allowed here to hurt to this extent the dignity of the National Assembly, by insulting the prime minister, by insulting each of the MPs who sits on this side, because there is no, almost no, greater insult, at least for me, to be called a petoctobaric and a gardener of dosing ideology. It is something that is inadmissible and something that is unacceptable, and it is especially unacceptable when it is done by someone who kidnaps money from his council, who takes money on fraud from the church to finance the existence of his party, someone who is today insulting members of LGBT populations in the way he does, and forgets that he was very comfortable with it before a relatively short period of time when they were standing directly behind him to get into this congregation. I'm not sure if all the insults and nonsense we hear from a colleague who said all of this, he's coming up with himself or someone helping him, so that's the only thing I really have a dilemma about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17354	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The explanation is exactly the same as the explanation I gave my colleague Jovanovic for a while. I think you were also aware of the fact that I repeatedly suggested to Mr. Obradovic when I felt that, on several occasions, the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had been violated. I'm reluctant to apply sanctions, and I'm reluctant to apply Article 109, but I agree with you that at certain times it seems to be inescapable and necessary. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17355	Thank you, Chairman. I waited patiently for this breach of the Rules of Procedure, one of the previous speakers hurt, Bosko Obradović, Article 106, 107, and so on, em, which does not speak about the subject, i.e. that man is not enough to say something to be smart, but something smart and meaningful and to say in this Assembly, something that the citizens will hear and accept right. It is impossible for citizens to accept it, in every election, fewer and fewer votes. He says we take care of family and children, but the idea of taking care of family and children by driving all investors out of Serbia, by letting those who want to come from the west and invest in Serbia, we should tell them – march from Serbia? No, you're welcome to Serbia. Come to invest in Serbia, in Rum, in Nis, in Novi Sad, in Vladic's Han, in Kikind, in Cupri, in all those places where 56 factories in Serbia have been opened so far, three years ago. Let's do something for this Serbia, not come to the Assembly to repeat, each time, the same thing. We heard you were against NATO, but we also know who's funding you. We've heard you're against the EU, but we haven't heard what you're for. We also heard how you want to disperse Serbia. We heard it all, we also heard in the elections what the citizens of Serbia think. We heard you have 1% or 2% support in the constituency. Citizens chose politics in the elections, chose a clear policy of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, with 56% support and Serbia in the EU, and investments from both the West and the East, both from the south and the north. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17356	Mr Filipovic, as far as I could understand from your presentation and explanation of the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 106 and 107, you too advocate to apply Article 109 more frequently during the next period and the next session if the dignity of the National Assembly is violated in the way we could have heard earlier. My explanation is the exact same explanation I gave my colleagues to Komlenski and my colleagues, Jovanovic. My question to you is - do you want the National Assembly in the voting day to plead for the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17357	Thank you, Chairman. I point out the breach of Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure. I think it is clearly envisaged that the reminder be given to a MP who uses swearing and offensive expressions. Is there anything more offensive, Chairman, than calling your own state a colonial government, saying you don't have a state, and you're sitting in the parliament of this state, working in the institutions of this state, and you're getting paid for it? I think you had to use the powers given to you by article 109 and give notice to MP Bosko Obradovic. In fact, the part relating to the denial of Serbia and Serbian statehood, I think MP Martinovic has already said a lot about it, but I will only say that when it comes to the concern of Serbs in the region and that is one of the false and offensive things that the MP today said after the pay phone. In particular, I will point out for Serbia's citizens and for citizens living in Republika Srpska, Montenegro and the surrounding countries, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and has shown concern for our citizens living in Republika Srpska. I remind you that the government of Aleksandar Vukic paid for the reconstruction of the temple in Mostar, that during the construction of a bridge between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, 12,000 euros were paid a few days ago for Serbian school equipment in Mostar and many other things that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did for our citizens through Drina. As one confirmation of this, I will only say that approximately such election results at the polling post in Banja Luka at the consulate of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic received 69% of the votes, at the consulate in Herceg Novi 93%, at the polling post in Berani, I think that the votes of the movement leading the parliamentary measures...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17358	Thank you. My question to you is – do you want the National Assembly in the Day of Voting to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17359	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17360	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17361	Looks like the system went the wrong way. Member of the 108th session, please chair to begin your work, which is to seduce order, first of all, for your own sake. You've suffered, some MPs from your MP group, from another left group, I mean ideological left, MPs of this largest group, which we know is the group, you have to take care of, not everyone can push the button to tell you whatever they want, which has nothing to do with the agenda. That's what happens all day and when the president chaired, and when your colleague chaired and when you chaired. Is this a Saturday for some holiday, is this some free composition today or do we have a ministry law? If we have a ministry law, then take it nice and let it be talked about. Diaspora, Bridgers, I don't know what we're not, Bulgarians, Bulgarian parliament, quote. I know yesterday got a little bit more, at six o'clock across the street, but you had all night to sober up, now let's take it easy. Finally, you must prevent some MPs who say to themselves that only hunger are afraid, do not insult one important date and people who participated in an important big event, which is October 5th. Proud of the fact that there is a October 5th in Serbian history, proud of what I've been involved in. To inform you, read a little, DOS stopped existing in November 2003. I chaired the session when it was shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17362	Thank you. You've ordered a violation of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zivkovic, it is my duty as chairman to listen to every MP and to allow every MP to have a word with the Rules of Procedure, if anyone points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must and it is my obligation to enable him to explain the injury, to say why I do not consider that I have or committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure and to ask a specific question – whether he wants to make a statement about the injured done to the Rules of Procedure in the Voting Day. That's what I've been doing all along. Do you want to get the National Assembly in voting day? (Yes) I thank Mr. Zivkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17363	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'm advertising Article 27. You were obliged to remind a colleague of Obradovic at the moment at which he almost humiliated the people of the entire region of the Republic of Serbia. What am I talking about? Insisting on the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija can be a personal position, until the moment it offends the dignity of all of us who regard ourselves equally as the citizens of Serbia, as well as the distinguished colleague who lives in Chačka and who was born in Cačka. We cannot speak in this way in the Serbian Parliament, especially under the circumstances that we advocate a large Serbia defending KIM, while at the second moment we place a whole territory of the Republic of Serbia under the ministry, equate it with Serbs in the region and make such a precedent in relation to one not a small number of Serbian citizens, that it is unacceptable for one MP or anyone, and I fear for you who are chairing this session. Another thing, which is very important, which is to deal with politics is allowed from a congregation pay phone, and what is not allowed is to ignore the essence of dealing with form. If we criticise the government and the proposal for a new law on ministries in the sense that there had to be a family care ministry, as counterpart Obradovic said, I do not see the difference between the ministry without portfolios that are closely dealing with this issue and have results in the past year compared to some newly formed ministry that would in this regard be made. It's important to achieve an effect. The form has never solved a fundamental problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17364	Comrade Paunovic, it is impossible to follow what every MP is talking about, but that is why you are here to point out and have just done so. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to declare the injury displayed? No, I don't. Mr. Vesovicu, do you want to take down the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I point out the violation of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Just before you explained and discussed with Mr. Zivkovic, you showed absolutely that you knew this Rules of Procedure. I'm really surprised why you're not applying it. So, I am the seventh National MP to appear after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, of the seven Members of the People's People's People's Parliament, is the only colleague who spoke before me to draw attention to Article 27 and I to Article 103. Five previous MPs drew attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 107, 108 and 109, and Article 103 said the MP could not point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly that was already indicated. So, you've been doing a series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure by the same member of SNS, Mr. Neđa Jovanovic and Mr. Komlenski. So, it is evident that every one of Mr. Obradovic's speeches causes a whole series of replicas, which is allowed, I have no problem with it, but I'm surprised that you've allowed five colleagues to advertise the same member. So I'm not going to ask you to vote, I answer you in advance, because I know it doesn't make sense, but this is a rare moment when you really hurt the Rules of Procedure. Whether you've done it consciously or unconsciously, it will remain unclear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17366	Nothing will remain unknown to you, Mr. Vesovic. I apologize for letting go and allowing a democratic debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for allowing MPs to get their word when they point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. They referred to certain members, but to the different views of that member, and that is why I have made it possible and allowed them to report and indicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're done with a circle of violations of the Rules of Procedure. No one appears after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We now have the first replica of SNS representative Vladimir Orlic, and then you, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. She mentioned Dossov's political starlet Pernard Twornard systolic SNS on several occasions. Yes, that political starlet, you've recognized it well, which has a syntax problem, and unsurpassed Semantic difficulties. I was able to tell in that bunch of very strange things that she said about SNS, so it's time to hear a few things. The first thing, as far as the alleged disgust of that Dossian political starlet Pernard Durnard is concerned, we know it, we know it very well. We know how bad money isn't on the side of the money at all. First of all, I think of the money of a political patron, probably that starlet, a Dossian candidate, Vuk Jeremic. Then I think about the side of the money, the money that came from foreign donations and grenades, the yellow company, and through it again, that same starlet. Furthermore, I think of Soros, who is very nice, generously funded by certain organizations, which I know about, because that's what I live in, the organisation of Pernard Twonard's Dossian political starlet, is wonderfully cooperating with them, sharing with them those Soroshe coins, so how much more is disgusted by us than we know. Another thing, to discuss with this starlet on Europe and environmentalism, I can, but to begin with, let it master the syntax and say the word Europe and the word ecology without making a mistake. It's a prerequisite for any further discussion. The third thing, to speak at the level of Milovan Brkic's tabloids, is it entirely logical for me because she identified herself as the tabloid, the one she was with today? That starlet said in time that she's the same as today's? Then I agree, and I can say, it's logical. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all the natural consequence of an enormous amount of outpouring of the gentle embraces of Dossier candidate Jankovic. Whoever hugs him can't even care about Kim because he doesn't care about sovereignty. He cannot worry about the Republic of Serbia because he accuses of genocide and when he says God helps, he can get an answer just give him God's brains.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17368	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17369	Dear Mr. Chairman, do I have the right to two replicas or one after I have been mentioned by both Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Orlic? First of all, thank you for your opportunity and your right to a replica and for having the opportunity to remind the gentleman of certain unpleasant things. If, for example, a Nazi general were appointed in the country of Israel as a adviser to the Prime Minister, it would be about the same as when Tony Blair, who was the head of Serbia's bombing, was appointed as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. It's important that you carefully observe your words, because the worst of yourself is actually spit when you're trying to spit on someone else. Clearly, you've made a diaspora since KIM. There is already a vote under special rules that are different from the rules in the rest of Serbia, and this clearly shows that you have already declared KIM a diaspora. As far as the Bulgarian Ataka Party is concerned, of course the Serbian Dvora Movement is treating and developing our Balkan and Orthodox relations with them. Our idea is an alliance of Balkan Orthodox peoples, and you are bothered by every political organisation in the environment that is against joining the EU, which is against NATO, which recognises Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia, such as the "Atake" case, which is against the gay parade, which is for the southern course and which in every other way shares common political values with us. I understand that these aren't your values. Your values are the values of Tony Blair, Shredder and other NATO killers who bombed this country, which are your advisors, your friends, your comrades. So you have no right to honor anyone in that regard. You first of all have the only right to organise this SNS week of promotion of homosexualism that lasts until Vidovdan, when you plan to choose the first gay prime minister in...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17370	Ambassador, be careful what you say. What's this for?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17371	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17372	What kind of dictionary is that in the Serbian Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17373	SNS week of promotion of homosexuality?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17374	I'm not gonna let you say that, definitely. I really don't want to share sentences and be a police officer here, but I don't allow hate language in this House. You're cooperating with European countries, now you've boasted. Ask them something at those meetings. Don't just take pictures in front of the flag. Ambassador, it is my right to hold a session and interrupt an MP if I believe he speaks hate language here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17375	You have to explain what language hate is?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17376	I don't have to explain. I'm taking a break from a minute to get back to talk about the subject. We've been discussing his speech with MP Bosko Obradovic for an hour. Let it go to his burden. If that's how we conduct the debate in parliament, then we are completely wrong. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure or anything, let's talk about the essence of the bill of Members who proposed this law. [[after breaks]] The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17378	Thanks for the line. This is correct, to conclude, since we all know, we have heard well who caused this circle of replicas, and of course, I am thinking again of Pernar's Dovernar political starlet. What's left to hear that dossic political starlet? When he talks about KIM and talks about Serbs in KIM, there are obvious consequences of that gentle hug he had with Dossa candidate Sasa Jankovic. From him he took the manners and looks when it came to kim. This dossal candidate, without a shred of shame, has recently said -- sovereignty means nothing, sovereignty, a fictional word, a cast of dust in the eyes of the people, and in doing so, he meant KIM, he didn't hide it. After that hug, Pernar Pernar's Dossov political starlet seems to take the same look at the same problem, so he takes terrible care of KIM, which the people see and understand very well, and therefore the votes there can get, how much? Barely on the fingers of one hand, that if someone cheats, then accidentally circle. When it comes to the region and Republika Srpska, taking on these bountiful values, this Sasa Jankovic, on the Republika Srpska and Srebrenica issues, is nothing new, because the Pernar Dovernar political starlet and its values have been in possession of the heritage for some time now. Well, she was on the election list with those who talked about there being genocide, so she was on the election list with people who said that, watch this now, Franjo Tudjman was right, that he had a lot of right to integrate the Krajina Serbs. How do we know? By erasing them. And today, that same Dossian political starlet Pernar "The Dvornar", with whom? With those who claim that these Serbs, the Krajina Serbs themselves, have emigrated, have exiled themselves. To all of this, ladies and gentlemen, I can only add one more thing from a moment ago, so we can hear each other better, so let's remember – God gives him his brains.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17379	Time. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17380	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary groups will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. There's more reason. One reason is that the PS has been in the coalition with the SNS since day one, the headquarters of this government. Together, since 2010, as opposition parties, we have set out to fight for a fairer and fairer Serbia, for Serbia, which will enable its citizens to work and create freely, which will allow their citizens to live with a decent man's life. The adoption of this bill of amendments to the law and the election of a new government that awaits us in a few days is just another step forward in this fight. The proposed amendments and additions to the law envision the introduction of two new ministries -- the environment ministry and the European Integration Ministry. The proposed amendments and additions provide for the termination of the Office for European Integration, as well as certain changes in the work of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. The main reason for proposing these changes is that, based on experience from the work of the previous two governments, conditions are created to form as high-quality and efficient as possible new republican government that will continue to carry out a reform course that the then prime minister has outlined four years ago, and today's President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. It is this political continuity and continuation of a uncompromising fight for a fairer, fairer, politically stable and sovereign Serbia that the PS insists on. When we talk about the protection of the environment, the fellow MP said he decided for five years how and in what position he would be in, I would say that this story lasts for 20 years, and this particular congregation majority, unlike the previous ones, when environmental protection was both within the Ministry of Health and within the Ministry of Science and Technology, of spatial planning, decided that environmental protection would be granted to the status it deserves, to get its portfolio in the new government, above all because the relationship to the environment is important because of all of us, but it is the most important because of those who will come after us in this Serbia, who will be born and live in it. The Ministry of European Integration. I feel free to say that I do not belong to the EU group of fanatics, but I must have respected investments that the EU countries have made in this country. I must respect our country's foreign trade with the EU, which is our biggest market, but also the desire of a great deal of citizens to go through European integration, and if this is our way, and it is evident that, because of all the obligations we have towards this road, we believe that the ministry needs to be introduced. What is important is that in the previous four years our government has shown, and I hope that this will be the path of this new government that we will vote on in a few days, is that we will not give up co-operation with our real, with our historical friends, with countries like Russia, like China, like India, from countries that have always been on the side of Serbia and on the side of the Serbian people. Some colleagues here have mentioned some hockey, where rows are waiting for the certification of health books, obviously forgetting that at their time, at a time when robbery privatisation was carried out, when hundreds of thousands of citizens were out of work, there were ranks of former workers waiting to apply to the National Service, who were waiting to exercise any right to the rights they were deprived of during that shameful privatisation. They forget that at the time of their rule, workers and former workers slept on the track, strike, and rescue their firms that were sold for nothing, forget that in their time workers were tied to factory gates to try to save at least one power from such a government, at least one hall, at least one thing not to sell out into impasse in Serbia. It has been mentioned that villages and cities disappear, how the birth rate decreases, how people emigrate and flee to larger environments, and where will people from these small villages and cities work, where will people work when everything is sold from 2000 to 2011? Everything that's been created for decades, everything that's been done in Serbia for decades, everything sold out for nothing, everything sold out to make individuals rich in person and in private. A fellow MP also mentioned the struggle against the white plague, the attitude towards women, the same man who threatened this congregation, who humiliated and who physically attacked both his wife and mother, the same man who drove his godfather out of his party, the mother of three children. A lot of these empty stories, and I think the citizens of Serbia both in previous presidential elections and in last year's parliamentary elections have seen whose story, whose policy is correct and exactly in line with all this, have given their confidence that the SNS and the coalition gathered around it in the 2016 parliamentary elections, as well as our joint candidate, Aleksandr Vukic, in the last presidential elections. It is mentioned that in every session of the Assembly, which in every media event requires that local, sometimes parliamentary, but is constantly talking about the decline in the ratings of our President Alexander Vukic, as well as the entire coalition, but what hurts them today is a debacle that is experienced in every election in the last five years, a debacle that is experienced, because citizens no longer believe in their empty stories, because they no longer trust people like that correspondent of "New Sparks", the Ljotic list, which has spread anti-Semitism and fascism of the Librarian Man, who for the last few years most obviously enjoys enjoying the Latvian Library that he has just received from this "New Sparkle". I would like to point out once again that the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17381	The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17382	Thank you, Chairman. I point out the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27 and Article 109, Section 6 and more. So, MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17383	Which other one? You have to tell me. That's what I've heard for the first time in 27 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17384	I'll tell you exactly that you were supposed to today...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17385	A little bit of seriousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17386	Today you're supposed to make warnings...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17387	Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17388	... in accordance with Article 109. The warning shall be made to a people's messenger who uses swearing and offensive expressions. I understand that when Bosko Obradovic comes out here with arguments, the ruling party's MP can't answer the same question, he can't make counter arguments, he's forced to use offensive expressions, to label us all here as talking about hate and similar negative things. So, here you go, make counter arguments...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17389	You can't speak directly. You're talking to me, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17390	The Honorable Chairman, for the last hour, more precisely since MP Bosko Obradovic spoke, here everyone is speaking to him personally, including you, accusing him... (John Manojlovic: And you recognized him? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17391	Ambassador, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17392	... to speak hate without reason, but that's enough. This is all allowed because when Bosko Obradovic comes out with arguments that will not make this government work well because everything by order of Alexander Vukic, or his employers from abroad, when he puts it out, then you have no counter arguments, you already have insults, offensive expressions, even his replicas are denied. If you're such heroes...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17393	Thank you, MPs. We'll talk about heroism next time, as far as the Rules of Procedure's injuries are concerned. It's already come out of the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There was no need for anyone then preside over to warn. I was told that only a meeting was mentioned with a certain MP from the Croatian Parliament. So I don't see what's problematic. I assume the head of the parliamentary group stands... (Maria Janjušević throws.) Don't throw me away, please. Please be a lady. So I guess he's behind the meeting with the Croatian MP and I don't see what's controversial about it, and it's not even disputed that other MPs speak. (Maria Janjušević throws.) How did you say, how to whom and by whom? So the Rules of Procedure can't be hurt. In that case, I didn't give any notice to the MPs who replicated your chief of Parliament, nor to him for what he said before the session was interrupted. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17394	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to return to the agenda. We are talking about amendments and additions to the laws whose adoption is a prerequisite for the formation of a new government, but the sphere in which we are conducting this debate leaves no change in the possibility of anyone who has managed to remain normal in this country to believe that, after the formation of this government, anything will change in this country for the better in our mutual relations. Madam President, the debate cannot only be led to the establishment of a Ministry of Environment and Ministry of European Integration, although I have a lot to say about it. This debate brings us into the debate we expect during the coming week and about the government itself. What do we think we're saying to this country by our behavior when you, Mr. Orlic, call it a political starlet because he's your political insinuate? It's just as offensive to me as anything I've had the chance to hear as a form of criticism of Anna Brnabić's candidacy, and since it's sultania, it's a puppet, it's only because you want to go to the west, because it's understood that all the gays are in the west and that they're in the guys in Moscow. Is that how we should go into the government debate on Wednesday? There are people on the street who we shared with our stupidity and incompetence, to allow them to live the way they live in a world that's much more normal than ours. While we here in the Assembly are branding someone as the leader of a homosexual lobby, on the street someone sees it as a basis for violence, which is probably enough in this life. We can talk about Kosovo, we can talk about Europe, but we cannot escape the fact that we as a Parliament have no answer to the question - what does this people want? I came yesterday for your president's inauguration. I'm not his political equalist... (Ljiljana Malusic: Ours. Yours, together, our president, the president of your party still. That's my attitude towards this country. I think the Croatian president came because she wanted to say something, like many others. Just as it was going from here to Zagreb, Podgorica, Ljubljana, Skopje. I did it because it was my attempt, maximum, which I can give at this point to make this a normal country. Cut out the DOS torture, the starlets. Stop creating divisions into countries that are already too big. If we're talking about these two laws, we need the Ministry of Environmental Protection, necessary. For ten years, I've led this committee. As other party leaders pushed into the Security Committees, for the judiciary, the Administrative Committee, I led the Environment Protection Committee. Two hundred fifty black spots, environmental points exist in Serbia, and none are the consequences of global warming. They're all a direct measure of the misery we live in. This city is the last on the list of European capitals for water quality. The Belgrade sewerage, the New Sad sewerage, the Smederjev sewerage, is the real name for the Danube. Ten years will burn us, Vinch. I don't think he's burning because of Cynthia Little. I don't think it burns because Gilas was mayor before him. It's worse because for 30 years we haven't been able to agree on how we're going to organize life in this country in such a way that we can survive. The Ministry of European Integration, a very complicated solution. I'm not sure those who suggest him know how hard it is to do that job. Croatia had the European Integration Ministry, it was led by Mimica, and is now the commissioner of the European Commission. I've talked to him a lot about this in a time when, as Deputy Prime Minister, I've been doing some work on European integration. I think the model we had was more effective. Professional working groups in each ministry that carry out work in coordination with their minister within the framework of the assumed competences. I don't see, I suppose who will be the minister of European integration, it would be logical to make it Mrs Joksimovic, that she will have enough authority to at any moment be more effective than Stefanovic to run the business of European integration, that is, that reform within the framework of the MUP, than the minister of justice, than the health minister and all those other ministers who are already doing those jobs. I'm afraid it's one title without real power that will slow down, make it less effective work that is now being done. I wish I was wrong. If we introduce the European Integration Ministry, so are you aware that you advancers can't go to the Assembly in 2017 the day after you organized the reception that people from Bosnia, from the whole region, from Europe, I want it to be a picture of our country, I'm going to fight for the next election to win, so we can invite you, as you called us, but you can't stamp someone here because he said that Srebrenica was genocide. That's the International Court's verdict. We're changing the Constitution. We change the Constitution, and in the context of these changes we recognise, we give priority to international law. Why do we need that in this time? For the atmosphere in the country. The atmosphere in the country is always responsible for you and us. But the level of that responsibility is not the same. You must have the strength to wear undosed criticism, and insult, to withstand the trip. That's why you're in power. There are two ways to fight what you find inappropriate. One is to keep quiet, one to deny. I didn't make that up. It was Kish's answer to the question when he was being whirred for the "Encyclopaedia of the Dead", declaring him a forger. He said, "I've decided to keep my mouth shut." I don't know how many times Zoran Djindjic told me – man, tell them they're lying. I said I'd be crazy if you did that. That's why I'm with four kids gay, a junkie, a thief, a traitor, and 90% of the parliament in the meantime has accepted all the values that made me brand. It's a disaster to say that in Parliament. If Sasa Jankovic were here, I would tell him it's unacceptable for someone who's been the Guardian of Citizens for 10 years to talk about Ana Brnabic like that. I would also say to Tadic that what he said about her is a puppet. What man could the Wolf have suggested without his puppet, not getting that epithet? Is it hard to say that it's a young person who's 42 years old, who takes a lot of risks, who doesn't have the experience to do the job, it's obvious, but takes it and does it? Now, you will have our support if you have the strength to make a difference between Brussels and Moscow by giving a priority to Brussels, if you have the strength to fight for peace in this region by bringing us closer to NATO and pulling us out of that madness in the '90s, remembering those proud knots, and having the authentic power to overcome the divisions that exist between us. That's the LDP's position. Is it politics or should we look at who's holding hands, belittle ourselves like that? I'm not the same-minded Sande Raskovic Ivić. But she is a lady, a lady, with her political beliefs. You can't talk like that here and expect us to listen. That doesn't make sense. Absolutely. These changes that you have proposed cannot be put above the context of a policy that needs to be guided and must not be put in place. You said you'd overcome past break-ins. Well, get past them. It is not easier to overcome the break-in of relations with Croatia, with Kosovo, with Bosnia, but in our mutual relations? Wait, no one's gonna think we're normal. What do you think of the man who takes care of every other house except his own? It's a diagnosis, it's not politics. Let's get into that debate on Wednesday in a normal way. We've got these changes. These are two important changes. One is if you make a mistake, if you form a ministry that is unable to do the job. I'm telling you because I did it. Slovenians had Potočnik who was a negotiator and working groups in each ministry. The streamer coordinates ministers, ministers are responsible for the work group's work in their portfolios. That worked. Now, I don't know what that's gonna look like? The environment is important to the ministry. But we have him, and then he disappears, and then we bring him back, and then we sink him again. Let this decision of yours be precedentd in the sense that you will stand so far behind it that no one will dare again in Serbia that is burdened with so many environmental problems from the whim of someone in the government depends whether we have that ministry or not. That's what we need. We are, in that sense, a completely devastated country. Not because someone wants to. We didn't have any money. That's what it costs. When people came here to talk to us, every time it all ended up on money. There'll be clean air in Bora when we install the filters and pay for 300 million solvents. It'll be clean air in Obrenovac when we set up a moving system, which also costs money. Let's see what we can do and how we can work it out. I say, this is a precedent. The Serbian government will never be without the environment ministry again, and there will be a man who is credible and who knows how to do the job. And then that's a positive step. This European Integration Ministry is quite a risk and we are waiting here for the prime minister to explain to us what he has decided, what will the structure of this ministry look like? Are working groups being abolished by other ministries? If they're abolished, you should know that you've been cutting off the continuity that's been going on for years. If they don't stop, it's just one title. Because the task force at the interior ministry cannot manage the European integration ministry. It's got to be run by the Home Secretary. That's one of his priorities. In justice, too. Talk to your minister, Selakovic, he did it in time. It's a very complicated solution. I personally was not for him when it came to the possibility of forming a government in 2012 and whenever the LDP is mentioned, we are constantly bonding with the European Integration Ministry. I've always been against it, because I don't think it's functional and operational in a state like this. Simply, the minister is from another party and you already know what our relations are – our interests are dissipating and there is an immediate dispute and some conflict. So, with that you should go very carefully. What I'm finally saying is, the key question is the question of our ability to define what is what we want as a country. The interests of European Serbia and the struggle for the interest of our people in Kosovo are not at odds. It's a lie, it's a lie. The stronger the country, with as many friends, then the wider the space for understanding. We have someone to talk to now. Look what it's turned into, we don't know anything about Kosovo, nothing. We are now asked by the ambassadors -- is it possible that the Serb list is voting for Haradinaj? Before that, we have to answer one question – what does the Serb list in Kosovo want anyway? We did not allow authentic Serbian politics to develop there, but since we as Belgrade were expelled from Kosovo, then we went back down through the Serbian List and continued to run a pseudo-Belgrade policy. How did that end? By shooting ourselves in an election campaign. It's a disaster! It must never happen again. It's not just your fault, in 2004 Serbian lists were made, all Serbs on one list. What about politics? Well, this policy that was defeated in 1999, so we are now serving it from Belgrade under the table. We were cooperative, we gave a quorum when Thaci was elected president, and what did we get in return? Nothing. We received a message – we don't care about the Serb Community. We got a message - we'll make an army. We received a message - and without you, we can form a government. Let's wake up. We signed the Brussels Agreement, and here he got our support, and some of them criticized him. Let's sit down and talk, it's been four years, what does this Parliament think about it? I'm sorry, this country has dignity. At least I have it myself. If there's anything I support, I want to know if it exists or if it doesn't exist. He's not going to tell us that Haradinaj of Pristina has nothing to do with the Brussels Agreement, is he? We should say that if that's the case, and we should say, something we signed, it doesn't exist, the end of the story. Then we put something else on the table. When I spoke to Minister Dacic, he told me – you know what, what you're proposing now, they don't care anymore. I said -- come on, put our position on the table that we won't block you into integration into international organisations, because I guess it suits us that this is Kosovo as much as possible with the world. He says: "They are no longer interested in it. Well, of course, since they've already done it themselves. They have entered the Olympic Committee, UEFA, and they will enter UNESCO. We've waged lost wars. But if we had done it in 2008 and put it on the table, everything would have been different. All right, we can't give back lost time, but we can't repeat lost mistakes. There are a lot of issues we can argue about, but don't ever talk here again so we're ashamed when we get home. Don't do that, somebody's getting their head kicked in the street because they got an argument in the congregation. What does it mean that the party is the leader of a homosexual lobby? We are obliged to protect the constitutional rights of the people, whether we like it or not, and their right to protest here, not to grab their collars and be caught by a party security guard because it's being managed to make sure they're not photographed by a cop. Bring a cop in uniform and let him read the law and say - act in accordance with the law. We are also obliged to allow these people to do everything within the law that we have adopted. If we're not able to do that, we're not a state, this isn't a Parliament, and everything that follows us describes us as failed people, but people who are pests. There's plenty of room to talk to on Wednesday. I want this conversation to pass in a different atmosphere, but in advance, LDP will not allow people here to be demeaned in the way that it became a rule in our political life. Once again, that DOS you've been pulling out so much since 2003, so more DOS is with you than with me. Forget it, it's history. Look what you'll do tomorrow. Who are you going to solve the problem with in Bosnia tomorrow? Who are you going to talk to tomorrow about Kosovo? Who are you going to make difficult economic decisions with tomorrow? If Janet Jelen by one point raises interest rates in America, we'll get a public debt of ten billion. The government obliges, of course, our status of the opposition as well, but since you are the government, take that responsibility to the extent that we cannot do it, establish different rules of conduct between us and then we will have normal relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17395	Thank you. He's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, for having been at the reception ceremony for the election of Alexander Vukic as President of the Republic. As you said yourself, you have shown respect not only for him personally, but also for your country. I agree that, in the end, the President of the Republic said right after the entry into service that we in our society must open a dialogue on a number of issues – and on those issues that we agree on, and on those issues that we disagree on. One of those questions that you and I disagree on, but I don't think that's the reason for some kind of political civil war, is what happened in Srebrenica. You have the right to believe that genocide occurred, as we have the right to say that a crime occurred, but that genocide did not occur. That is why Cedomir Jovanovic should not hate me, as I believe he does not hate me, nor should I, because he thinks he was a genocide, hate Cedomir Jovanovic. As far as the European Integration Ministry is concerned, it will not be abolished, Mr Jovanovic, the special working groups that exist in the ministries, which deal with the production, application and implementation of action plans for Serbia's accession to the European Union. The essence of this ministry is to create a roof ministry that will co-ordinate all activities related to the opening and closure of all 35 negotiating chapters with the European Union with other restoring ministries. So, the essence is in coordination. We have had one solid coordination so far, but this coordination went through the cabinet of the minister without a portfolio that was in charge of European integration and through the Office for Accession of the European Union. We in the SNS believe that both in legal and political terms, a far better solution is that we have one ministry, the European Integration Ministry, which will deal with co-ordinating the work of all other ministries and their working groups, which concerns negotiations on those topics covered by these 35 chapters on Serbia's accession to the European Union. Will the European Integration Minister have enough political authority, as you say, to coordinate with ministers who run other ministries and who can be from another party rather than from the SNS? What I can say is that so far Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic has shown that she has absolute authority in running her cabinet, that she has made a huge contribution, along with Aleksandra Vukic, along with other people who were directly involved in the process so that ten negotiating chapters would be opened for two years, and in the meantime two open and closed. If Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic, as a prominent political figure, as someone in the SNS presidency and in the new government is in charge of European integration, do not doubt at all that she will have enough authority to coordinate with other ministries in those parts of their work concerning Serbia's accession to the European Union. What I want to point out, and I think I missed it, so maybe that's why you didn't understand me, SNS, unlike some others who were in power by 2012, never bid on dates and years when Serbia should join the European Union. We had this practice from 2000 to 2012. The first year to be mentioned as a possible year of entry into the European Union, and some are likely to have been in 2004. In 2004, Boris Tadic said we would join the European Union in 2007. In 2008, he said we would be safe in the European Union by 2012. Here, it is 2017, we are not a member of the European Union. That's why SNS doesn't do it. So we don't bid for years. Joining the European Union is, you know very well, a negotiating process. So in every negotiation process you have two sides, I'd even say you have three sides. You have the European Union as an international organisation and an institution, you have its organs, you have the Member States of the European Union that do not, you have to admit, the same attitude on all political and economic issues, some of which are very important to Serbia, here I am primarily referring to the question of Kosovo and Metohija. So, don't forget, five full-fledged EU member states have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, so there is no consensus within the European Union itself around Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, the third party in those negotiations is the Republic of Serbia. What can the Republic of Serbia do? It will primarily be part of the work of this ministry. It is up to us to do all the work that is necessary in order to become members of the European Union. Will we become members of the European Union, and what year will it be? I hope you agree with me that this depends not only on Serbia. This depends on the European Union, it depends on the mood and on the political opportunities in each Member State of the European Union. Finally, the practice of the former Socialist states that entered the European Union – both Poland and the Czech Republic and Hungary, and Slovakia, and Slovenia, and Romania, and Bulgaria and Croatia also shows this. They entered the European Union at different times, on different political occasions that ruled both in their countries and at European Union level. Also, I want to say that the task of the European Integration Ministry will not only be to conduct negotiations with the European Union on full membership, not just to conduct negotiations on whether we have met all the conditions of the negotiating chapters, the task of the European Integration Ministry, I think it is very important to stress, education of Serbian citizens on how important it is and why it is important for Serbia to become a member of the European Union. Education of citizens, education of our businessmen, our companies, our entrepreneurs, about how projects are written, to get certain funds from EU pre-accession funds, and these funds are not small. Many of our people have trouble applying to the EU in a quality way, because they do not know how to write projects well to get money from EU pre-accession funds. After all, the task of the European Integration Ministry, Mr Jovanovic, will also be something that has been taken over by the country. Are we, in the Serbian Progressive Party, absolutely satisfied with the content of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU? We didn't. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Neither are we.) Neither are you. The difference between us and you is that you were wondering at the time, we weren't wondering, but it doesn't matter. So, the SAA is signed, the SAA is ratified, the SAA is an international contract, so it obliges the Republic of Serbia. One ministry must work to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Communities and their Member States, as the full name of the agreement is, and this will, among other things, be the job of the European Integration Ministry. As you know, Serbia signed in 2008 and in that excessive desire to become an EU member as soon as possible, not taking care of domestic interests, primarily economically, I think that the then Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who even boasted about the pen that he signed on April 29th 2008, otherwise in the wake of the election campaign, since the elections were on May 11th. So we will have a lot of work to do with the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU in those parts of that Agreement that are currently not fully in line with the European, or economic interests of the Republic of Serbia. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, and all those who deal with agriculture understand that very well. Many socialist countries that signed Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the EU, i.e. European Communities and their Member States, left themselves with some transitional time periods so that they could comply with EU regulations and standards. Unfortunately, in 2008, this was not done, and now, this government, led by Aleksandar Vucic and the government, which is likely to run Ana Brnabic from next Wednesday or Thursday, will fall into part, one of a very simple task. On September 1, 2017, we need to find some solution to whether or not the site will be able to buy real estate in the Republic of Serbia, including agricultural land. Some of this issue will have to be seriously addressed, and not only by this question, many other issues that are part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is signed, do not mind if I use a bit of a harder word, but rather a bit too quickly, which will have to be implemented in the Republic of Serbia, with some parts of it obviously going to have to experience some modification, so that it does not suffer, or the negative consequences would not suffer the Serbian economy. The formation of the European Integration Ministry is otherwise a practice for almost all countries of the former Socialist countries, which have joined the EU. So we are not the first to form the European Integration Ministry. Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia did so before us. In Croatia, it was called, if I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. So we have taken some solutions that we thought were good and can help the state of Serbia in these negotiations, which are difficult, which are thorny, which are for the Republic of Serbia, in some parts, especially because of the negotiating chapter 35 concerning normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations, sometimes very painful. In that sense, I think the Ministry of European Integration and how it makes sense, I don't know who will be Minister for European Integration, but if it is a person like Jadranka Joksimovic, a very educated, brave, determined and shake women, I think the ministry will have good results in its work. In the end, about Kosovo and Metohija, that's how we differ. You think, if I'm wrong, you correct me, there should be two policies on Kosovo and Metohija. One government-led policy and another policy led by Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, that policy is being advocated by Aleksandar Jablanovic, for that policy is being advocated by the man who pulled the gun on his Serb brothers, a few days before the elections. He's thinking what you're thinking. What does Belgrade have to ask about the political life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? We should be wondering about that. Well, that's where you and I are different. You say Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija should lead their policies independent of Belgrade, and we say in the Serbian Progressive Page -- Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, not only because it is written in the Constitution, but because it is a historic, spiritual vertical of the Serbian people and we believe that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija can best protect their interests by leading a common, united and complex policy with the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17398	I'll answer your fifteen in two minutes. First, Srebrenica. I'm the last man in the world who wants to talk about it at all. I wish I'd never heard of Srebrenica, like all of us, but we've adopted here the bill proposed by your government, with a new member threatening criminal sanctions to challenge genocide. You know, the International Court of Justice has made a decision and we can have an opinion, but we have a decision to respect. I'm unhappy about this Srebrenica, because of 1,600 children killed in Sarajevo, because of all of our unfortunate people who died in Bosnia, Croatia, Kosovo, and there's no point in wasting time here at all. I don't know who's happy and happy about it. I don't think anyone wanted to. It's the price of big mistakes that have been made. Circumstances we found ourselves in that we couldn't manage. As far as this Kosovo policy is concerned, what do I have to do with Jablanovic? He was your chamber, so you had a fight. I'm telling you something else, if the Serbs in Mitrovica were wondering they wouldn't in one day and build and tear down the walls that you were setting there. Let those people who live there run authentic politics. I don't think that policy will be contrary to Serbia's interests, I don't think. I trust them so much, but I believe that they are always under great pressure because no one sees them as people who speak of their interests, but as people who are the transmission of Belgrade's policy that does not pay the price for their mistakes in Kosovo and Metohija. Who today is responsible because in 2007, we rejected Ahtisaari's plan, and here I asked to modify it, not reject it. They pay a price for it down in Kosovo. Where today the Prophets, Samardzici, Simici, all those who advised in Vienna, remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17399	Thank you. Time. Thank you, MP. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Before that, I ask you MPs to agree to Article 27 and Article 87 paragraphs 2 and 3. I'll let the Rules of Procedure know that we'll be working today and after 1800 hours. Here you go. Gordana Komic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17400	Thank you. The Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act has two major changes and two smaller ones at first sight, perhaps not such noticeable changes as compared to the current 2014 Ministry Act, since we did not change the Ministry Act after the snap elections in 2016. Two major changes are two new ministries, environmental protection and European integration. Two fewer are the abolition of the E-Government Directorate. Finally, I will ask the promoter to explain to me the motivation to abolish the E-Government and the way in which the work entrusted to the Directorate will be done in the future and secondly, which seems less important, that any staff solutions, i.e. everything regarding the managing authority, will be given to the ministry responsible for the gas economy and for the oil economy. When you have plenty of experience with laws, then you can read the reasons for the profile of these changes and the addition of the laws immediately from these two large and two small ones. They're the result of a coalition deal, and that's the first bad news in this law. They are not the result of strategic definitions or coalitions, or personal people who will be proposed to us to be members of the government. This came from "Give it to me, mine is the first one I've seen." Sadly, it represents only one in a series of such laws that have been passed in this congregation. What is the step I would like to see and the step on which MP Cedomir Jovanovic spoke clearly that it cannot be clearer. The dialogue on this, if we can't make a dialogue on how we make the Ministry Act, we'll hardly have a successful ministry. But a few words about these two major changes to the ministry on environmental protection and European integration. The competencies that are ahead of us, which are clearly supported by the majority, and the very proposal for the inclusion of the Ministry of Environment Protection, were my amendment in 2014. That amendment was rejected as offensive. I didn't have two minutes to explain the amendment. It's not a bit of a pleasure to see, almost in general, your words, three years later and listen to the explanation that a ministry is necessary three years later. I consider that my mistake, not yours, because we've lost time. We lost three years for nothing. If you want proof, you have a valid idea, and I deeply believe that my idea of a strategy is to protect the environment in the ministry, then you have to be able to fight for your idea to convince people who don't want to hear, won't learn, won't know, and they're proud that they don't know, because the damage is common. In this case, I really feel it is my fault and that my amendment in the same text as it is now, the text in the ministry was rejected as offensive, with the exception of the chairman of the board, then the MP of the government of Cvian who said - I couldn't vote that the amendment was offensive, but it's okay. Why is it important that we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection? Why have we had it since it was introduced first with Minister Angelko Mihajlovic, so Minister Aleksandar Popovic, etc., with ministries that have been linked to another sector with environmental protection, whether science, whether business planning or in this last case the worst possible solution to agriculture, forestry and water industry, because it is a network ministry that is important to society for at least three reasons. At the growth and support of this ministry, the strategy that political parties have about it, the development of society starts, Serbia still does not have it, and it is a shared responsibility again, we are not talking about development, we are either proud that someone has words, and someone on the other hand has no ears or vice versa, we are dealing with Serbia that does not exist long ago. The myths and legends that are long gone, we are not engaged in development, except a few places in Serbia, one of which is the Women's Platform for Development of Serbia, which deals with professional dialogue. How are we going to look like a society and a space in ten, five, seven years? No colleagues, we don't do development, we deal with each other. There is no such development, we are dealing with political leaps, not political dialogue, and we are promoting a monologue in this home and everywhere, and this coalition agreement is the expression of a used monologue. Let's make a deal, and we'll banish it through the Assembly. Of that there is no development and it is my responsibility to amend, as much as it is yours. What will be the subject of this Ministry of Environmental Protection? I have submitted one amendment, and I hope that I will be more successful than in 2014 when you also rejected this, as offensively, still amuses me, I must say. The amendment regarding retro-protective belts, why did I submit that amendment? First because with many colleagues from the government, I struggle to see through and see that we have ruined regulations regarding retroprotective belts, that this means increased erosion, that this means traffic disturbances, that it means neglect towards the environment. Our mutual dialogue, when it comes to environmental protection and the Committee, the Committee's presidents and present and past, is something that gave me hope that the dialogue on Serbia's development was possible and I know, regardless of the chairman of the ruling coalition and the opposition that we had no misunderstanding to hear each other when we were talking about the need to establish a Ministry of Environmental Protection. It's similar when it comes to retroprotective belts. There are colleagues here from the authorities with whom he could dialogue again, and we even wanted to make a special law, to determine who would be responsible for the retro-protective belts in Serbia. It's a very important topic. Why did I pass that law? For one wisdom. I don't know if it's east, western, how ancient it is, but it says -- that the development of a society starts when people who know they won't enjoy the shade of treetops still plant those trees. That moment, I hope that he came to Serbia and when we think about retroprotective belts, even if we presently, this generation did not enjoy treetops, which we hope along the valley, along the erosion, along the roads to plant and make our environment healthier, our building safer, our traffic better. We very little need this amendment to lift the famous sentence, against which I wage war, is not my job, because when you ask for retroactive belts of local self-government, they say – it's not my job, it's traffic. When you ask traffic, they say – it's not my job, it's the infrastructure, when you ask the infrastructure they say – it's not my job, it's agriculture, and that's how we're left with no trees and no cold crosses, whoever enjoys them. Please consider the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection for retro-protective belts. What is the link between this ministry of environmental protection and I want every happiness and success that is proposed for the minister and I hope that the dialogue established in both the green parliamentary groups and among many of us will be strong enough to hold the minister or minister responsible for applying the regulations for which he will be responsible. How is it connected to the European Integration Ministry? In the case of the majority's decision to form a European Integration Ministry, it is a risky job, which is again, it seems to me that a coalition deal has been made. Why is it a risky job? For at least three reasons. The first is that in 2017, the EU is neither like the EU in 2013, 2007 or 2004. The second is that I have been asking all EU officials and all those who have had an impact on European policy for months. One important question I finally got an answer to. The important question is: is there an EU enlargement in the financial perspective after 2020? The answer is – you don't know. Please hear very seriously what I'm trying to share with you as information. You can shake your hand. I am from the opposition, I am yellow, democratic, at will that enlargement into the EU budget will not bring you. What it can bring is to start a conversation here and understand how difficult it will be to manage the European Integration Ministry if it remains that no one knows whether there will be money for EU enlargement after 2020. I don't have any use for pointing fingers and saying -- here's this minister's guilt, this Prime Minister is guilty. I have no use for it, as you do not benefit from pointing your finger at me and my comrades with slander and defamation, but you have pleasure. I have no pleasure in it. I think it is the first task of this future ministry to discuss in the Assembly whether there is money for enlargement in the European Union after 2020 or not. They currently do not know whether there will be cohesion funds, and some IPA or any other kind of funds, an extremely serious thing for Serbia that is already late. Secondly, I ask you to pass on a message to the prime minister, whoever she intends to propose to the Ministry of European Integration, that she should most likely be given the status of Deputy Prime Minister. Without that, she can't coordinate. That's what my colleague Natasa Vukkovic will discuss in detail. It's not the subject of this law, but I have to mention this now, because it depends on how this ministry works. He can't do it without the Deputy Prime Minister's status. As one of the ministers, he will not succeed in doing the work requiring integration. Another problem with this ministry -- an awful lot of people who knew a lot about European integrations have gone away and that is our common problem. You no longer have the personnel ready and ready to do whatever is necessary in the context of European integration. We're honored for various reasons. It's not an accusation for anyone, nor is it commendable for anyone, it's a state of affairs. It has already been mentioned that working groups formed by the ministries are not accidentally moved into the European Integration Ministry because there is no further horizontal coordination, then no more essential jobs for you, and we who do business know how much it is, for example. It took us two years to get a basic name for a person to be in the drug department. Name, last name, nothing else. Just give the Commission a name and a last name. If there is no vice-presidential seat in the government of the European Integration Ministry, it will produce more damage than benefits. If there is no dialogue in this Assembly on where we are as an extension to the European Union agenda, it will not be able to do so by any plan, no kind of words are helpful. Finally, if there is no real dialogue on how much it costs to reform in the framework of European integration in all chapters, it will not work again. Why is it important that we use these amendments to supplement the ministry law to discuss which, following today's discussion, I see that people do not understand? This Regulation shall enter into The European Union's unique position on Belgrade and Pristina's relations, the Brussels agreements, seven plus four points, have nothing to do with the enlargement of the European Union. Please don't lie to people. The EAS and the European Commission are responsible for foreign policy. I think that's the problem, that's going to be a problem for the minister. I think there should be dialogue here, to find ways to get the communications that are in one place about the European Union, so, at present, Commissioner Mogerini and all the other chapters that are with Commissioner Han, that this minister at the vice-presidential post in the government has a mechanism to be informed at the same time about what's going on. Especially since the European Union has no firm criteria for whether or not we are doing what we do under this Chapter 35 concerning both Brussels agreements. Why is it even more important to have a dialogue on whether this is the best solution possible? Because we're in the middle of a process that we all call the Berlin Process. I'm supporting that process. I am in favour of decisions and declarations signed by the Prime Ministers in six Western Balkan countries or the president of the states, but we have never discussed here that the Berlin Process is not the European Union's decision. The European Commission has not decided on the Berlin process. The Berlin Process was not decided by the Enlargement Directorate and I ask you that we have the awareness that this is a sort of process, important, I repeat, I support, a process that should replace the integration process, in exchange, in the best sense of the word. What's the European Integration Ministry gonna do about it? Are we going to act like it's decided at EU level or are we going to say -- wait, what are we doing here, what are we doing in the six Western Balkans, what Berlin plus, what kind of fund, where is that, what kind of a single market? In recent talks on this easily, almost electorally, we need a single market and a customs union at the Western Balkan Sixh, we said, we had this, this single market, it was called SFRY and no one liked it, so we take care of what we are asking our governments and our heads of state and government. The simplest thing is to say that your Prime Minister or president of the state has no idea about anything. For many government and state presidents, this is the most sad truth, but it does not help to make development dialogue stronger in our region, nor does it help this future European integration ministry really be effective and really work. I'm glad there's at least some pale hope that once, I don't know if again for three years, as with my environmental amendment, which three years ago was rejected as offensive, we're going to get to the point where the Ministry of Environmental Protection needs it, so let's just say that in three years, we'll understand that this light joy of verbal insults and folklore exchanges doesn't amuse anyone but ourselves, and if we could then give it up ourselves. If he can't, then we'll just delay good decisions and waste time, as we needlessly lost five years in the field of environmental protection due to ignorance, as we unnecessarily had an unpleasant debate on amendments to the Waste Management Act because someone forgot to enter a budget fund into the Waste Management Act. Serbia is our common house and our common courtyard. We can argue about a lot of things, but I think one thing should stop being slow, which is that we all have equal rights in this National Assembly to talk about how we see Serbia in two years, in five years, in ten years, whoever is in power, whoever is in opposition. It is the Europeanisation of Serbia. If there is awareness of how important the environment is, then there is little hope that we should stop looking like a small group of ourselves entertained people and actually deal with the affairs that the Constitution says we should deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17401	Thank you. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17402	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, allow me to begin by thanking Cedomir Jovanovic, Aleksandar Martinovic and Gordana Comic for returning to the Serbian parliament what should be this high house where we were sent by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They returned the courtesy, the culture of dialogue, the way you talk, whether you belong to this or that political party, whether you're part of the government or part of the opposition. On the other hand, I am sorry and ashamed, I am ashamed that we have all been listening in the past few hours to discuss the law on amendments to the Ministry Act by those who do not respect the Constitution, by those who do not respect the laws, by those who would share the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although they are all equal before the law, even those who have a different sexual orientation. So if that's how we conduct the debate, we open the door, we invite some neo-Nazis, we invite some who are closer to fascist phenomena that to these citizens, just because they're different, they can do what they want. They can even attack them physically, they can abuse them, and they can insult them. It is a shame for all of us because SDPS and our President Rasim Ljajic are trying, it is the citizens who judge, that the culture of dialogue, the political debate on all the issues that are happening in our society, that we are leading them in a way that we do not see each other as political enemies, but as different political options. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, which is on the agenda today, it is common practice, of course, to bring before the assembly of each Government and amendments to the Ministry Act. From the experience we have, the most often proposed solutions are a reflection of the party's different compromises, especially in situations where the elected government does not have a stable majority. The bill we're considering today doesn't belong to that Corps. These draft laws in a large number of amendments and additions have made only the most necessary changes concerning the proper demarcation of jurisdiction between individual ministries. It is proposed that two new ministries be formed in the field of European integration and environmental protection, due to the size of jobs that are overgrown by the existing organisation. That's what my distinguished predecessors were talking about. In my presentation, I will therefore talk about all the reasons that justify the existence of the European Integration Ministry and which justify the existence of the environment ministry. The main reason for the establishment of the European Integration Ministry is the need for the organisational unification of all entities whose competence is to carry out European integration. It is much more practical, it was agreed by representatives of the opposition political parties, how well I listened, that the accession procedures of European integration of water from one centre, especially in the years that await us when integration, we must make it clear and loud to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, enter the most difficult negotiating phase. The European Integration Office is formally shut down, but employees, including many young people, exceptional experts, will continue to work at the European Integration Ministry. As part of the new ministry, employees from the cabinets of the minister without portfolio, in charge of European integration, as well as employees from the government's General Secretariat, who are professional support to the negotiating team. The fact is that the European Integration Ministry will unite a whole expert elite from this area that can best manage this very, very important process. There are a number of challenges facing this ministry. Some analysts, people who have been following events that are related to EU accession for years, warn that Serbia, on the path of European integration, will need great energy, because the degree of difference we have in relation to the development of EU Member States with the major enlargement that happened, remember, in 2004, led to a phenomenon called enlargement fatigue. As a result, the process of Eurointegration is slightly slowing down, and the criteria for EU accession are tightening. That's what we as a state and society know best. In addition, our country particularly slows down the EU's insistence to address a number of political problems previously. Our country, unfortunately, does not have the privilege to commit itself as some other politically stable EU countries only to taking over and applying advanced European standards, but is conditioned by resolving very complex and difficult political situations. We all know what I'm talking about. The huge work ahead of the new European Integration Ministry best illustrates the fact that the National Programme of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of EU legal flows for the period 2014 to 2018 has nearly 1,000 pages and treats all areas of Serbia's socio-political system. The mandatory part of the National Programme is also a plan to bring our legislation into line with European law. The established dynamics are required to implement all ministries, which has already been said, with the ministry of European integration, of course, following the adoption of this law on coordination affairs. In a formal sense, in neighbouring countries, European integration businesses do not have uniform organisational forms. I will remind you that Croatia, for example, had the Ministry of European Integration between 1998 and 2005, and was later educated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. In fact, each country decides independently on how to organise its own government, in line with the tasks ahead of it, which are expected on that path. When we talk about a proposal to separate the Ministry of Environment from the Ministry of Agriculture, the reasons are also justified, because agriculture with water and forests and environmental protection are large and wide areas, which attach great importance to the European integration process. In a report by the European Commission for the past year, I will remind you, in Chapter 27, entitled Life Environment and Climate Change, that Serbia has achieved a certain level of preparation in this area and progress in harmonising policies and legislation with the EU's legal assets. It noted that Serbia improved strategic planning and set up the Green Fund on the basis of a 2015 recommendation. However, on the basis of this report, a number of tasks are set before us, or before the state of Serbia. I'll just remind you of some important ones. An integrated authorisation system is required in order to prevent industrial pollution. An emergency management system and natural disasters are required. Water and air protection plans are required. Disposals which do not comply with the legal provisions and which are required to be closed and the necessary resources shall be invested in the classification and recycling of waste. Serbia is also expected to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which we have recently ratified in this assembly. It is clear to everyone that these are big and very serious jobs that require a lot of investment and great commitment, since in EU countries, attention has long been paid to preserving nature and a healthy environment. Serbia needs this ministry, therefore, the environment ministry, which will focus on establishing and applying strict standards and rooting out any form of boasting, bad habits, whose witnesses, unfortunately, we have been. The MPs of the SDPS also support other proposed changes and additions in this bill, because we believe that a rational distinction between individual ministries has been carried out, as well as that the two new ministries provide much greater opportunities for dealings in the future, the affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are more efficient. Before I finish my discussion, you'll allow me to have a little dyspression. Namely, both as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and as a human and a national MP, in the capacity of someone who respects and respects the diversity and tolerance of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Serbia of Muslim religion, who tomorrow celebrate the most significant and greatest Muslim holiday of Ramadan Bajram from the heart and wish them a lot of health, happiness and success, both to them and their families, with the traditional greeting of Bajram Sheriff Mubarek Olsun. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17403	Thank you, colleague Omerovic, for the discussion and for this card. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of an hour. With class at 3:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17404	Dear MPs, we continue our work. Who else is reporting from the authorities? The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17405	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as president of the Independent Parliament Club and president of the Civil Platform, at first I must conclude, without any surprise or illusion that something will change in the future when this assembly majority is concerned, that the way this session has been called, unfortunately, which has become traditional about such an important issue, such as the structure of the new government, 24 hours before it is maintained, only the continuation of the degradation of the National Assembly, the MPs, and therefore the citizens of Serbia. Given that we had less than 24 hours to prepare ourselves for such an important session, I would ask for the understanding of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and, above all, the citizens of Serbia if any of what my colleagues and I say is not said in the right way. What I can safely conclude is that the proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry Act, which is now in front of the MPs only a year after the previous government was elected, in addition to the introduction of two new ministries, testifys that this is primarily about the government of continuity, that it is about the reconstruction of the government, which is due to political trade and to the satisfaction of some personal ambitions and appetites of coalition partners, and not about the real desire for reforms and the more efficient functioning of the government. Otherwise, why are these new ministries not formed a year ago, or earlier, which is particularly true for the environment ministry? For a long time, we have not been involved in improving the quality of life of people, but in a political combination, whose ultimate goal is to monopolise power and merit, while sharing responsibility. So in the last five years, twice without any need, with an existing, comfortable, congregational majority, we've gone to extraordinary elections, whose only goal was to increase one man's power, not create conditions for the advancement of the entire society. I will now look back on the establishment of these two new ministries, first of all, of the Ministry of European Integration and, at the risk of perhaps being misunderstood, by some fellow Members of Parliament, even by some MPs from my parliamentary group, I will start with something positive when it comes to the establishment of this ministry. The establishment of the European Integration Ministry could be positive from the point of view of building capacity for the use of cohesion funds, as the Office for European Integration in this area has neither the capacity nor the legal basis to lead and direct the process. However, the negative sides of the establishment of the European Integration Ministry have significantly overcome any positive side I mentioned earlier. The abolition of the European Integration Office introduces a politicisation of professional affairs. There is a significant reduction in operationality in this process, and the Office has largely been a reflection of this operationality, and it is very possible that it will lead to a further outflow of expert personnel, which are also an institutional memory and which rests most of the responsibility and credit for Serbia's current process of European integration, even when it comes to this technical part of the process. The establishment of the ministry, i.e. by abolishing the office, all the persons placed in this institution will practically lose their jobs, so there is a likelihood that some of these precious people will either be expelled or leave themselves. The additional reason is that this drowning will bring the persons down to a lower level, and this will particularly reflect seriously on the main negotiator, Mrs Tanja Miscevic, who will likely be brought down to the level of the state secretary and stop being head of a special working body, which will lose not only the possibility of attending government sessions, but also that in an equal way they are meeting and talking to senior EU officials, and, above all, because of the slowness of the European integration process, a large number of very competent people have left the office. Moreover, the negotiating team for EU accession lost several prominent members in May, asking the question – what will happen to this sector's role in the European integration process? All of this, and not only that, at a technical level can only further slow this process down. The question arises – are we going to end the negotiating team for the first time in history, in the middle of negotiations? It is most oddly said that during negotiations with the EU, the institutional structure of participants in the process, i.e. the concept of EU negotiations, is changing. The most successful countries in the European integration process, such as Poland, did not have the Ministry of European Integration, but during the entire process had highly specialized technical secretariats, regardless of the names they wore, whether it was the office, the secretariat, the committee, etc. The main motive for creating the ministry seems to be to raise the current minister's political importance without portfolios in charge of European integration, not to wish for the process itself to improve and speed up, and during the past year, the minister has never appeared before the resolute Assembly Committee on European Integration, which testifies to her relationship with the Assembly, which only fits into the general trend of degrading parliament's control role. It also raises the question of which is the portfolio, i.e. for which area is the ministry in charge? The process of European integration, i.e. adapting to European regulations, is the work of all ministries. This is best witnessed by the number of chapters, i.e. areas covered by the European integration process. I would also point out that the reasons set out in the law for the creation of this ministry are inconclusive. It states, among other things, that these are greater obligations for communication with EU institutions. The question therefore arises – whether perhaps the Office for European Integration has not successfully performed that function so far and I doubt it. As someone who, ten years ago, dealt directly with European integration issues at a time when the office for these affairs was just established, I have insight into the work and evolution of this institution, meaning from the very beginning, and the model that was then established, in which the Deputy Prime Minister who has greater political authority, especially when it comes to the coalition government, in charge of these jobs has proved, regardless of all the shortcomings, to be the most adequate. Namely, in accordance with Article 13. The Government Act, the Deputy Prime Minister, directs and coordinates the work of the government's authorities in areas designated by the Prime Minister. The minister certainly cannot co-ordinate the work of other ministries, i.e. other ministers, because they have the same status, and on top of that, the European Integration Ministry cannot survive over a long period of time, and most likely will have to drown the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and therefore, if it insists on this solution, as Mrs Comic has previously said, the best solution is for the minister, the European Integration Minister to be in the status of Deputy Prime Minister. To conclude, after the establishment of the European Integration Ministry, we will certainly, at least half a year, have an unoperative system in the field of European integration. It will only represent eye blurring, both to the European and the local public, that even more serious approaches to this process, in a situation where basic European values, the rule of law, freedom of expression of human rights are constantly violated, and both sides are financing that they care about essential progress in this process. Now I'm going to say a few words about another ministry that's being established, it's the Ministry of Environmental Protection. My colleague Sonja Pavlovic and my colleague from the Civil Platform and Parliament Club The Independent MP is one of our leading experts in this area, so that through the amendments, surely, incomparably better than I will touch this issue, but I will say a few words. As with the establishment of the European Integration Ministry, I will begin the positive tone exposure, especially because of the fact that this ministry is incomparably more well-founded than the first ministry I spoke about. It is not a burning reminder that 30% of the AKI, i.e. the EU's legal assets, regulates this particular area, which further contributes to the creation of this ministry. In view of the state of the environment in us, which we have been in constant danger for decades, the establishment of this ministry was beyond necessary, but it was certainly too late. Serbia annually produces two and a half million tonnes of waste, has more than three and a half thousand unsanitary active dumps on its territory, and only 8% of waste water is being cleaned up. According to an estimate of the National Strategy for Environmental Arrogation, adopted in 2011, Serbia will need more than 10 billion euros to take over from EU membership, in the area of the environment by the end of 2030, and the latest estimate is that the amount is now close to 15 billion euros, of which eight billion euros only goes to the water protection area. The assessment is that we will comply with the basic requirements by 2031, and the water areas only in 2041, provided we agree to work immediately. However, as well as in the presentation on the establishment of the European Integration Ministry, a positive assessment of the establishment of the ministry is about to end. Namely, the main motive for creating this ministry is the opening of Chapter 27, in negotiations with the EU, that is, the inflow of large funds from the EU, as well as our financial contribution to projects in this area, since we are obliged to co-finance 50% of these projects and will benefit the most from those who will have access, or realise these projects. So far, the budget does not show this type of responsibility, i.e. no funds for all these projects, so very close co-operation between the newly formed environment ministry and the finance ministry will be needed. Despite the poor environmental status, Serbia is in a better position, at least formally, than most countries in the region, but this situation is better, above all, because of a package of reform laws in this area adopted in 2009, as well as the already mentioned national strategy for environmental approximation adopted in 2011. Postkrining, a process that was carried out in 2015, followed by a mini action plan based on the previous two documents, also contributed to the European Commission's recommendation to open Chapter 27 on the environment without additional conditions, despite the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, unfortunately, went in the opposite direction. The question is also why has this government, since this government has been in continuum in power for five years, abolished the Environment Fund and the Chemical Agency in 2012? The abolition of the two institutions has jeopardised the implementation of adopted project policies, and has marred Serbia's credibility as a beneficiary of international assistance, as foreign donors have invested considerable funds in building the agency's capacity. Moreover, due to the closure of the Fund, all the fees and fees intended for ecology went directly to the budget, which opened up the possibility that these funds could be used for other purposes. Also, for the first time in history, this government, or the ruling majority, creatively brought together in 2012 into one ministry of energy and environmental protection, and that is to quote and remind you of one of the favorite sayings of the leading opposition politician in Serbia in the 1990s -- as if he were giving a goat to guard the cabbage. It also appears that such a well-conceived ministry will deal with regulatory, or international obligations, and to a lesser extent with their implementation. Moreover, different international conventions and agreements are not only not implemented, but many are not yet included in our legal framework. To conclude a discussion on the establishment of this ministry, the experience of a large number of countries is that natural resources are united in one ministry, which is certainly not the case with this law. When we talk about the positive sides of this law, I would refer to extending the foreign ministry's jurisdiction. As a former ambassador, I feel a special obligation to look back on this positive side, which no one has talked about so far, or even a proposalist, which is an extension of jurisdiction that creates legal conditions for sending civilians to peacekeeping missions, as well as for sending humanitarian aid. These activities contribute to increasing the country's reputation, as well as its greater visibility, and the cost of sending civilians is lower than the cost of sending military personnel. I'd like to point out, regretfully, that even in this government, there will be no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. The absence of this ministry could show a relationship with minorities and neighbours, i.e. towards European integration, and regional co-operation is one of the pillars of European integration, which could indirectly affect the position of Serbs in the region. Perhaps this problem could be resolved by strengthening the capacity of the Office for Human and Minority Rights and by removing overlapping the competences of different ministries in this area. The question also arises -- why is the Electronic Administration Directorate being abolished, or is it not given a solution to the further functioning of this Directorate, whether it will become just a department within a ministry, which would degrade it, or perhaps be part of the cabinet of the Prime Minister? In this area we are already lagging behind other countries, from law to their implementation. The citizens' platform supports European integration, only if the process is genuine on both sides, and not that it creates an impression that both sides care about the true reforms and the EU's accession, and that in reality the topic of European values, which are at the heart and the programme of our organisation, are government rights, freedom of expression and respect for human and minority rights, are being violated and suppressed in the second plan for the imaginary security of stability, i.e. for the sake of supporting so-called. Stabilitocracy. The process of European integration is a mechanism that has brought prosperity in all countries, which have become members of the European Union, because it mostly contributes to improving the rule of law and reduces uncertainty, while increasing investment in infrastructure, and improving all systems of vital importance for life. We believe that the continuation of the policy that was led in the previous period, and this law and the government that will emerge from it are the character of such a policy, will lead to Serbia's further lagging behind the region, an increase, instead of reducing the differences in development compared to the European Union, and will be able to provide citizens with only one unspective future, at the very beginning of our continent. The success of the process of European integration, i.e. failure, is also witnessed by the fact that Serbia has opened ten of the 35 chapters since the opening of the negotiations, and the two have closed down, and those who shut down after automation. By comparison, Montenegro opened 28 chapters after five years of negotiations, and three temporarily closed. Because of everything previously said, in Vote Day, MEPs will vote against the amendment and addition of the Ministry Act, and then against the election, the new old government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17406	Thank you. Mira Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17407	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the PUPS Parliamentary Group will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act, because we, in principle, last year, in 2016, when we had elections and when President Vukic, was then prime minister. I'd only like to pray, if you don't mind, a little quiet. Thank you. Last year, after the elections ended in 2016, Prime Minister Vukic very precisely defined the government's policy in his exposé over the next four years. We from the PUPS accepted these strategic goals, as well as this assembly majority, and we are perfectly logical that now in this amendment that took place in the presidential elections, when Prime Minister Vukic won, there was a great opportunity for what he showed in the meantime to change now. Whether there will be 18 ministries, 20 or 25, for us from PUPS is absolutely irrelevant. The point is that we implement all those goals that were outlined last year in that exposé, and the policy that we've all adopted together. These goals are what they are, accepted from our side, sometimes looking for more radical changes, sometimes looking for more radical cuts. I was surprised this morning by a lot of heated discussions about these two ministries, singled out, above all because the Ministry of Ecology existed, so it was within agriculture, etc. It is something that we have to do and it is absolutely logical that it is now isolated and that we meet all those and requirements, after all, that the European Union is giving us. We've had the European Integration Office for years. The current minister without portfolios has been doing great, with a lot of authority, with quite firmness, with knowledge, and I don't see why they're already expressing doubts today whether the ministry will be able to function or not. All the problems we encounter, we'll solve in walking, so I have no doubt if she or anyone else the future prime minister has set up, I have no dilemma at all that they will not respond to the functions they will be placed on and that they will not be able to do so. The point is that we actually do something. We can't choose our way to the European Union, we've all been sticking to it for years, and then we stop every time we think it's convenient for us. We have to do things we don't like, we have to do the things we're asked to do. It wasn't an easy support for us from PUPS for fiscal consolidation. It may have been the most painful thing for us from PUPS, but we all, as very experienced people, with a lot of knowledge, with a lot of internships and a lot of raids, knew it was inevitable. And it turned out to be the right thing to do. So, these are the things that came along. Whether the practice will show in the next period of this government that maybe there's something else that needs to be changed, that maybe another ministry should have been added, we'll see. But anyway, I don't see why we lost half the day in some debates, I don't see anything wrong with that. I agree with both Mrs Comic and Mr Jovanovic when they spoke about the communication that needs to be in the Assembly. For us at PUPS, that's already known. We are very polite and educated, unfortunately, sometimes considered to be an expression of incompetence. But we haven't shown it in general and we've shown it to our careers, and so I think that the support that we're going to give to the amending and supplementing the Ministry Act is a logical clue to everything we've been doing these past years, trying to make our contribution to achieving the objectives outlined and improving the economy and improving the standard of everyone in Serbia, especially the pensioners we represent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17408	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we met to adopt amendments to a law that should be the most lasting, which should be organic law, and we are changing it from government to government. You remember probably my controversy with Vukic last time around the Ministry of Ecology. The Wolf was against it, so he still spoke, and we, when we were in the Government of the People's Unity, didn't have that ministry. And I answered him – well, we had, Branislav Blazic was a minister, so today he repeated that speech he gave there when he was a minister. So we need the Ministry of Ecology. You should. But the serious government is looking to make serious laws, not laws from today to tomorrow. Now we need a new combination with coalition partners, so we're going to do it a little bit now to adjust it. Organic laws should be passed quality, professionally. People who know that job have to work on organic laws. Not only do they have formal qualifications, but they really know that matter. That's why we Serbian radicals don't mind reintroducing the Ministry of Ecology. We had it at the time of our government, of our people's unity, and they had it even more domicile, and I think, in one or two periods, you've abolished it, so, here, you're introducing it again. So, there's been a bit of a head-to-head. It's okay. But what you're doing, this is amazing to me -- that you're looking for the establishment of a European Integration Ministry. What's the Ministry? The ministry is by definition the highest authority of the administration in one area. Only one minister can manage the entire state administration. It happened in some monarchies. You know why? Because the king was completely out of the law. The king could not answer for his actions even when they were criminal acts, so the royal acts had to be signed by a minister and his signature was called "prescription". And if the king can't answer by now, the minister answers. As the state administration branches, the number of ministries has been systematically increasing. The Kingdom of Serbia once had four, five, six, seven ministers. We're now getting to 18, and we've had more, and 23 were at some stage, I think. But it is not such a problem in the number of ministries, if the ministry's tasks will be carried out by responsible people and if these ministries will be rationally built. It is impossible for the European Integration Ministry to exist. What's this ministry doing? What administration is under his jurisdiction? What general legal acts will this ministry bring? What kind of administrative procedure is this ministry going to run? With whom will administrative disputes lead, and on what issues? This should all be taken into account in the ministry's jurisdiction. And here, when we look at jurisdiction, it is said that "it is done by the Ministry of State Administration's affairs and related professional affairs relating to them". First of all, the ministry can only do business from the state administration. The Ministry isn't here to do professional work. Professional activities are not performed by authorities either, professional activities are carried out by experts. And it is understood that each ministry must have certain experts to carry out its professional activities. Not to be hired on the party list, but because they're professional and they know how to do a job. It is said that these jobs are related to coordination, monitoring, reporting regarding the accession and accession process to the European Union. That tracking, that's what journalists can do, what can the ministry do? Why would the Ministry follow something? There's a tracking service, not a tracking department. It's called coordination. What's that coordinating thing? The Prime Minister, as the first among the equals, co-ordinates, along with other ministers and facilitates the government's work by bringing many decisions into line before the government's session. We used to have government sessions for five minutes, because we agreed in advance. And sometimes that alignment was with the sabers in my hands, especially on the board that I ran, on the Committee on Business and Finance. There are other stenograms. Some of them I've published, and I'm proud of it. Now, what does that follow up mean? In the name of whom they follow and for whom they follow? Reporting. Who's he gonna report to? To report to the government? Well, the government itself is doing the job. Afterwards, trades relating to the coordination of accession negotiations with the EU and working bodies established for the purposes of the negotiations. What does that mean? This is nonsense. If this is such an important matter, it must be the foreign minister, it must be the Prime Minister, it should be prepared again by professional services. For the last five minutes, I will speak against the EU, so warn me, Maya, please, when the time comes. Then, directing the work of the negotiating team to conduct negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union and giving mandatory instructions and instructions, according to the government's policy. So here are the legal acts of mandatory instruction and instruction. What instructions? What instructions? Is that normal somewhere? Is it going to be normal? Will sanctions be prescribed if that doesn't happen? It's not gonna happen. Analytical support in the work of the negotiating team. Look, analysts are supposed to be working for us at the Republic Bureau of Statistics and other professional bodies, not the ministry, the ministry is not dealing with analysis. Coordination of the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association and Labour Agreement established by that Agreement. I've already said, the co-ordinator is the Prime Minister as the first among the equals. The new ministry can't handle the authority of other ministries now, so it co-ordinates them. This isn't the Ministry of Ministry or Ministry of Monitoring, so he can track all the ministers and all the other ministries. Then, co-ordination of the preparation of strategic documents regarding the EU accession process, co-ordination of the preparation of strategic documents. Strategic documents, if it really is some strategic documents, need to be done again by experts, not by the ministry. Give the Minister a flock of sheep to guard if he knows, if he knows nothing, but this needs someone who knows what the strategy is. Here, let's ask all our ministers, none of them know the definition of strategy, I'm putting my head on a log. They didn't know until today if he didn't teach them Lazani from tonight on out. Coordination of the preparation and implementation of the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. This has been driven to madness. If we really did enter the EU, and we never will, I guarantee you with my head that we will never, then the experts of individual ministries in the field of education, health, culture, information, social policy, mining, industry, trade, tourism, etc., and not one central ministry for all issues. Co-ordination of the co-operation of state administration authorities with the European Commission and other professional bodies of the EU. There is no coordination between the co-operation of state authorities, the authorities of the state administration. The State Administration Authority either cooperates or does not cooperate and its co-operation can only be controlled by the Government as such. Well, every minister who travels abroad should apply to the government to grant him a trip and explain why he's traveling. We had that practice. Maybe you don't have it now. We replaced one deputy minister because he was travelling without consulting, and not a consultation with the government, but sent by his minister from another party, and he didn't contact us. And op, it's gone! As well as co-operation in the accession and accession process with EU institutions. What does co-operation mean? It doesn't mean anything. This sentence right here, that's half a sentence, doesn't mean anything, absolutely nothing. It then lists EU institutions, Member States, candidates and potential candidates. Monitoring and encouraging the harmonisation of the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU regulations and standards and the notification of the EU and the public. The public should be informed by journalists. And what do they have to follow here? Each ministry has its tasks, works within its responsibilities and submits a report to the government. At least he should file a report with the government. Helping ministries and special organisations to comply with EU regulations. That's what law offices need to give such help or these notaries, someone who's professionally involved in this business. The establishment and development of a system for the use of EU structural and cohesion funds. What are these systems? If you get some money, and you get it on a spoon, we get a lot less than they take from us. It still takes every ministry within its jurisdiction to decide, and you here suspend the ministries. Preparation of documents defining development objectives and funding priorities from EU structural and cohesion funds. The Ministry is preparing the documents? I guess they're doing professional people. It's not the department's jurisdiction. Where is the state administration here, as we have in the Ministry of Education a whole series of state institutions, primary schools, secondary schools, universities, higher schools and a whole series of other institutions? The Ministry manages it if it's state-owned institutions, and it can control the work of its inspections, and no inspections are provided here. Because if there was an inspection here, then she'd have to get involved in the affairs of an existing ministry, as is being conducted, for example. School reform in line with some EU supervisions, so only the ministry should investigate, not someone above the ministry. Mayo, are you keeping an eye on him? Monitoring the implementation, evaluation and reporting of implementation of programme documents financed from EU professional and cohesion funds. And like this, for as long as it's gone, it's 20 minutes short to read it all, and there's no meat anywhere. You say you have no money for charm, someone tells you to buy cherries, so you have both meat and fruit. Open the cherry, no worms. Well, there's no worm around here, 'cause the only worm here is supposed to be doing something. All sprayed? Here, you can see it's good, thoroughly sprayed. Now, what's the problem here? We will never enter the EU. This ministry is one of the simplest things. We will only spend money and only the government will distract us as the previous five years about its successes on the European path and for the next four or three years, if we don't bring it down before that, until the people are bored talking about the European path themselves. Give the people bread, not the European way. Give the people back these pensions and parts of the pay you took. One of our secretaries in the parliamentary group has a monthly salary of 25,000 dinars for medium professional equipment, and you are introducing us to the European Integration Ministry. In addition, Serbia has already been offered to enter various forms of Eastern European and Euro-Asian integration. It was officially offered to Wolfie now in Beijing. We have nowhere to go but those Eastern integrations. These westerns just serve to skin us naked. They take more than two billion euros which every year, Serbia only gets bank records from workers working abroad, and as far as it comes from the wallet in the wallet, as much as it is given to relatives and friends, no one can see it anymore. They're using our market, using the fact that there are no customs duties and they're stuffing us with foreign goods, foreign goods that are poisoning our children. We have banned the cultivation of all genetically modified plants, but they are engulfing us with meat produced by feeding cattle organized on the basis of genetically modified soybeans or other foods. Now she's asking who could have written something like this. Please don't say anything that might be offensive. We've successfully made him beautiful. You see one thing, this was written by someone who had no idea about administrative law, and signed by someone who was a doctor of legal science and a professor of administrative law at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad. I don't blame Alexander Martinovic, it's not his fault. It is his fault that Professor Dragan Milko did not seriously apply the criteria when he made the choice in calling the doctor. It's his fault. Because maybe in that case someone else would come here with a more serious proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry Act, not here to distract us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17410	Time. Thank you. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17411	Well, Mr. Seselj has that custom, when someone's with him, then he's the best, when someone leaves him, it's no good. When I was at his place, everything was great, I was smart, I wasn't even a monkey, I wasn't even big ears, and ever since I wasn't with him, everything's upside down, and who let me go on the exam and what kind of doctor I am, etc. But it doesn't matter now. I think there's something else going on here. Mr. Seselj, for objective reasons, therefore, really for objective reasons, was unable to follow the legislation of the Republic of Serbia concerning the state administration. The State Administration Act, Mr. Seselj, was passed in 2005. The Law on State Administration states what the authorities of the state administration are, that they are the ministries, the authorities of the administration in their composition and special organisations and that they are the affairs of the state administration. You've been doing research on how in Article 13a where the detour is defined, and not jurisdiction, you as a doctor of Marxism and Leninism should know, therefore, where the work of the Ministry of European Integration is defined, you've been doing research here as to how this can be done, how it can be done. Well, it can, because it's defined by the State Administration Act. What are the affairs of the state administration? The first job, taking part in forming a government policy, is defined by law. The second job of the state administration is to monitor the situation, Article 13. The Law on State Administration: ‘the authorities of the State Administration shall monitor and determine the situation in the areas of their work, study the consequences of the established situation and, depending on the jurisdiction or take their own steps or propose to the Government, the adoption of the rules and the taking of measures to which it is authorised’. Third job of the state administration, which is the most complex: "execution of laws, other regulations and general acts". In Article 15. Mr. Seselj's law on state administration has been explored, he says – what instructions to write the Ministry of European Integration. He says: “Ministers and special organizations adopt regulations, orders, and instructions. ” The instructions shall be a general legal act of the Authority of the State Administration which determines the way in which the authorities of the State Administration and public authority holders enforce certain provisions of the law or other regulation. Rules, orders and instructions are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". As soon as something is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" means it is a regulation, because the rubrum above Article 15 reads: "The regulations adopted by the authorities of the state administration" and there are rules, orders and instructions. So from a legal point of view, there's nothing to argue about here. Then, the fourth job of the state administration is inspection surveillance. The fifth job of the state administration is taking care of public services. The sixth job is development work. Seven, it's that resident group of government affairs, writes – other professional affairs. "The public administrations collect and study data in the areas of their work, make up analyses, reports, information. “ Mr. Seselj wondered what he had to inform. So they have the law to inform. "The reports, information and other materials and carry out other professional tasks which contribute to the development of the area from its work. “ Why did I quote this? Because Article 13a, which talks about the European Integration Ministry, is absolutely in line with the provisions of the State Administration Act. So there are also professional jobs, there are also obligations of the ministry, not only for European integration, but for all ministries, to collect and to place these information both to other authorities and state administrations and to citizens and ministries can bring instructions and to monitor the situation in certain areas. There's been some kind of investigation of what's been going on here, what's been monitoring the situation. So it says the State Administration Act. Here, I admit that I'm stupid, and I admit that Professor Milko was wrong and that my doctorate is no good, I admit it all, but let us stupid people have the right to notice something. I learned one thing at the Faculty of Law – you cannot interpret one law separately from other laws that rely on that law. Now you pull out a member of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Ministry and then you do an anatomy of that member, so how can he, so how can she, and you don't say that there's one roof law over the Ministry Act called the Law on State Administration and which defines and which are the authorities of the state administration and which defines the affairs of the state administration. Whether or not you like this law, it is something else, but there is a law and it describes in detail what tasks the state administrations perform in the Republic of Serbia, so, the ministries, the authorities in their composition and special organisations. It's legitimate to be against the European Union, it's legitimate, I understand. It is legitimate to build a policy that you are against the European Union, it is politically legitimate, but you have no legal argument against the Ministry of European Integration because we have now shown you that everything that is in the works of the Ministry of European Integration stems not from my will, not from the will of any SNS MP, but from the Law on State Administration. There's something called a system interpretation of regulations. Not that you can't interpret one member for yourself, but you can't interpret a single law if you want to get a good interpretation to interpret it without relying on other laws, and you've ripped out one member because you're allegedly against the EU. Well, how can he, so how can she? It can be nice, because the State Administration Act, which was adopted in 2005, sets out what the public administration's affairs are. So here's the thing completely clear. Your political argument is fine, you are against the EU, I understand it, but what I don't understand is that you don't know the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and you don't know that before this law has been passed and there's still a law on state administration that defines what the authorities of the state administration are and what those authorities are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17412	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17413	Mr. Martinovic personally spoke against this Law on State Administration at a time when he was current, and now he is the enforcer of the law, he has not thought to change it or adapt it or so. Instructions can be a general legal act, but which instructions can be given by such a ministry and to whom these instructions can be given. This ministry can gather Peru, Djoku, Simu, Milancet and four more, five of them, and so many secretaries and so many drivers and they sit down and say, we are the ministry. There's no state administration under this, and there's not a single general administrative act to bring. They don't have the capacity, as Jojic says. Where is it? It's empty, there's no meat. This would now serve as a substitute for all ministries, and if the government only works on EU integration and all ministries to serve this, it cannot otherwise. You can form a project inspection, but without sending that inspection to someone else's resort. What is your speciality besides other ministries so that you can give these instructions, mandatory instructions or bring other general legal acts? Where would you give individual solutions to the administrative procedure, to whom? Who would you give a solution to? Give me an answer to that particular question. Who? The solution to Perry to stop slaughtering pigs in her backyard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17414	Time. Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have now established that yet the Ministry of European Integration can issue instructions. At first it couldn't, now we see it could. (Vojislav Seselj: He can't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17416	Ambassador, you don't have a microphone right now, so no one hears what you're throwing. (Vojislav Seselj: Maja, you are as cunning as a fox. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17417	Mr. Seselj, take it easy, don't get upset. I'm stupid, I have big ears, but I'll try to explain. Here, and Mr. Mircic is Sufling you. I was good to him when I was with you. You weren't a man... Yes, you are Mr. Mircic's famous hero and you have betrayed no one. For you a man becomes a traitor when he will not listen unspeakably to every stupid thing you say and immediately become a traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17418	Ambassador, you can't express yourself like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17419	According to that logic, Maja Gojkovic also became a traitor and Vukic and half of us standing here...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17420	Okay, I'm tricky, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17421	Whoever doesn't follow orders, he becomes a stupid, traitor, ugly, like this, it doesn't matter now. (Vojislav Seselj: Maya was against you. All right, Mr. Seselj. You were first on Titus, then against Titus, but you were against Draga, and you were against Sloba, then you were against Sloba.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17422	Ambassador, speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17423	There's someone you've been to, now it's a story for another topic. Let me get back to the legal part. He asks Mr. Seselj where's the meat? I tried to explain to him that the Ministry Act prescribes the work of each individual ministry. Part of the work is a general round of jobs where ministries differ from each other. This, Mr. Seselj, where the European Integration Ministry writes, performs the tasks of the state administration relating to, so the monitoring coordination is listed, it is a detour, it is not jurisdiction. What is the jurisdiction, i.e. the regulations, of each individual ministry, or of another administration body? In a whole series of material and legal regulations that regulate certain areas of social life. There is no Ministry Act defining the jurisdiction of each individual ministry. What we're talking about is a detour, and the authority to issue a building permit is on the case of the Law on Planning and Construction, where there's the jurisdiction of the Resoring Ministry to issue an arms list in the Law of Weapons and Ammunition. So you have a dozen laws that regulate different areas of social life. These are the so-called material-legislative regulations which say – for the adoption of the permit and for the adoption of a solution of both the so-called administrative act, the ministry is responsible as well. It can't be written in the Ministry Act. It didn't say that in the Ministry Act when you were the Deputy Prime Minister and it couldn't even write. It is written in material-legal regulations governing areas of social life. Of course, I understand your logic, because you are against Serbia's entry into the EU trying to banalise the law. Now they meet Pera, Mika, Dick, etc. As far as I know, European integration in the Republic of Serbia deals with serious people, people who speak foreign languages, people who are good lawyers, good economists, good politicians, people who have been in this matter for years, people that you can politically think about this or that, but people that I don't think are laymen and don't know your job. So this isn't about any Perry, Mickey, Dickie, this is about serious business that's about the state. None of us bid that. That's what I told Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, he did not bid on dates and years of EU entry. You say, you guarantee with your head we will never, maybe I can guarantee that we will never, but it's not about whether or not we will, the thing is that we are carrying out these reforms, we are doing it for ourselves, not for the EU. We want to organize our society on the inside so that what looks more like society, such as Dutch, Swedish, German, Italian, etc. I believe you have nothing against this kind of society. Whether we will enter the EU and when it is not up to you or me. A little depends on us as a country, but depends on the EU, depends on political opportunities in EU member states. That is not the point, against the European Integration Ministry itself because we will never join the EU. Maybe we will, maybe we won't. But the bottom line is that we are trying to implement such reforms that will allow our society to move forward, that our workers live better, that our pensioners live better, that farmers live better, that scientists live better, that we reform Serbia because of us not because of the EU. That is also what the ministry's task is to do everything possible to Serbia that one day, if opportunities are created to join the EU. I don't think it's gonna be the end of the world if we don't get in. It would be tragic... I understand what you're saying, Mr. Seselj, I'm just telling you the next thing, the tragedy would be for Serbia, if we didn't have an alternative to either the EU or nothing, or the Eurasian Union or nothing. You're talking about some integrations with Russia. To be honest with you, I can't understand until the end of what you're saying, the Partizan Assembly of Ostrog was when those left turns were on February 8, 1942, in Ostrog, decided that Montenegro was an integral part of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17424	Ambassador, please let us return to the topic and your historic discussions with Ambassador Seselj for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17425	What do I want to tell you? So it's funny that argument comes down to it – let's become a federal unit in the Russian Federation. Well, the Russian Federation for the Federal Unit won't want us, but it wants Serbia as one reliable partner who runs a sovereign and independent policy as a country that Russia alone in Europe, except Belarus, has not imposed economic and political sanctions. That's what Russia appreciates at Wolfie's. That's what Russia appreciates with the government of the Republic of Serbia. After all, to implement your ideas in practice, you know, it takes a little detail – that the people vote for you. You cannot create a large Serbia or introduce Serbia into Russia with four or five per cent votes. Politically, it's not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17426	This debate no longer enters into the content of the law. This is more of a debate on the government's choice and foreign policy objectives. (Vojislav Seselj: It is about jurisdiction. There's no jurisdiction. (Vojislav Seselj: So he spoke of jurisdiction. ) He spoke to you as a proposer. (Vojislav Seselj: It is not true. It is. He's the Proposer. You will be entitled to a replica if you replicate what you did not understand. [[Vojislav Seselj: Will I get the right to replica?]] As far as I was listening to Ambassador Aleksandr Martinovic, he spoke in most of his exposure that he understood what you were saying. (Vojislav Seselj: He did not understand. Don't yell. (Vojislav Seselj: You didn't understand either. I'm not even content to understand, I don't understand, but you two do. (Vojislav Seselj: Will you give me your word or not?) He can't, because you're talking to me. (Vojislav Seselj: That's why? Well, you'll remember this day. I didn't take this seriously. Don't think Ambassador Seselj seriously threatened me. We understand each other. He didn't threaten me. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17427	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministry of Parliament Club SPS I would say that they are primarily a clear confirmation of the commitment and determination of the future government of the Republic of Serbia to continue the reform processes for an even stronger, better and more efficient work in the best interests of Serbia and Serbia's citizens and in order to realise Serbia's external-political priorities. When I say the realisation of foreign policy priorities, of course, I also mean Serbia's full membership in the EU, but I also think of strengthening Serbia's traditional friendly relations with the Russian Federation and with the United States, with China and with many other countries of the world. The proposal we're talking about today I'd say it came about as a result of a real need, to make it more effective, so that the government and the ministries within the government can function more efficiently and better. First of all, the experience of the previous period, the perceived shortcomings, but also the real needs of the state, the real needs of citizens unequivocally confirm that we are going towards creating a more orderly, better and more efficient state, and that certainly is the interest of all of us. Personal solutions are important, and we don't argue. It is important that in a key position, when we talk about ministries, we choose the highest quality, which will organise a system, which will organise a system that will deliver results, but this is not the topic of today's session. Today we're talking about creating one basic, one system that will allow the future government to produce results. We believe that the results of the previous government are really a good basis for the work of the future government, the results that are visible, which are recognizable, which are evaluated in the right way, but also, on the other hand, we believe that through the amendments and additions to the laws that we are talking about today we are creating a single foundation that will be a good basis for the work of the future government, that the future government can, with success, realise the stated objectives and principles that will be defined in the exposé of mandates for the composition of the future government. By supporting this proposal that we are talking about today, we, in fact, once again want to support everything that the previous government has done and done, but also to give unequivocal support in the work of the future government and, above all, when it comes to continuing reform processes, when it comes to modernisation, change, when it comes to investment, development and growth. On the other hand, this proposal has one predictability, we have one continuity, we have one stability. So we choose the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there are no spectacular and drastic changes when we talk about both the number of ministries and the structure and the organisation. For us, it is essential that a well-organised and well-designed organisation and structure of ministries within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will rationally, quality and efficiently respond to what is the essence, and these are the needs of the state and the needs of citizens. Exactly, considering this bill from that aspect, therefore, it is fully justified, it is necessary because, firstly, it also highlights the needs of the state and the needs of Serbian citizens. We believe that the proposed concept of work and organisation of ministries within the Government of the Republic of Serbia with a good base in 2012 and with what we are doing and doing today, so we are creating a good optimal model, which can and should be applicable to some future governments and we fully agree, not that, when choosing a new government, we have a new concept and that we are adapting it to the current political moment and that we are adapting it to coalition agreements. In this way we will show, and we show, that we are both serious, and responsible and stable state that has continuity and that does not define its policy from today to tomorrow. It is certain that this is the law most amended in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and when I say so, I don't think I've said anything new. It is because we do not have a systemic approach to address this issue and we do not have an optimal model which is the number of ministries and what kind of government is needed and what number of ministries are needed to function. We do not, there are no European standards either, but each country defines a number of ministries according to its needs, defines jobs, defines competences. We advocate a system approach and I already said – we have a good model from 2012. In addition to the changes and additions that we are talking about today, we believe that we are reaching a functional and sustainable model, which can produce results and which should be applicable even when it comes to future governments. Each parliamentary group, of course, will make its views, suggestions, proposals, it is perfectly legitimate and we respect it, but it is very important that we do not view this proposal as a political declaration, because it is not the result of political trade and political agreements, but as a result of the real need, I repeat, in order to have a more efficient and better regulated state, so that the ministries within the government can function better and more effectively, experience from the previous period, observed shortcomings, but, of course, in the first place the needs of the state and citizens. It is very important that we not only look at this proposal through personal solutions and through the number of ministries. Personal solutions are important, but they're not the subject of today's session, I've already said that. When it comes to the number of ministries, well, hypothetically, the government can function with five or six ministries, but it is important that we know what we want and what kind of Serbia we want and if that is a key problem, the number of ministries, then I am fully convinced that we have a very high-quality legislative proposal. For us, the number of ministries, for the SPS parliamentary club, is a far more important structure, organisations, responsibility, seriousness, quality and efficiency in the work of ministries within the government of the Republic of Serbia. Essential remarks in terms of jobs, competencies, ministry organisations are and depend exclusively on which positions you look at the system of government, whether you are government or opposition, and that is somewhere completely possible to be understandable. On the other hand, when it comes to the environment and environmental protection, it is true that in the 1990s this was a special ministry, it is also true that during the period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, there was the Ministry of Environment and that we had not had a separate Ministry of Environmental Protection since 2000, but it was a part of this area, it was part of another ministry. It is also true that good results have been achieved in the field of environmental protection while this ministry has been part of the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Development and while it has been, and today it is part of the Ministry of Agriculture. The data suggests that good results have been achieved when it comes to improving environmental protection, but on the other hand, potentials are high. To take advantage of these potentials in full capacity, it is important that we have a special ministry. This is very complex, this is a very complex and demanding subject and requires high standards, and also, this is a topic that concerns all of us. I think that by forming a special ministry of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the future Government of the Republic of Serbia shows that in a responsible, serious and dedicated way to deal with this area in order to increase the efficiency of environmental protection, but also to increase the negotiating positions on the path of European integration, since it is generally known that when we talk about harmonising legislation and harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation and regulations, one third of the lists I think specifically refer to environmental protection, that Chapter 27 is specifically concerned with environmental protection and that it is very important to use EU funds in the right way, because some data say that in the next period Serbia, in order to properly improve and protect the environment, it is necessary to invest around $10. At the very end, considering all the reasons I have already said, the SPS parliamentary club in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17428	The People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic has the word, as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17429	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to use the first few seconds of exposure to first congratulate the citizens of Serbia on that truly remarkable, brilliant, impressive gathering we had in our capital yesterday, on the magnificent inauguration of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, the opportunity to see the real world in our country, therefore, and representatives of the Russian Federation, and the United States, the People's Republic of China, statesmen from the region, but also from Europe and Asia and Africa. It was truly a pride to be a citizen of this country, to be a member of this people on yesterday. Congratulations, everyone. As for the law we are discussing today, of course the SNS and our MP group fully support the bill. We also supported our signatures and suggested that we meet today and discuss this very proposal drawn up. The proposal implies changing the shape structure through the introduction of two new ministries. We support this proposal, this part of the proposal, as we support these others, but also important things that we do not need to be distracted from the mind, that as far as the work is concerned, this is what we have talked about today, some ministries, there is a need to be in the process of laws that we have adopted ourselves in the meantime, and to be in progress with good practice and good standards that apply in the world that we look up to. As for the proposal to form a new ministry that will deal specifically with environmental protection and the ministry that will deal with European integration issues, one and the other is extremely important. I can only agree with the assessment that it is absolutely in line with our country's real needs right now. In the explanation that you have received, ladies and gentlemen, it says here among other things that the question of a qualitative implementation of the European integration process in the period ahead is one of the main motives for this proposal. The fact is that there is a lot of work ahead of us and the fact is that the accompanying consequences, so let's say that the farm portfolio will now function in a separate ministry that will deal only with this segment or only with that resolution, that it is indeed a way to bring this job out, and that it does have a real job to deal with. In that sense, I fully agree, of course, with everything that has been said today by an authorised promoter. On the other hand, the protection of the environment, in particular in the context of these issues that we are mostly talking about today, which are issues of European integration, is not bad because of the public who follows this, only a few things that should be kept in mind. First, although it is more or less offensive that on this issue, therefore, environmental protection, Serbia is not very good when it comes to integration, in fact, the Republic of Serbia is the only candidate country from the region that has been invited to submit a negotiating position without prior conditions. It is thought of the position in the chapter in question, in Chapter 27, which deals with the protection of the environment. The conclusion of the screening is that we, as far as our regulatory concerns are concerned, are not at all bad, that we are already very well in line with those materials that we want to achieve fully. However, law enforcement is in the early stages. There's a lot of work ahead of us, strategic work, which is also concluded in the screening results, and that we need to have stronger administrative capacities. What is being apostropheeded in several places, that jurisdiction is adequately harmonised, that we also have capacities at the institutional level tailored to the needs of this job. So all of this leads to the conclusion that we have a job, dynamic work and a proposal for this work to be realised through the private ministries in this sense has full logic, and therefore our full support. Money will be an interesting question. It's certain he'll need it. The truth is, we don't have any large resources dedicated to these purposes and this resort. It is certain that much will cost the work ahead of us until not only the opening, but also the successful closing of these chapters, or chapter, to the successful achievement of all standards. That's why the money is, I'll agree with all the comments in that direction given today, a very important and sensitive question. Introducing such a structure, among other things, we will also deal with those strategic affairs, including specific plans. The idea is that, through the revision of these specific plans, we also influence the total amount of funds that will be needed. Furthermore, there is a good, realistic basis that we expect infrastructure jobs, projects in this area, although funding is not at an enviable level. An additional space is being opened through a new way of regulating the so-called. Eko tax. New funding, namely new potential for these infrastructure projects, should also be implemented and realised through appropriate administrative and institutional potential or capacity, which means the ministry again. Again, more work in the period ahead of us. In order for us to deliver a negotiating position in time, we need to first resolve that institutional level. The answer is the Ministry. When we open up, so, after the position, this chapter should be closed, then a job of over 700 different regulations that should be harmonised, so, not by law, the laws are already pretty good, but everything else, and it also requires adequate capacity. At the very end, but not least, to return to those funds, and for EU funds should be applied and this is a very good potential in this area and it could also work properly. When it comes to the ministry that will deal with the issue and affairs of European integration, it has here some different messages and tones. I think that about this first one, in terms of environmental protection, we all agreed that it was a good proposal and that it was really necessary. Around this second, there were some opposite ideas, to call it that. Of course, out of that total, as far as I can see, two advertisings, one goes right into the account of those who said so, and anything else for the simple reason that they don't understand and for the simple reason that lack of knowledge is not an exception even when it comes to this area. In those others, again, we heard it because we could hear anything else, too, but from a different motive. Thus, it is not in the middle of a specific lack of knowledge, but in the middle it is complete indifference. That's what we've heard from those who could say anything in this world only if it's ordered. This is evidence of the fact that in 2008, it seems to me that they have applauded the sentence that they want to be an equal partner in the EU, without being conditional on KIM in Serbia, etc., and today, as one mentions, they are jumping to the ceiling. It's proof that they can also say that and not on any subject, without any difference. As for the work that awaits us here, we have good results, and it's recorded, recorded, black on white, among other things, through these chapters that we talked about today, 10 open, two temporarily closed. To add to the list, and yet, it seems to me, three at this point that, on our part, Serbia is fully prepared and only waiting for the proper consent of our partners from the EU, and we can open that up and we can start that job, as we did with the previous 10. A big job, once again, and that it is a business that is certain to speak and recent statements by Mrs Mogerini and Mr Han that improving the dynamics on integration is waiting for our entire region, including Serbia, which is also my transition to answers or comments to the issues asked today, as the question of what our perspective is and what we know about this perspective. The answer is precisely this and it comes from officials representing the European community. Advanced dynamics are expected, more work is expected, and for us, of course, more good results. About these results, since that was the question today, don't worry, there's someone to look after. There's someone who's getting old, among other things, because we've already done a good job, so that says enough for himself, those ten chapters haven't fallen from the sky. Someone, for God's sake, made sure we did a good job, so good that no one in the world can challenge it. On the subject of intellectual, professional, etc., capacity, it seemed to me, a total of two comments in this direction today. Here is an opinion that does not come from us who may be political opponents to those who have said so, and this opinion has been given on the subject again proven, Serbia's ability to absorb funds right from European funds, based on Serbia's very professional approach in this direction. The comment is – we today, so obviously in the desire to make a difference compared to what we once did, for example. By 2012, we today have a slightly better intellectual structure for project preparation, etc. This is said by an expert, a professor of economics, and this is also said by the president of the European Movement in Serbia, so if, for those critics, this opinion means something, I believe, since it comes from the address it comes from. As far as these funds are concerned, then, the question once again, is serious. We can continue today in this principle debate and on Monday when we talk in particular about moving on to something broader, but to stick to the subject, so it is not disputed to talk about ideas for "Berlin Plus" and the possibilities to better define exactly what we are going to do in these sectors, but all of these, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be completely open and honest, good and useful things for this country. Good and useful because they're at the benefit of our citizens. In that sense, and I would like it to be the most important message today, and I once again underline what the authorised proposer has already said here, these are things that are a real need for Serbia, these are things that bring something useful, and in terms of quality of life in the broadest context, in terms of good practice, good administration, good administration, good country, for our citizens. This is something that we do because it benefits us, benefits our people, this is something that we do for our own good, and how it's going to be formally crowned by some membership for a year, or something sooner or later, it's this kind of formality that stays at the end. The benefit that we provide with a good relationship, a serious approach and good results is lasting and it is our main goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17430	We're moving on to the list. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17431	Discussing today about the Ministry Act, which is the basis for forming a government, I expect two things. The first thing is to create conditions for even greater work, for an even greater momentum in the initial reforms, and the second is that the two new ministries should give exactly the momentum needed by European integration. I think it is very important to say that Serbia is the first country in the process of European integration to have the opportunity to open Chapter 27 without additional conditions. We have a big job ahead of us, a lot of projects that need to be implemented and what is crucial to me, when it comes to the formation of this ministry, is that local self-governments need to form bodies to protect the environment, for environmental science, in order for the future resolution ministry to do what is expected of it. For the European Integration Ministry, it is very important that it unites all existing structures in the area of Serbia's European integration and will co-ordinate all other ministries in this area. By the very fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to the ministry without portfolios for European integration, I think that this sends a strong and, above all, one honest message to European partners how important the European integration process is for Serbia. Also, during today's debate, comments could be made that we have already changed the Ministry Act for the fourth time. It's not a particular problem for me. In practice, no law is the Holy Scriptures. If irregularities are observed in practice, if there is a need to amend a law, it is normal to propose its amendment or supplementation or, as in this case, the need to create two new ministries. I would also like to give an example in the practice that has proved to us that the separation of the ministries in the previous law has produced good results. For example, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government dealt with regional development. The Ministry Act we separated these two things, so regional development dealt with the economy and infrastructure, and the state administration and local self-government dealt with the accumulated administration, the efficiency of the E-Government. I think it was one of the good moves to separate certain ministries. Also, I would like to point out one example from the neighbourhood, from the region, Croatia, when in a certain process of European integration, the need for the creation of a new ministry – the Ministry of Enterprise and crafts – was seen in this country. For me, it's a very important ministry, and I think it's also very important that we have taken certain steps in this area that are very important in the past. I mean, many of the subsidies the government has taken in this area, but above all, in the fact that we have introduced an object of entrepreneurship from the earliest age, which is not basic, but has a great impact on the awareness of our young people to turn increasingly in the future towards this area. The discussion of the Ministry Act is a first step, a very important step. In a few days we will hear the exposés of Prime Minister Brnabic and we will have a round-up continent which for me represents a contract with citizens based on the legitimacy we received both in the previous elections and in the presidential elections. I would say that after decades of democratic development in Serbia, for the first time, citizens and the state are placed in focus, and in the second is a political context. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17432	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17433	There is no doubt that I will vote against this bill, as well as my colleagues from our parliamentary group. Thank you for your congratulations, for forming a parliamentary group. This is the continuation of the farce, of course, there is no reflection in this bill, not only because of the proposings, I am not going to attack him, but because it was done because of the settlement of needs, because of the creation of the majority for the vote of the new government, so everyone asked for something that was missing, someone asked for a chair, someone asked for money, someone asked for a palm tree, or whatever, and as a result of that, the bill Is it possible that only a year ago, Aleksandar Vukic himself, did not remember that Serbia needed a ministry to protect the environment and the ministry for European integration, but, as a result, now remembers Mr Martinovic? Is it possible that the Wolf himself forgot that? I'm sure in those six, seven hours of exposure, he had to remember that it was necessary for Serbia. Of course we need to worry about the environment, of course we need to worry about everything that's important for Serbia, of course we also need care about European integration, but this is not done by packing the ministries for five days before the new government's election, so that everyone is calm, fed up. And nothing started yesterday, nothing began five years ago, when the new coalition formed, a condition for European integration and a condition for a healthy environment in every sense of the word was set in Serbia on 5 October 2000. You can whine about that date as much as you want, only people who don't love the country speak ill of that date. In the New Party programme, of course there have been four years, and a solution to what the Serbian government should look like. Our proposal was then and will be achieved when there is intelligence in this Parliament, more than there are today, ten members of the government, prime minister, of course, Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, Ministry of Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, environment and spatial planning, Ministry of Energy, Transport and Telecommunications, Ministry of Health and Social Policy and Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. That's enough. These powers, which are called ministries, are concentrated in the experience and, of course, the state-law theory, that one ministry is making a final and irrevocable decision on one subject, not that, as we now have, that we need for whatever we need in life, we need three ministries, two inspections, five local some institutions. That's not how a serious country does it. If you wanted to make one serious law, you should have asked serious people to tell you. I was at your service, but it didn't occur to you. I also fully understand the idea of people that the Ministry of Environmental Protection should be special and there is such experience, but there are experiences that prove that the extraction of environmental protection from practically all other segments of life, that it is not good and that it creates, not co-government, but the inability to carry out the right protection and prevention of a healthy environment. If agriculture is concerned, there are pollutions of the largest potential, construction also, industry too. That's the way to look at it. As for Eurointegration, it's a farce, of course, like that inauguration that was yesterday, with 5,000 people present. There's a wedding there in eastern Serbia with about 2,000 or 3,000, so it wasn't exactly the biggest rally, but I'm not going to talk about it. It was an inauguration for ten, fifteen people from the world, as far as I can tell from the photos, there were singers, guides, speaker girls, some...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17434	Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17435	... Everyone's talking about inauguration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17436	Not that, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17437	... The singers are women who sing and live on it. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17438	The singers, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17439	Some call it different. The Serbian language is rich, but it's not a topic. The theme is that Serbia needs to stop with the farces, that we don't need circus plays, whether in SIV, whether here or anywhere, but that we need a serious government with serious problems, which this country has, to fight in a serious way. We are the country with the smallest GDP growth in the region for five years. We are one of the most in charge of states with the potential to repay debts in Europe. We are a country where every year, in the last five, six years, especially in 40,000, 50,000 young educated people leave, not by chance, not just because of the global crisis and the domestic economic crisis, but because you are forcing them, so that diplomats can come to the places of these serious, smart people who have to flee this country. These are the problems of Serbia, not who will worship whom and who comes to pink, and who will go to a celebration in pink. That's the problem. Solve through the protection of the Vinch environment, which burns today. Solve the pollution of media space, resolve that journalists are not afraid of your beatings when they are doing their job on the streets of Belgrade. Get rid of these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17440	Time, MP. I'd like to ask you not to yell at the MPs. That's what I'd like to ask you. I also ask the MPs to talk about the bill, as much as their capacity allows. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17441	On the subject of these completely pointless remarks, the type of farce is not inauguration, and who was there, etc. He was Dmitri Rogozin, Russian Deputy Prime Minister, Gji Bingsüen, Vice-President of the Svekine National Congress, was Borut Pahor, President of Slovenia, Emanuel Ngonda, Prime Minister of Gabon, Kolinda Grabar, President of Croatia, Viktor Alban, Prime Minister of Hungary, Johannes Han, from the EU, members of the BiH presidency, Filip Vujanovic, Montenegrin President, Christian Kern, Prime Minister of Austria, Brian Hoyt Ji, personal representative of Donald Trump, etc. etc. and many others. Insulting these people, together with representatives of Parliament club candidate Sasa Jankovic, show their attitude towards their country, but also towards these people. By saying that these people, as they say in general, are singers and starlets, these people show that they don't really like their own country when they're already commenting on it. Of course, those who are the same as their country, their own country, muddying and insinuating at every opportunity, who speak of it all the worst, are to catch a political tsar for themselves. There is nothing better to expect, but when something like this happens, it should always be said, loudly and clearly, who does it and what it does, and it seems by the reputation of the manners received by their Sasha Jankovic, who never knew better than that, so it goes through the elections as it goes. Just a million-and-a-half, and someone else over, votes less than Alexander Wolf, for now. It's going to make a difference, and it's going to be bigger. Don't be afraid of anything. Speaking of drinks, it's gonna be like everything we heard earlier, actually, because of the fact that they rallyers, Protestants, like to drink beer in broad daylight. Yesterday was a particularly warm day, so it's going to be a warm beer yesterday at 6:00, and it hit some people's heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17442	Have you been to the demonstrations? (Zoran Zivkovic: Yes, I was. Didn't you drink beer? (Zoran Zivkovic: That's what I'm going to say.) Did you drink anything today? How can you not be ashamed? That blinking doesn't mean anything, it never meant anything to you. I'm asking you, why don't you run the session properly? This, uh, I don't know what his name is, you're letting him insult half the nation? ) Warning. When there's half a nation, then I'll give him a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic: A reminder to me? Yes. Yeah. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic: Please give me your word.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Zoran Zivkovic: Ma'am, your blinking might be nice somewhere else, and I want to get a replica, because I'm directly mentioned. No, your name is not mentioned. The name Saša Jankovica is mentioned I don't know how to communicate like this. [[Zoran Zivkovic: To whom replica?]] (Zoran Zivkovic: You don't know, of course, that's what I'm saying. All right. You have one more warning, because I won't take offense for sure. (Zoran Zivkovic: Thank you, congratulations. Do you have another warning to give me? You remember what you said about me. (Zoran Zivkovic: Everything I said stands.) You have another warning. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Thank you. ) Have you confirmed to the citizens of Serbia that you are behind the insults you have said, not only to me, but to all women who are involved in politics. (Zoran Zivkovic: Which one? Vladimir Djukanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17443	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't know what kind of hard work this is when we were having a good discussion. I have to find out that poor country where the Prime Minister calls foreign delegations the starlets, vampires and the worst and ugliest names, that's how he led the government, and you, Serbian citizens, well imagine why we came here. When the Ministry Act is changed, it always leads to big poles, whether or not a ministry is needed, but, you know, when it comes to you as an observation that you have a lot of ministries by those who led the government you had, believe it or not, eight vice-presidential seats...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17444	Ambassador Djukanovic, I ask you to be a little tolerant, so I can explain to Ambassador Zivkovic what happened to him. So, by Article 110. (Zoran Zivkovic: What happened to you? I'm perfectly healthy, don't worry about anything. I had a little flu yesterday, but it's okay. So, you've been taken from your word, so don't yell, so don't be so far away from the session. Here you go, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17445	So, we've had objections here to this law by the man who led the government who had, believe it or not, 25 seats, of which eight vice presidents. Every member of the DOS coalition had to get caught up and be somewhere, so they invented a vice presidential seat for anything, just to be in that government, to get paid and to get everyone settled down. Then you had an incredible situation, say, about the economy. You had Djelic as Minister of Economy and Economy, I think that's what it was called, so you had Vlahovic in charge of the same economy, but privatisation, economy and privatisation, and then you had Pitic in charge of economic relations with abroad. It's really not normal. You have at least today as far as the economics sphere is concerned, a single ministry, which deals with economy and economy. They had three ministries, and today they're complaining to someone. But why am I saying all this? First of all, I like to read the exposés of the former prime ministers and take it off nicely. I have an amazing situation here. A shorttime speaker who, unfortunately, was our prime minister, told us, among other things, about the donations that came to the country: "In this year, about 800m euros of donations are expected" – we are talking about 2003, and in 2001 and 2002, that amount was one billion and four hundred million euros only the donations they received and say that everything was spent. What's it spent on? They say -- to the energy sector, 304m euros. Do you, the entire public, ask everyone here, do you know one single investment in our energy sector from 2000 to 2012? Not a single minefield, a power plant, whatever they did, and 300-400m euros of donations were spent in 2001 and 2002. That tells us in the exposé of a man who left this room a little while ago. They further say -- they gave 73m euros for the development of civil society. They're talking about kindergartens today, and I don't know what. People have spent 73m euros in donations to give to various NGOs. With a billion and 400m euros in donation alone, they could build whatever they wanted in this country, and they spent all that money, people. In doing so, they polluted the country to the worst collapse, as he also spoke at his exposé at that time about how many companies are being privatised, and said that in 2001 and 2002 alone, more than 500 companies were privatising. All these privatisations are completely ruined. That's what he wrote in that exposé he was putting out here at the time. They're objecting to something to the current government today for what costs! That the citizens of Serbia know that well. Since I heard a pointless remark here today, that Mrs. Brnabic did not know how many people there were in local self-government, we did not know by 2014, how many people we worked in the public sector at all, because nobody was interested in it. Only then did Lazar Krstic seem to me, as finance minister, complete a list of how many people we work in the public sector and I think the figure was about 800 and a few thousand people in total, when you take all the local self-governments. Dear citizens of Serbia, you now wonder what the state looked like to us. And as their government otherwise functioned, the same exposé says, I must quote what the Prime Minister of Justice said at the time: "We also expect this assembly to adopt the amendments to judicial laws as soon as possible, which will allow the judiciary to leave compromised and corrupt personnel who have obstructed the state's efforts to deal with crime for the past two years." This is not just about justice, not about revenge, but about the clear state of affairs. So you had a prime minister who suggested he'd be replacing judges and prosecutors. And they're talking about some kind of democratic order today! Those who introduced “Sablja ” here! Yes, you heard very well, dear citizens of Serbia, the man announced that he would clean up judges and prosecutors. And imagine when Wolf would say that today? Or did Mrs. Brnabic say that in her exposé? You'd hang us, we'd hang here in the Terrace.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17446	Ambassador, please, just get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17447	As far as the ministries themselves are concerned, by the way, when I'm talking about the environment, and here's a huge number that only the donations spent on the environment and didn't do anything. Why didn't they take down that Vinci because they're nagging us about Vinci today? Why would they allow such a waste? Today someone's doing it and trying to take care of it. They had a chance, 12 years, to get us both Vinci and a lot of work done. I agree there should be an environment ministry and environmental protection. I didn't understand why it wasn't formed when the government passed? It was necessary back then, because the Ministry of Agriculture simply cannot deal with this topic, because the Ministry of Agriculture deals with the development of our agrarian, above all, agriculture and subsidies and many other things. So this is a very important topic, where European funds single out huge funds for this topic and deal with it, even chapters open exclusively to such a thing. As far as the European Integration Ministry is concerned, I must admit that I am not someone who is competent or particularly interested in this subject, but I see that we are doing very well and I see that we are progressing towards this European path. Whether or not we are going to enter the European Union, it is really not a topic right now, nor is it up to us. It depends on many political opportunities, but it should be provided to the ministry to do the best it can and I believe that Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic will do the best possible job. I only ask those who complain to us today to remember what they announced in their exposés, how they destroyed the country, once again, dear citizens, to hear. In the exposé of the former prime minister, we heard that only by 2003 were 500 of our companies privatized that had all gone to waste. They're all destroyed, it's only until that year. Therefore, those who have destroyed our economy, who have destroyed this country's economic system, who have otherwise allowed this so-called. The foreign capital that is now so disgusted, that has allowed him to harass here and completely buy all our businesses, well, these people are complaining to you today, these people are taking some guys down the street to insult the MPs, they're coming here to us in front of the Parliament. Just keep them going. They're the ones who call European and world officials people who came to the farm yesterday, insult themselves, because if anyone really thinks Vladimir Putin or Donald Trump had no idea where he was sending his delegation, then you're making an ugly mistake and demeaning those states and their leader. And that's what's sad. In any case, I call on all SNS deputies and, of course, everyone else in the ruling coalition, including the opposition, to support the draft ministry law. In voting day, of course, I will certainly, like all my other colleagues, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17448	Thank you. The word is Nenad Constantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17449	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing an important law that needs to establish the responsibilities of different ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we are discussing this law by emergency procedure, at the last minute, I would say back-to-back, because the SNS is unable to do anything at all in time. So because of your slowness, we are discussing today, on Saturday, and by emergency procedure, and it is likely that the opposition MPs will not be able to read the law and fail to correct what you have wrongly proposed by this law. The government of the Republic of Serbia practically fell on 31 May. It's been almost a month since, and you can't form a new government for a month. Did you see the government formed in France in two or three days? Why do we have to wait 25 days to form a government? I think there's two reasons. The first reason is because the SNS does not have a majority, has 102 MPs, and most need 126, and because it had to approach political, or party trade with its coalition partners. Without the SPS, you can't form a government, and apparently the SPS has asked for different concessions to vote for the new government. So you tried to frame all of us in this law something that the proposer didn't talk about when he represented this law, which is to change the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy in favour of the Ministry of Energy and Mining. What does that mean? This means that power over the appointment and resolution of management personnel in the EPS and "Srbigas" now belongs to the Ministry of Energy led by Mr Antic, vice-president of the SPS, and so far it has been in the Ministry of Economy led by a SNS person. So let the SPS deal with the resolution and appointment of people in the EPS and the "Serbiagas". Not only did you tear it up with the SPS, we'll see next week how many SPS will get more ministries because you don't have most of them without them and we'll see how many ministers there will be without portfolios. I will remind you, in 2010, Aleksandar Vucic was saying that the SNS would propose to the government with 12 ministries. In 2012, you said you were going to propose to the government with 12 ministries. In 2014, the Council adopted Vukic, as prime minister, boasted that it was the smallest government to have 16 ministries. Now you're increasing the number by two. What has changed in your heads, and does that mean that what you say doesn't bind you in any way? Why now 18 ministries? Why are you increasing the number of ministries and thus increasing costs on the burden of citizens of Serbia, the same citizens whom you have reduced pensions and salaries? I think it's hypocritical and I think it's immoral. If we're going to cut pensions and pay citizens, then let the government show that something's been denied. Don't increase your costs, it's irresponsible politics. Therefore, the SPS will manage energy, i.e. EPS and "Srbigas" and propose people. But what's much more important than trying to frame us all and not talking about it is that you've ruled out the possibility that the government of the Republic of Serbia is overseeing the work of public enterprises dealing with energy, i.e. the EPS and the "Serbigas". You just happened to forget that when you changed competences, you wrote that the Ministry of Energy had the right to control and to exercise control over public enterprises dealing with production and supply and electricity and gas. So the EPS and "Serbigas" will not be controlled more than the government of the Republic of Serbia that founded them, there is no control by the government that is the founder, but will oversee them by a party that was joined by EPS and "Srbigas". Bajatovic, as director, answers his party, as a SNS official corresponds to his president, who is also the president of the state. So, from now on, it's just a party court. Let me tell you, this has never been and has never been anywhere. The Republic of Serbia cannot establish public enterprises without the government having the right to control and control these public enterprises. All of this is covered by a story about whether it should be the European Integration Ministry or not should be the European Integration Ministry. She's been without a portfolio so far, she's been doing it, and my colleagues have already explained that this is going to be ineffective, as you suggested. Second, you suggest judicial professions to oversee judicial professions by the Ministry of Justice. Does law enforcement belong to a lawyer? The notion of a judicial profession does not exist in any single law. You can't see who's in the Justice Department's website. This is an attempt by the executive authority to control the law as an independent profession. That's why you wrote in this law that the Justice Department is working to perfect judicial professions. For these reasons, we cannot vote for such a law and the Social Democratic Party will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17450	You've spent your time with your MPs. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, so Nejo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward as a legislator. Of course, what Mr. Konstantinovic is saying is the most common political nonsense. Anyone who has read the bill could see very clearly that the Ministry of Economy is only changing that the Ministry of Mining and Energy is taking over the work relating to preparation, but, please, take care of the preparation of the proposal for acts on the designation and resolution of the managing authority, as well as other acts relating to the business of public enterprises and companies carrying out the production and supply of electricity, i.e. natural gas. So he is working to prepare an act proposal, and acts are brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the founder. That's one thing. Another thing, when, Mr. Konstantinovicu, the Ministry Act was regulated which powers the Government of the Republic of Serbia has in relation to public enterprises, which it does not have? It never was. It's regulated by some other laws, not the Ministry Act. It wasn't regulated by the Ministry Act when you ran this country and you know it very well, but in the absence of argument let's say anything that we think can benefit us. Here, I'll tell you now, and I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for using my cell phone, there's my data. You're talking about how Vucic promised this or that, the number of ministries, etc. The government of Zoran Djindjic had 28 members. The government of Zoran Zivkovic, the one who has now lectured us about how he advocates that the government has 10 ministers, the Zivkovic government had 25 members of the government. Kostunica's first government had 22 members. The second Kostunica government, DS-DSS, had 25 members. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic had 33 members. The first government of Aleksandar Vukic had 19 members, the second Government of Vucic 20 members, and now this government, which will be formed, will have 18 ministers. So, let's now wonder how it was, it was great, it was democratic when we had 33 ministers and it wasn't a coup on the state budget, it didn't cost any citizens of Serbia, and now that we have 18 ministers, it's going to be a terrible blow to public finances and to our budget. It's just nonsense. There's something much more important about it. Those who dive crocodile tears over the fate of Serbian citizens and who talk every day - you stole salaries, you stole pensions, you stole salaries, you stole pensions, the only one who stole pensions in this country, so that's you who ruled Serbia until 2012. If you hadn't stolen, if you hadn't sold out everything that could have been sold out in Serbia, it wouldn't have been for the government run by Aleksandar Vukic to come into a position that had to cut one part of the pensions and one part of the salaries in the public sector, but that you stole everything alive that could have been stolen. You're talking about protecting the environment. I hope you remember who your environmental minister was. They say that we should have experts, that people who know the area they're going to operate, etc. are elected ministers. These geniuses represented by Nenad Konstantinovic chose a man who was orthopedic, the action was called "Let's Clean Serbia". And they really cleaned it up. But they really cleaned it up, so the stone on the rock in the state budget didn't stay. In 2010, this is just one example, and such examples can give you a siacet, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, when the minister was Oliver Dulic, paid the company "New Juz Vol" 500,000 euros, please listen to me well, that two weeks, it means 14 days, stands "Let's Clean Serbia" on the building on the corner of Brankova and Pop Luka Street. So to stand a billboard on a building in Belgrade, that cost, imagine, 500,000 euros in 14 days. That's not all. The action was conducted on the territory of all Serbia, from Saturday to Vranj. So imagine how many millions and millions and hundreds of millions of euros ended up in the private pockets of various Dulic, Tadic, Konstantinovic and all those who ruled Serbia. Now they tell us the same thing – hey, you took wages and pensions. Well, you took salaries and pensions. Ama, you took everything that could be taken, and we are now trying to put Serbia on healthy feet, that there is no Oliver Dulic who will pay for a billboard that will cost 14 days 500,000 euros. Such a Dulic in the government of Aleksandra Vukic and in the future government of Ana Brnabic you will not be able to find. They don't exist. They existed until 2012. You have one problem, which you think everyone who's in power is doing the same thing that you've been doing and that everyone who's in power is trading. I tell you now, we do not trade with anyone. The Serbian Progressive Party, that is, the election list Aleksandar Vukic – "Serbia Wins" currently has 129 votes and there is no need for us to trade with anyone, with the SPS or with Unique Serbia. Did Palma say he didn't want to vote, did he? He said. Anybody mention him today? We don't care if he votes or won't vote. The Serbian Progressive Party has the majority to elect the government. We don't need any political trade. The SPS is our political partner, we want to deepen relations with the SPS, but I don't even know who's going to be the Minister of Economy, as I don't know who's going to be Minister of Mining and Energy. What you were trading in your time, that time you forgot, that time was over. Serbian citizens are sending you one and the same message from the elections – we will not return at the time of Boris Tadic, we will not return at the time of Mirko Cvetkovic, we will not return at the time of Dragan Sutanovac, we will not return at that time. It was the time of the robbery, it was the time of the kidnapping, it was the time of the collapse of every healthy component in the Serbian economy. For months, I've listened, even for years, how you've reportedly been crying over the fate of Serbian farmers. He says he'll take some land from us. So do you know whose time thousands and thousands of acres of the most fertile duchy land were sold? At a time when you ruled Serbia - 2001, 2002, 2003. Then we sold to the Croatians "Diamant", "Soko stork", "Grand Coffee". That's when it left Serbia. We're more interested in selling something now, so tell me what to sell. You sold everything. There's nothing more to sell. We don't want to sell anything. Alexander Vukic's government took his hand that in June of the month... Where's Alexandra Tomic? Tomićka, how much surplus did we have in the budget? Twenty billion dinars, without any single privatization, and they had hundreds of privatisations in Serbia 2008, 2009, 2010 had a negative growth rate of minus 3.6. Then Nenad Konstantinovic gets up and says, hey, you're messing around with the ministries. Oh, we're not messing with anything. We want to correct everything that you have ruined in 12 years of your reign. You have done more damage in economic terms to the state of Serbia than the Turks who ruled these parts for hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17452	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic spoke as a proposing representative. First of all, Mrs. Komic, you and Mr. Konstantinovic have, but first of all, Mr. Konstantinović's right to the replica has Mr. Neđo Jovanovic and Mr. Orlic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17453	I thank you, Chairman. It is interesting how much dramaturgy and scripting approach is trying to defuse a quality legal act, in particular in the case of amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. But what further defeats the opposition is the fact that just the predecessor who spoke before Mr. Martinovic did not look back on his recent past. It is said that the SNS could not form a government without the SPS. Could the DS have formed a government without the SPS? Well, she couldn't. She couldn't, certainly she couldn't, but with much less respect for the SPS then she did, given that all the leverages of the authorities, and especially those of the financial ones, were held by them. When we talk about responsibility, then let's ask the citizens one question that is crucial, which is – where is the responsibility of the then Minister of Economy for the death of a huge number of companies, for a huge number of catastrophic privatisations, for a criminal law on privatisation, for hundreds of thousands of people without a job, without existence, with the collapse of the economy to the economic cemetery? Where is the responsibility of those who then made up the government? We didn't have those resistors. We haven't traded with anyone, the SPS has no reason to trade with anyone. We just concluded an agreement with a coalition partner with whom we have correct relations, relations with mutual respect. The agreement requires the exclusive adoption of legal acts that will improve the government's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17454	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17455	Just to finish, another sentence that will improve the government's work, and in no case will we slave for personal solutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17456	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. That was two sentences. You said one. Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic first has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17457	Thank you very much. The main thing is to mention the party, if someone wasn't there. So again on the subject of this interesting, I have to admit, very interesting remarks about political trade. We've been talking here, ladies and gentlemen, all day long about forming ministries or that part-time work. For what? Because of the standard, because of the need of the state, because something is prescribed by some law. Whoever said no word on that subject is a man, doesn't challenge a single word, doesn't dispute a single letter, it's as if this moment was created on planet Earth and it's starting to talk – this is all made up, this is a political trade. If it isn't enough that he's already heard that there is a secure support for both this law and the election of the people's government. So what's the problem with this political trade, then what's the political trade that he has in mind when he says something like that? He may have in mind the political trade from, when it was 2012, when one, you remember him perhaps a famous model loses some elections, and then he saw that the better he rips out for the Serbs, even though he grieved over the movies of the sad end and promised himself he would end up in a very sad movie, he decided to try to form a government, and all by trading somehow, he wanted to be president of the government after that, so he failed. By acting like he's a yellow company around him that the model of behavior and they take it faster to shift it more politically again. Why? They said themselves, they hoped to be admitted to this government without him. Of course, no one called them, so they stayed where they belong, and that model then took it, so a few years later he made his own party, again trading politically with himself, hoping he'd get into some new government, which no one ever called him and ended up where he belongs. Fortunately, since he lived to try to win the election in 2017, he managed to break politically with his student, that he was running for his place, and then he didn't experience a fiasco that he would have to experience, and that's a good circumstance, and that's what I end up with, Mr. Chairman. If I had run for office, I believe I'd raise my hand to myself, and no one would want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17458	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. I don't give a shit, and you co-worker, Comic, are in the system. You want us to give priority to our colleague, then you get straight to the replica. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17459	So, my colleague Martinovic obviously didn't understand me well and misread what I was saying. I don't know if you read what you suggested or if someone wrote it to you, you just signed it and proposed a law like this. You have left very consciously in the power of the Ministry of Energy words - supervision and preparation of the proposals for acts, etc. Therefore, there is no supervision by the Energy Ministry towards EPS and "Srbigas". And you can't possibly change that. I don't know what kind of interpretations. It's just that there's no such thing. You have the opportunity as a committee to bring in the amendment, so maybe you can change that. I can't go down to my colleague Martinovic's level and insult him. I can't insult you, you insult me and you know that you're not telling the truth about half the things you said. All the people you mentioned that they were stealing something very well you know they weren't, because if they were in these five years how many SNS in power they'd be prosecuted and I'm guessing convicted in front of the court you're on and what influence you're having. Remember the number of SNS judges you returned to the judiciary. So it's not worth it, and there's no reason for you to insult me, but for you to understand what the opposition is saying and try to change that. It can't be "Serbia" without supervision, it can't be EPS without government supervision and don't do it. If you're ashamed of the SPS, and now you're explaining how you have most of them and without them, it's clear to everyone that you don't, because that you wouldn't have such concessions rules. You have 102 MPs in the Serbian Parliament. I know that you were angry that in the 2016 elections, only 102 MPs were given, and you were hoping to get more.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17460	I thank Mr. Konstantinovic. If you allow us, first of all, to give the right to a replica to counterpart Gordani Komic, since it was mentioned at one point by the president of the DS. Here you go, colleague Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17461	The Democratic Party has been mentioned here in several moments with both the sporty attitude and the spirit of the urge to slander, insult, disdain and other language of political folklore that is unworthy of every institution, the National Assembly, so that we know how and in the future we will replicate on the basis of this replica. The economic programme of the SNS coalition, the SPS, the SDP of Rasim Ljajic, the SPO, the SVM, the economic programme that you are implementing is an economic programme of DOS. The idea you're carrying out and applying is DOS ideas, DSS ideas, and DSS at one point. Both the economic and political programmes of regional reconciliation are ideas of DOS and DS, and that's good what you do. That those ideas beat you. It didn't occur to you, not to the SPS, not to the others, except for Rasim, it always occurred to him that you would have these ideas carried out before 2000. You took one good idea, one good idea won Serbia, that's an idea carried by DOS. There are other parties left in their idea, large Serbia without co-operation and with populations that are legitimate and legal, but the ruling coalition is not, it beats the idea we've worn for 10 years fighting the 90s against the then ruling idea, that it's good to beat everyone in the region and that the economy doesn't matter. Anything else you repeat as errors, you repeat DOS and DS errors. Unnecessarily. I am not asking this replica, or any future, to bring up the DS for good, but don't say exactly what you're talking to us, slandering Dragan Sutanovac, slandering Mirko Cvetkovic, other people, Mladjan Dinkic, who sat with you in the government for two years and made an economic programme, which is conducted by the SNS. Don't do yourself, not us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17462	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17463	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the idea of DOS was to break into the National Bank with machine guns, the idea of DOS was to break into the National Assembly and burn it, the idea of the DOS was to break into the Federal Customs Administration, the idea of the DOS was to sell one sugar shop for three euros, and three sugars for nine euros, the idea of the DOS was to privatise for small money anything that could be privatised, the idea of DOS was to borrow abroad at interest rates of 7.8, 10 and 12 percent, unreally increase wages and pensions, to get some elections. That was the idea of DOS. The idea of Aleksandar Vukic and SNS is to heal the Serbian economy, on real grounds to increase salary and pension growth, fight crime and corruption, consolidate public finances, constantly work to reduce the budget deficit, and have a healthy economy. This is a fundamental difference in economic terms between SNS and DOS, the idea of DOS was, above all, political, to come to power at any cost, the economic idea was to have a sick economy, because only thanks to a sick economy could provide political power. The SNS says otherwise, we will have power if the people vote for us. We won't be in debt abroad, we won't be taking unfavourable loans to win some elections, because there are lives and if you're not in power, but you thought there was no life if someone isn't in power, because that's what we'd be dealing with in life all those who have been since 2000. – In 2012 ruled Serbia that 5. They didn't come to power in October 2000. Please tell me, what would happen in life if it wasn't for Zoran Zivkovic? What would your President Dragan Sutanovac be? What did he do until then? What did he start his career on? And many others, Boris Tadic, say he was a psychologist at some elementary or high school. I don't mind that, Your Honor, but would he have ever become president of the state if it hadn't been for that break-in with the machine guns on October 5th at state institutions? As for Dragan Sutanovac, I hope you know that he as defence minister melted our cannons, tanks, that we were selling boats, so when the floods hit us in 2014, the boats had to lend us Slovenians. These are the effects of your party president's work. Of course, he's done a lot of things behind him. He built a huge building on the pasture of the Wizard. I don't think he could have done it on the minister's salary. I doubt it, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe a minister's salary can build a building. Maybe he can, and maybe he can't. What I do know is that the budgetary inspection at the Ministry of Finance, at the time of Dragan Sutanovac was the defence minister, found that he had achieved enormous benefits for himself to so-called. Course differences. That's what he was talking about, after all, and your former party colleague, former Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, General Zdravko Ponos. If I'm not mistaken, because of the conflict with Dragan Sutanovac has also left the Democratic Party. As for Mr. Konstantinovic, who says I insulted someone, I did not insult anyone, only one contract signed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection read one piece, that the company "New South War" was paid for 14 days 500,000 euros in order to have a billboard "Let's Clean Serbia" standing on the building on the corner of Brankova and Pop Luka's street. Maybe it was all in line with the law, maybe it was all democratic, maybe it was all European, you just have to tell me in which country of the European Union, in which this democratic, civilized country in the world in general, the emphasis of billboards, any, and the billboard "Let's Clean Serbia", costing us 500,000 euros for 14 days? Well, I don't think it costs that much to bring up billboards in New York, London and Paris, not Belgrade. Here, that's what you were doing when you were running a resort called environmental protection. These are the consequences of your work. I've set an example. There's an example of how much you want, but it's not an insult, it's not an insult. Don't think that's why someone hates you or that someone wants you bad. I'm just telling you that no problem arises overnight. The problems in Serbia have been inducing for 12 years and as no problem arises overnight, no problem can be solved overnight. It would be nice if in a year, two or five years, all those who have eaten and robbed Serbia could be brought to justice, but, slowly, justice is slow but accessible. A former mayor of Novi Sad from the DS was convicted of malfeasance with construction land in Novi Sad. Therefore, do not call on that justice too much. She's slow, but when she comes, you never know what time she can find you. So always be ready. Be prepared for that moment when justice comes for you. Always keep your toothbrush ready, blanket, double socks, maybe someday you'll need them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17464	Four MPs have been reported in the system. I think all four MPs have a basis for replication, but I will respect the order defined in the system. First of all, the right to the replica of MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17465	Thank you, Chairman. It is difficult to answer all the offices and lies presented in the last half-hours in this debate and whenever we talk in the Assembly and criticize the arguments of certain solutions, as the solutions that are now in the draft of the ministry law, the stories of 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, the stories of some thieves, some privatisations, how much we have eaten this country, and we are constantly trying to get back into the past, saying that they were thieves before us, how they stole, and that way we think about every debate, and then finally Mr. Martinovic says, no, we are not threatening anyone here for anything, but get ready, get ready for the brush, save the socks, save the blanket. Mr. Martinovic, I have none of this prepared, and I am prepared for every court that you and the state you run wants towards me and for my party members at any time to enforce justice, and we are prepared not because we need a brush, blanket and socks, we are ready because we have not stolen anything, which we have not broken a single law. We sleep peacefully and have no problem waiting for that day when your justice will come. You've been running this country for five years. For five years now, the president, the former prime minister, co-ordinator of the Security Service, was able to investigate everything that was done in this country and had no single evidence against any member of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17466	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17467	Well, even at my presentation, Mr. Chairman, it couldn't have come to the conclusion that someone was offended, because I seem to have ended up with a completely affirmative conclusion. I just said it was good, and I'm glad it wasn't that former president, the famous model, who had someone in his head that looked like George Clooney, was, that it was really good that he didn't run for election in 2017, because we all know he lived for that moment, and we all know what could wait for him as a result – some insignificant percentage, and that's it. I said, it's a good thing he didn't run because it saved his health. He couldn't face what became his purpose in life, and it could only end as a disaster, so I don't see an insult there. What was I gonna say? Since it's been mentioned here that some people have been stealing, so what are we going to do with them now, why aren't they being processed? She could not, ladies and gentlemen, this debate and this replica end without being in the spirit of those nations – without each beast showing its mark. That's right, justice takes some of its time, but justice comes and comes. There's already some nice knocks on the door, and I think that's where we need to find the motives for this much bile we see on the other side. As for the mention of that trade, political, but not only political, and to blame us for forming a government within the legal time limit, obviously because some have a serious problem with the law as a law, and to mention some costs, although well written – there is no further funding required, no additional costs, I see here that whoever openly puts himself in the role of Protector Miroslav Miskovic, for whom justice has come and there is some judgment and there is something going on on on that topic, and you are serving him with a service, trying to make it possible for some tsar, some of the cost be at the service, that they report here and whatever tells us. I understand that they have a problem with the law, I understand that, but to mention the trade of those who have torn up their cheeks, and I understand that very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17468	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17469	Thank you. As promised, every replica. The idea of DOS, the idea of DS won. She beat you. What you thought before that was an idea, you left and that's a good thing what happened. Run the DOS economic program. The ideas of anti-discrimination have won and that's good. Today in Serbia it is not allowed to discriminate on someone because of religious, sex, sexual, any other differences, because the government in Serbia doesn't give it and that's good, DOS beat you. You've been beaten by the ideas of the DS. Economic program. You are the political executives of the economic programme that DOS experts prepared in 2001. Mladjan Dinkic has been doing this with you for two years and that's good. Don't feel uncomfortable, because if you're uncomfortable with identity, then you go into verbal violence and lie about Dragan Sutanovac, about Mladjan Dinkic, about whom you want, about tanks that melt. There goes the debauchery of people, the spine, instead of dialogue. I think the president of your party and the president of Serbia would be quite disappointed that we didn't understand the sentence of breaking into real bridges. What kind of bridges are we going to make for regional reconciliation, for dialogue with Kosovo, if we are standing here in this assembly on verbal violence, on the spine and on lies just because we are all defeated by the European idea together? It is a good basis for future dialogue, not for such folklore, for no one to benefit, and only for those who are entertained by verbal violence by a dictionary that absolutely brings no benefit to anyone. Your will. I understand when the idea beats you, but people didn't beat you. Good idea beat you. Don't be aggressive with people. You believe in Europe, then you work for Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17470	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17471	Thank you. The SNS was said to be ashamed of the SPS. The Socialist Party of Serbia has no reason to be ashamed of anyone, nor will the SPS allow anyone to be ashamed. If the work of our ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a reason to be ashamed, then we can talk about it, but it is certainly not a fact that could cause any shame, on the contrary. What the SPS has and others don't, especially those who respect it, is our experience. We learned from our mistakes. We also learned about what was from 2008 to 2012. We've been learning about everything we've been through, and we've come to where we've come from, and thank God we meet where we are. Speaking of ideas, these aren't DOS ideas, they're not DS ideas, they're not even their satellites. It's civilizational ideas. These are the ideas of Europe. These are ideas that no one invented as hot water. But you should ask the citizens what happened to those ideas after 2000 that were betrayed, what about those promises that were made before October 5, 2000, and what about those promises until 2012? Where do citizens see it during this time period their better life? Unfortunately, nowhere, and unfortunately, because of the atomization not only of the DS, but of all those that came from DS, it couldn't have been experienced. Therefore, the SAA remains consistent with the agreement and a correct relationship with the SNS in order to improve citizens' lives with this law and other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17472	Thank you. The floor is represented by a national MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17473	We heard that at DOS time democracy ruled, that human rights and freedoms were respected, that there was no discrimination. I am now asking you, ladies and gentlemen of the people's parliamentarians and dear citizens of Serbia, do you remember how on October 5th lynched by a group of hooligans by the then director of RTS Dragoljub Milanovic? Do you remember those videos when 50 people hit beastly after one man? Was that respect for human rights? Was that democratic? Was that European? Do you remember when people with black socks on their heads and hackers that night... (Gordana Comić: Savamala? Well, something worse happened than samala. I think it's worse to beat a man in a dead name than to bring down three illegally destroyed barracks in Savamala. As I think it's a serious crime per state when you and those phantoms come in, and the hackers, on the night between October 5th and October 6th at the NBS and the Federal Customs Administration, and that's what you from DOS did. I ask you, from DOS democratic, European, civilised, when values such as respect for human rights were nurtured, how could it happen that, in front of its apartment in New Belgrade, a former head of Belgrade's Centre of State Security, Momir Gavrilovic, called Gavra, was killed? How could it happen during this time of democracy and respect for human rights that on 10 June 2002 in a parking lot outside the Hotel "Yugoslavija" the assistant head of the Public Security Resor General Major Bosko Buha was killed? How could it happen that, on November 26, 2002, Ljutica Bogdana Street, at the Red Star Stadium, an automatic rifle burster was killed at the time by Deputy Chief of the First Administration of the Federal Interior Ministry Nenad Batcanin? In the end, how could the president of the government of Zoran Djindjic be killed at 12.25pm in the yard of the Serbian government building? We forgot one name in that list of killed during democracy, human rights flourishing and tolerance. Do you remember the DOS name of Judge Nebojko Simenovic, who disappeared in November 2000, the Belgrade District Court's investigative judge disappeared on 6 November 2000, so a month after 5 October? The last person he spoke to was his sister Jelica. A day later, he was last seen alive with two men on Prince Michael's street in Belgrade. In 2010, a man was found killed. Do you remember in June 2001 in Jagodina in front of his apartment Milan Pantic was killed? Look at the number of people killed in times of democracy and respect for human rights and freedom. Do you remember when the officers trampled on Ranko Panic's boots in June 2008, do you remember that, just because he thought otherwise from Boris Tadic? Just because he thought differently from you who were in power, the members of the squad of the gendarmes of the hips and boots crushed the skull of Ranko Panic. It was July 29th, 2008, on July 30th 2008, Ranko Panic was brought to the Emergency Centre and died in the hospital on 15 August 2008. On September 2, 2008, the autopsy report said – he received, quote, a fatal blow to the stomach. Tell me, on the other hand, which of the officers, of the journalists, of the protesters who otherwise demonstrated here yesterday in front of the National Assembly building when the MPs took the buses to Serbia's Palace for the election of Alexander Vukic for the President of the Republic, who demonstrated, whistled, showed us some rusty spoons, etc., who was killed at the time of Alexander Vukic, not killed, as Marko Atlagic says, who was beaten? Who lacked hair from the head all these days when at your invitation, at the invitation of Bojan Pajtic, Sasa Jankovic, Vuk Jeremic and all other people protested on the streets of Belgrade? You couldn't even see the cop in the photos. Not that a pendrek wasn't used, the police weren't. At that time, democratic times, civilized times, so people lost their lives like flies, killed in parking lots, in front of their apartments, in hotel parking lots, who knows where. Do you remember how you threatened, some of these people aren't alive anymore, so just from the petticoat to the fact that man is no longer alive, I don't want you to use their name, do you remember how you threatened your political opponents, let Nedjo Jovanovic correct me if I'm wrong, that you'll cut their kids to their heads to mark who their parents are just because they were against DOS policy? Who among us today is giving such threats to you who are members of the former regime? Who today beats up your political, or political, non-equal ones? At the meeting organised by the SNS, you brought Olja Bećkovic. Fifty people from SNS security had to be hired to keep that lady from missing hair from her head. Why? Because, like October 5th, you sought blood on the streets of Belgrade. We don't want blood on the streets of Belgrade. We don't want bloodshed. We don't want any children crying in Serbia just because his parent is a member of this political party or that political party. We want Serbia to develop. You're welcome to protest, you're welcome to rally, but it's not your SNS' fault that there are 10, 20 or 50 people coming to your protests. It's your fault. I'll use my cell phone again, don't mind me, about how spontaneous the protests are. (Zoran Krasic: What is this? Wait a minute, it's important to say. Says protest participants – please report to your DS local board between 18 and 20 hours to receive a compensation of 3,000 dinars for participating in demonstrations. You're still paying people to come to those demonstrations of yours and get 50 people together. What if the demonstrations were really spontaneous, so two people couldn't get together in front of the National Assembly, but that's about you, about your political strength, about how much people trust you, like the numbers that Alexander Vukic won in the 2012 elections, and 2014 and 2016 and 2017 show that the people absolutely trust him. The people don't trust you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17474	Mr Konstantinovic, the right to replica has Marko Djurisic as head of the parliamentary group, but before him the right to the replica Gordana Comic, as an authorised representative of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17475	Thank you. As promised, the idea of DS, the idea of DOS, the economic programme of DOS. -a, regional co-operation, reconciliation with Albanians, dialogue with Kosovo, Serbia's EU membership, the idea has won and you are political perpetrators of the idea, and that's good news. Don't fight it, especially don't undo your identity in such a way of speaking and don't insult people who voted for DS, no matter how many, 200 thousand, 300,000, no matter how many, someone voted for us to be in the Assembly. We don't insult the people who voted for you. I claim that this is their right, their right to choose, but I will be against it, precisely because the idea of DS has won, the idea of DOS, the economic programme of DOS, regional reconciliation, co-operation with neighbours, reconciliation with Albanians, dialogue with Kosovo, European integration, everything we carried with us as an idea and showed everyone is accepted, and that's good. Each of your intentions is that this language of violence and threats, that the messages of the type “pack a toothbrush and a blanket,” and similar humor can only get an answer – I would already be there if the idea of DS hadn’t won. I have a little bag from the '90s, and tickets, and cigars, and small money, because I was where you sent me, like I was in the National Assembly Hall when you read one name of the killed in the street, in the government yard, when I was looking at the faces of many here from now on, laughing in my face and asking me what's going on in the assembly today? A memorial to the Prime Minister, I say, and they still laugh. Now, that's won too.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17476	Thank you. Right to the replica of SDS parliamentary group head Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17477	Thank you, Chairman. Unfortunately, I cannot share the optimism of my colleague Comic that the idea of Europe in Serbia has won, as the story of Europe in parliament never gets a round of applause from the ruling majority as it gets the story of October 5th as the darkest day in Serbia's recent history. Even Mr. Martinovic's exposure says he doesn't understand what happened in 2000, which led to October 5th, why people were that October 5th, what they wanted and what change happened. It tells of what happened after October 5th, about many crimes, the crimes that resulted from that system that existed until October 5th, which we failed to deal with and why the state of Serbia paid the most possible price, by killing the Prime Minister on March 12th 2003, by making criminals and bringing criminals into the security system. Now I could start counting all the murders before October 5th, but where would that lead us, and how will we be or how will we look as a society in 2018, 2020 or 2025? I do not believe, unfortunately, that it has defeated the idea of Europe, the idea of democracy, the idea of justice, because with it here in the Assembly, it speaks pesoriously, and applause is given to people who were on the streets of Belgrade on 5 October 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17478	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17479	Once again, we don't insult anyone. I'm just asking, all of you from DOS, who killed Momir Gavrilovic, who killed Bosko Buha, who killed Nenad Batcanin, who killed Judge Simeunović? Who killed Milan Pantic? Who did and why did he kill Ranko Panic? On whose orders is the man, who was over 60 years old, Dragoljub Milanovic brutally beaten in front of the RTS building? It's not an insult. That's the question. I ask you, who did this? Alexander Wolfie? Marian Risticevic? Marco Atlagic? Vladimir Orlic? Me or you who were in power back then? I can even tell you under what circumstances these murders took place. Momir Gavrilovic, who was killed on August 3rd 2001, has been instructed by the media that the assumption that Gavrilovic was killed due to details of crime with people in power has been established. The federal minister of the MUP was Zivkovic. The federal minister was also Boris Tadic. Bosko Buha, one of Serbia's white book composers of organised crime, began to provide information publicly. The murder was tried by a group of Željko Maksimovic Maka, who has been unreachable since June 2002. The final court hearing never happened. Looks like Maka's still in South America. Let me tell you what circumstances killed Nenad Batacanin, former Deputy Chief of Staff of the Federal Ministry of Interior, was killed in a car along with Zeljko Škrb. The stork was to be one of the key witnesses in one of the upcoming organised crime trials. For their murder, Zemunac, Vladimir Milisavljevic, called the fool, was convicted. For Nebojsa Simenovic, to this day, we don't know under what circumstances he was killed. Aleksandar Vukic was supposed to come to power, so that the murder of Ranko Panic was illuminated in the summer of 2008. You who are talking about the '90s, let me ask you another question - do you remember your 2000 promises, that you will find the money that ended up in the Cypriot banks? Where's that money? Have you ever found him? Where did they take the flow of that money? Whose pockets did that money end up in? And finally, let me ask you something open. How on the night between 5th and 6th October 2000, the national heroes were Milorad Ulemek Legion and Zvezdan Jovanovic and Spasojevic and Lukovic and Chume, and in 2003 they became the national enemies of number one. When they turned their backs on Slobodan Milosevic, they were your friends. You went to their parties, danced with them. In 2003, when, unfortunately, the murder of Zoran Djindjic took place, these people were declared enemies of the state. There, that was DOS policy – come to power at all costs and even at the cost of human heads. We don't want to pay that price. If the people want the SNS to rule this country, it will rule, if it doesn't want to send us into opposition, but it doesn't occur to us to survive in power thanks to the robberies, thanks to the prevention of organised crime, it doesn't occur to us that blood trails and dead heads of various fleas, Gavri, Simenovic, Pantic and all others killed during DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17480	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17481	Dear Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. It's personal to me, as a person who's been in politics lately, very interesting to listen to what these exes have been doing. I'm grateful to the colleagues who are starting this issue, but it really isn't the place and time today, let's deal with this right now, because time is already going, and there's a list of speakers to be brought in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17482	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. Look, I'm glad you ordered. You don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. My intention was not to prevent the democratic confrontation of opinions and democratic debate, and I equally respected positions and oppositions through the right to replication. I'm glad that you, as someone in the opposition, have indicated that we should go back to what is the essence, and that's the agenda. In accordance with your request, pursuant to Article 112, I will take a five-minute break to continue with the order of MPs according to the application for a word. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. In the order of the MPs, according to the application for the word, the People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17484	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by introducing the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of European Integration, Serbia shows a clear commitment to follow European values, and shows a clear commitment to accept the benefits and benefits of EU membership, but also to accept both the obligation and responsibility for membership in that large family of peoples of Europe. The introduction of the Ministry of Environment today has made many people happy who, as individuals or members of certain organizations and associations, daily with a lot of enthusiasm and love struggle for a better, healthier and cleaner environment. With the introduction of the Ministry of Environment, we got this political and professional authority that needs to introduce new power, a new energy in the functioning of the entire environmental protection system. We met this ministry when we least hoped, maybe he couldn't have been any different, I guess he's matured. We make it conscious that tomorrow it will build us, build us as humans and build our relationship to the environment. We are all, as part of it, the work of nature. The measure of all things in life is man and his relationship to other people as well as to the environment. While human mental health determines that condition in its environment until then, the environment has its effect on him, affecting both his mental and physical health. The state of our environment is such that it could be better. The main task of the ministry will certainly be to open Chapter 27, an extremely large, demanding and difficult chapter. The EU rules in this area are large, and even one third of the laws in the environment are as many of the total laws as the EU has. The transposition of regulations to our national legal system is the first step in the process of adapting to EU standards, and these standards and their resolution for the final result have clean water, clean air, clean land, clean dumps. We certainly have to define the two key problems we have here. One is finance, and the other is administrative capacity. We cannot solve these problems without the help of Europe. For this there are two possible directions – one is through a private-public partnership to provide funds, bring knowledge, experience of others, but the state must do so centrally and must do so to exclude any possibility of misunderstanding by local self-government. Another possibility, perhaps even more effective, which I won't talk about too much about right now, I'll talk about when we talk about the government, which is to take you away from one country as a mentor, a country that has passed this process and which, by its capital, knowledge and experience, could first and foremost provide us with all the funds from pre-accession funds. This way, with our capacities, we'll hardly be able to get 10% of the pre-accession funds to take. On the way to the opening of Chapter 27, we've already done a lot. Bilateral screening, i.e. an analytical review of the state of compliance with European Union regulations, was successful and the European Commission made one precedent for Serbia. In fact, she allowed us to create a post-screening document, practically, so that we could open Chapter 27 without conditions and without so-called. the criteria. What do I expect from the Ministry of Environmental Protection? I expect that the aim of the ministry is to promote sustainable development and preserve the environment, both for the present generations and for the future; that it has a solid and stable ecological policy based on the principles of preventive action, before the damage or pollution occurs on the principle – the polluter pays whenever possible, that the cost of environmental protection should be borne by a legal or physical person who threatens the environment and not by society in general; that it has a clear strategy and action plans in all areas; to be a professional and political authority that will be a roof under which thoughts, ideas and plans will be collected. The ministry has to ensure the continuity of good ideas and proposals to solve problems, so that we don't lose our pace and forget everything and go back to some new beginnings. I expect the ministry not to be a hostage of individuals, stakeholders who, for the sake of personal interest, are the brakes of the development of the environmental protection system and to degrade the environment more than they protect and fertilise it. I expect all the dumps in all the environments to be resolved and the number of wild dumps to be reduced to a minimum, or not at all; to solve the secondary raw materials collection system, to stop watching the Roma wander through containers and thus provide secondary raw materials for recycling. They're invisible people who aren't in our social system and who don't even have health care. We could do it on the case of others, first of all, in the case of Brazil, who had a situation similar to ours, and through the social enterprise, he put those people into the system, took them off social aid, but gave them a salary and guaranteed them opportunities, not to mention how many more secondary raw materials have been collected and how much the rate of recycling has increased in Brazil. I expect waste to be a source of income, not a source of problems; to be hit by the foundations of the green economy; to improve the information and acquisition of new knowledge and the interested public; to get all the population of Serbia in the coming period of adequate quality and quantity; to pay more attention to water protection due to floods, erosion, floods. I expect the established water management strategy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia 2016-2034 to be the initial document for reforming the water sector. I expect that the new ministry will adequately respond to the greatest obligations, that the population has sound drinking water and built wastewater treatment plants. I expect us to preserve land from pollution and produce healthy food, etc., etc. There's a lot of it. Expectations are high. I hope that much will be done and that we will know that we will preserve this beautiful country and all its resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17485	Thank you, colleague Blazic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Comrade Vukadinovic, the time that belongs to your assembly club is seven minutes and 28 seconds. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17486	I think you could see in the last half hour or hour, what is the manner of function and what is the way it works here in the ruling majority Assembly. I was wondering if it was just the tolerance of the chairman, the cause of what came up, actually a series of replicas that were allowed or actually fit them? I thought that maybe only to the pain or soft heart of our chairman, but in fact, I think that this series of replicas with Mrs. Komic because she on one hand, her colleagues from the ruling majority, were constantly reminded of one painful truth or fact, at least from her point of view, that they, or that you had achieved or taken over most of those ideas of DOS, with her looking at it optimistically. I'm not so optimistic, so I'm more inclined to what my colleague Marko Djurisic said. You, of course, replied, did not want or dare directly to oppose the whole story to me, the controversy is a little bit like the Montenegrin story, the situation where you had Milo Djukanovic who took over in some way and won and implemented the policies of Montenegrin liberals. After all, he did what he did with Montenegro. I'm talking about analogy, I don't think it's the exact same thing. Anyway, I get the impression that you either worship or colleagues from the ruling majority to break up with DS representatives, because then they pull out sometimes real, sometimes a little imaginary sins and then they come back to you. They tell you that you actually took over their policy, which is largely true. With what I would like to say to justice that you have taken over more politics, as I said this morning, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, and therefore no wonder that he in any way supports or tries to enter a position to support your government and your majority. However, Cedomir Jovanovic can be very resented and I resent him, but he cannot be denied that he has some continuity and some consistency, as did Mrs Comic. I'm afraid that consistency does not exist in the ruling majority's views. But you're much more likely to argue with them first of all, and for trouble and for us, from this second, conditionally speaking, the national part of the opposition to avoid actually facing an unpleasant fact, which is what is the topic of today's agenda and what is waiting for us next week, which is that the ruling majority, primarily SNS, has been put in a position to pass a law introducing the Ministry of Eurointegration, and so that next week chooses the first LGBT or gay prime minister, the Serbian Prime Minister. Don't be alarmed by this finding because the question of gender identity and gender commitment mentioned and introduced into the debate is precisely Mr. Aleksandar Vukic when he represented his government and when he represented the prime minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. I didn't know, I didn't care about anyone's sexual orientation. But the prime minister found it appropriate to launch it. At that time, many of the ruling majority counterparts said they were having a hard time falling, that they would find it difficult to swallow, but would accept it because the prime minister for Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, suggested. Now they have a difficult problem, an even bigger bite, to swallow that same person, or Mrs. Brnabic, vote tomorrow or next week for Prime Minister. My problems aren't that kind of thing. My problems are her biography, and I think it will be, as many colleagues in the public said, that there will be some kind of puppet and transmission only and ultimately, that her current career, political or professional, does not indicate that political capacity so that she can be Prime Minister. I think that's what the good part of you believes. Somewhere deep down, you mean it. So, after all, Mr. Vukic had meetings with your MP club to explain why it was good and why it should be like that. Now, since you can't be angry with yourself or some colleagues, Mr. Martinovic, especially since you can't be angry with your president, Mr. Vukic, thanks to whom you are where you are and who has won most of the votes in the presidential elections uncontestably, I only dispute the quality of victory. He got the most votes, convincing, and why that difference is as much as it is, it's also a question for my opposition colleagues, why they went to so many columns. It's all nice and beautiful, but from that fact, it doesn't make anyone right any more and someone less. The one with 2% can be as right as the one with 20% or the one with 50% or 60%. The problem is the consistency of political and continuity. That's why it's so much easier to either attack DOS and scold some DOS fantasy, or these traitors, as you call them, and as you qualify them, those who socialize together and perform on the myths and here in the assembly with this notorious DOS. I'm thinking about me and my colleagues from the Parliament Group and my colleagues from the Dvora. So if we're the worst, we're not the subject now. I simply miss my colleague Risticevic now with those photos, contracts, data, etc., but I think the ruling majority has grown so mature that she has concluded that it may not be best to be their promoter and main frontman at times when they vote on the European Integration Ministry. I have a political problem, I don't have a personal problem with anyone here, a political problem with the introduction of the Ministry of Eurointegration at a time when you, dear colleagues, of the ruling majority have said at least three or four times now that we are going there whether we join the EU or not. We're going that way, and if we go in, we'll see if they see us. So, what do we need the European Integration Ministry for? Then what do we need the Ministry for? I'm saying -- and you're not building a ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. On the side of what Mr. Martinovic does to me, he owes me an apology for that afternoon replica, because what you said and mentioned some apartments, kids studying abroad, penthouses in Vienna, etc., you said it right after me, so maybe the public might get the impression that it applies to me, and you, God and I know that I have nothing to do with it. My kids went to college here, they work here, they live here, they're great and they're better than me. I do not have any property abroad, so you do not have to go to Europe and the EU to provide legal certainty for our opposition properties in this way. That was probably said in the heat of a political struggle, but I'm saying, it's been said after me and it looks like it's referring to my account, and you know it's not true and it has nothing to do with the truth. However, as for the Ministry of Ecology, or for environmental protection, I support, regardless of what increases the number of ministries, I don't think that's bad. As far as the European Integration Ministry is concerned, I don't think there's any political, no logical, no human justification, especially given how and how you, as we see it, don't believe too much in that idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17487	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17488	"Na na na na na na na na na na na na na na nalaka" or as they would say, "my God! He was badly injured in 106. The chairman, you did not warn the predecessor when at least two-thirds of his exposure was spent on the prime minister's election, although it has nothing to do with the ministry law. I would really ask you in the future to take care of it, especially when someone who changed the nation to join the congregation tells you about consistency. I think it's extremely inappropriate, because you can't be a bit of a Serb, so a little bit of Vlach, so you can go back to being a Serb, just to get into parliament, and especially you can't be consistent if you like public enterprises, so when you do research from the chair, you get one nine million dinars from some company to do that research, just because you're hooked up and you work for that government and you write in "Politica" texts...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17489	Ambassador, you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're entering a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17490	... who are affirmative for Vuk Jeremic or Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17491	Get in the line, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17492	I beg you, article 106 has been roughly broken and I would ask you to keep an eye on the agenda in the future or not. The gentleman just didn't exactly stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17493	I agree. Little did we all stick to the strict agenda, otherwise we would only be talking about the need to introduce two new ministries and their powers. I don't think the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you want, shall we vote? (No) I thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17494	Thank you, Madam President. It is a clear basis – the mention of the party, but it is possible that not everyone has arrived again to notice since the seven-minute exposure to everything except the agenda, and there is a fellow Djukanovic quite right, it was truly magical. If you've thought about the Vlach magic, you're right. But, more importantly, what is more serious is whose policy when certain members of DOS structures are asked here, so they're talking to the SNS, which we heard earlier. It was never a policy of the SNS, and it was the Wolf of Tadic's Jeremic, and therefore these MP groups formed on the control of his money, to release the UCHK terrorists for one's daughter and for one's personal whim, can also be material. The change is small, and so is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, which is often talked about by those who have challenged this replica. It is a small matter of change and the issue of these Eurointegrations and NATO Pacts and whatever you want with respect to what is really important to them, and I mean millions and Vuk Jeremic, but also much less denominations of some, as it were, 300,000 dinars a month, for what seems to have been the dispute brought by those who have also caused these replicas by their former political party associates and parliamentary clubs. This is what they are most interested in, so they can hang out with those who, Wikiliks said, have been calling for Serbia's membership in NATO themselves, those who are willing to deliver to Kosovo and Metohija for something and such money, those who are willing to bring millions without any origin and any excuse to run for elections, and to pass these elections again, as they have said today, with a controversial quality. They irrefutablely presented the International Court of Justice's opinion to separatists from Pristina. If they did something so good to the board, they did it. And Marijana Rističević and others to mention when they are in the O.R., to gather the loop and to behave with honor, if they have the honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17495	Ambassador, it's been a while, and I didn't understand who you were replicating. I will respect the remarks of the SRS parliamentary group, which I did not allow, i.e. to their head of the parliamentary group today to replicate, and there was a basis, but I interrupted one longer debate. This has been going on for over an hour. The word is Ana Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17496	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to speak on this subject today, because the results of the work of the previous Government are indeed for every commendation, although they are trying to challenge them today. The ministry law is very important and it will determine the frameworks of the future government's work. In the past five years, we have shown that we are a good team and that our goals and plans are not just a letter on paper, but that it is indeed one way to move our country into the future. The people know that, and that's why they trust him again, and that's why he chose Alexander Vukic as president of our Serbia. That trip led by the government in the previous term, I am sure the new prime minister will continue. It's a path that equally appreciates both internal and foreign policy. Inland so that no category of population was neglected, and externally, we built the integrity and authority of our country, which could also be seen in the inauguration of President Aleksandr Vukic when we had guests from both the West and the East in one place. Today is the agenda of the Ministry Act, and if we adopt it, we will get two new ones, i.e. Two new ministries will be established. The first is the European Integration Ministry, which represents a very important ministry because we are on the European path that citizens have chosen and it will significantly improve the efficiency of opening new chapters and the efficiency of our path to the EU. As far as the environment ministry is concerned, it is very difficult for countries that are in transition to implement various conventions that are related to environmental protection, because indeed in all the problems in which countries in transition are found to be a marginal issue. But what is important is that we have recognized the importance of protecting the life of the environment and that we are really trying to implement in a better way everything that developed countries have implemented in their governments. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support this bill in the voting day, because we believe it is the best way to move the future government, because it will follow the path that was being moved before. The people remember those who take care of them. This previous government in the previous term really cared about the people. We from the Socialist Movement, together with our President Alexander Vulin, are satisfied with the results achieved by the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. It's really hard not to say that no social money has been reduced during the period of savings, that the labour inspectorate has achieved such results that unemployment has been the lowest in the last 20 years. If we just compare April 2016 and 2017, we will see that unemployment is reduced by 8% in total. When we talk about efficiency, since this new distribution of ministries aims to improve the efficiency of the government's work, I just have to point out that the Ministry of Labour, without credit, without additional borrowing and without increasing the budget for this area, has reduced and reconciled the debts made by the former regime. Now I'm just going to read you some of the amounts. An internship of 4.37 billion dinar workers has been linked. Excess employees through the Solidarity Fund were saved for a total of 2.75 billion dinars. Debts to military pensioners amounting to 1.88 billion dinars have been settled. I note, that's all from the existing budget. Why am I saying this? The law on the agenda today will fully determine the frameworks for which the future government will move, and the main objective and the main word is the efficiency of the government's work. The government has proved that this path to efficiency has been proven in the previous term. The people know that the future government will move along the same path and maintain the stability of our country. We from the Socialist Movement support the proposal for the prime minister and support the future government and want to make the best efforts that we can make to keep our Serbia stable, to be safe and to keep people living from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17497	The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17498	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, each majority has the right and the possibility of constitutionally and legally determining what the government should look like, and we all know that. What is our task as an opposition is that we are criticising this idea from a point of view how much it will cost the citizens of Serbia, from the point of view of how the government will work and whether it will be able to implement the objectives effectively at this point. I will mainly talk about the idea and the proposal to form a ministry of European integration. A lot of people said it was a good idea. Indeed, when we look from the perspective of the current situation, when we have a minister with no portfolio in charge of European integration, then the establishment of the European Integration Ministry seems to be a good step. However, if we want to look really, and to come from the arguments this bill offers, that this is because of the complexity of the affairs that are before the government, and given the importance that we want to give to European integration, it would be much better, in my opinion, that this government decides to place one vice president in charge, in the capacity to be this coordinator of the process of European integration and negotiations with the European Union. Why would I think that? For the simple reason that it is the task of the said Minister of European Integration to coordinate the whole process, and we all know that one minister cannot actually coordinate the work of other ministers. That would make it much more effective and much better if it were the Deputy Prime Minister. In this state so far, as it has been, in the solution so far, it may have yielded results, since the prime minister was the party's president and representative of the political majority that formed the government, I think of Alexander Vukic, and he as the main negotiator, because let's not forget, the chief negotiator is actually the Prime Minister, has a huge role in this process of European integration. You are now preparing to propose to the Prime Minister a person with no political weight. After all, Alexander Vukic himself said that she would not deal with politics but rather with economic issues. So its impact politically on these European integration processes will not be significant. Why am I saying this? It is because most say that the tasks are priority European integration and negotiations with the European Union. It seems to me that such a goal and such a priority would be shown much more if the Deputy Prime Minister, one of the vice presidents, were put in charge of this job. The second reason is very important, and I would like to think about it carefully. When the Deputy Prime Minister co-ordinates the process of European integration, he relied on and relied on the government system as we had until the moment we gained candidate status, on the expert team, on the professional structure that exists at the Office for Association of the European Union and we have always adopted those arguments that go towards the fact that the process of European integration is primarily political, but very much the professional process that requires high competence and capacity of the administration. What I am afraid of when we now have a proposal to form a European Integration Ministry, that we will go more towards politicising this process, therefore, that we will go somewhere more towards devasting the professional structures that have been made so far, which are very important among other things and because they need this process and the whole structure to make it sustainable. Let us not forget, the process of European integration goes beyond the mandate of one, the other, the third governments and it will, unfortunately, take us longer than we may have originally thought, but it will go beyond the mandate of this government. Therefore, it is very important that we have, if we really really care about the results of this process, a sustainable structure that holds that process together. We have talked a lot here today about whether the idea of Europe has won. I would say it's not, because that idea implies, and that's why it's important, it's also because of how we form this government, what it's going to look like in its structure. She did not win because that part of Europe means, among other things, that we understand what the role of the majority is and what the role of the opposition is and that we do not apply it, and you do not apply it as most, because to apply it, then you would not always, when the opposition criticises something, send a message – prepare for jail. This prevents the dialogue needed in the European integration process as well. Let me say at the end of the next one. This idea means understanding institutions, understanding the competences of institutions and the rule of law. That's why it's not good that you're relativating the Savala case, and you're always representing it exclusively as the demolition of some boats that are not built in accordance with the law and for which it wasn't allowed. The main question of samale is not that. The main question is, why is it, and who sent the police a message not to act when the citizens invited her? For citizens, this is also the most important issue for European integration policy, which is the most important issue, and this is what all reports in Europe and ultimately an independent civil society report in Serbia ask. In the end, let me say something else. President Vukic called on the opposition to discuss both Kosovo and constitutional issues. It is my belief that we should discuss all state issues as a majority and as a minority, they do so in all developed democratic countries. The President of America is also meeting with representatives of the majority, with representatives of the minority, but in one atmosphere where dialogue is valued as a dialogue of equal, regardless of current political power. Most of them are the ones who create the atmosphere for dialogue. We all know that the media is so controlled that they secrete a huge amount of violence and hatred between themselves and the opposition. If in such an atmosphere we need to talk about anything, do you really think that there is a real possibility that these conversations might lead to something? That is why I appeal, when I am also talking about the Ministry of European Integration and the structure of this government, and we will, of course, talk about the Government much more when we get her proposal, that we are going somewhere together in which direction we really want this Serbia to go, whether we want to go towards excess violence, towards a lack of dialogue, whether we really want to put this country on a European path somewhere and that we are leading her in this direction. My belief that no European integration and no negotiations will actually bear fruit unless all the capacities of this society are engaged in that direction, and democratically-oriented Serbia is certainly an important factor without which this path will not be successfully crossed and I think it is important that we all take care of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17499	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17500	Thank you very much. Very short. Since we have raised issues of dialogue in society, culture of dialogue, a dignified and decent relationship. It's always good when someone sincerely advocates, but I sincerely underline, for a certain good standard, to start with how they stand on that matter, how they act on a certain matter, what kind of message they send, and whether they show that they really care about the relationship they call out for. For example, I am thinking out loud, if the one who says, and quite often says that he cares about the culture of dialogue, wants a good proper relationship with Alexander Vukic, who was mentioned just now, whether he finds it appropriate, whether he finds it right, to congratulate Alexander Vukic on the fair victory in the 2017 presidential elections. Congratulations to over 55%, 56% of Serbian citizens in the first round. For over two million and 12,000 votes, it seems to me votes in absolute numbers or just says that he would like a proper relationship with him with dignity, but he doesn't want to congratulate the contrary, he says it's not victory. Whether someone who wants an appropriate relationship with Alexander Vukic, who was invited to come and discuss the next government with that call by showing respect not only to him personally, but also to the institution of the President of the Republic, and also to the government of Serbia, the Assembly in which he sits, by coming to talk, by expressing his views, even if he disagrees, or by campaigning again with some completely empty stories not to recognise victory, not to recognise the President of the Republic, no longer recognises his own state. What kind of message he sends and whether he really means it when he says he cares about dialogue. Here, I'm willing to accept that someone cares about the dialogue. So let's start with these things that are elementary and basic. If we're a democratic society or we think, each and every one of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17501	Time, you've exceeded the time for this replica. The word is Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17502	You two obviously didn't understand me. I did not say that we care about an honest relationship with Aleksandra Vukic, we care about having a regulated state, an orderly parliament, and that we are together leading this country to Europe each of our roles. You are currently from the majority, we from the opposition, and you are creating as a majority with all the channels of influence that you have in this country through the media, through institutions, creating an atmosphere in which other, therefore, the opposition, but also to all other actors in society, you are sending a message whether talking to you is worth it, whether it makes sense. Well, when you ask what we did in the election and did we congratulate? First, we are here very culturally, institutionally coming to take an oath which is the official inauguration of the President of the Republic. It's the first thing. The second thing, we also said in the elections our word, and we eventually admitted the results of these presidential elections, but we also said that they were led in one atmosphere by a complete media blockade in which both the opposition and opposition candidates were given no place or minimum, so these are all reports of independent media monitoring bodies, that we are not going back to it. So when you hold presidential elections in such an atmosphere, then the opposition, of course, has the right to be qualitatively determined according to the result. We've quantitatively admitted it, of course. Secondly, I mentioned dialogue with regard to what you say as a majority, and we welcome that part that you want to see Serbia in Europe. It's the DS program since 1990 when I joined her, and we support it until we see what the laws and measures you suggest look like, then we criticise it. Vukic said he cares about talks with the opposition on Kosovo and the constitution. We believe that these issues should be discussed, but it is up to you to change the discussion in this House and the debate that is at large, it is time to change the media, so that this conversation makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17503	Thank you. There's no basis for replication, really. But you know, a member who speaks of replicas must meet certain conditions. Directly speaking to everyone, but depending on what they say, there was nothing rash. The word is Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17504	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I will speak today, particularly of the expansion of the government, with a new ministry, to tell the new old ministry. It is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and I am very happy that we will finally get a separate ministry, but not as a condition for undermining someone, but as one need to finally arrange our environment, as it should be. As we know, the basis of policy and policy objectives for environmental protection is about preserving natural values and resources, efficient economy and public health care, above all. Environment policy is multi-sectoral and therefore requires great attention to be given. When we talk about environmental protection, we know that this is one big problem and that Chapter 27, if we look at it in financial terms, is one of the most practically expensive chapters that we can open, when it comes to EU accession. What's this about? Ten years and more backwards, everything that was in Serbia and existed in any form has been destroyed, and when environmental protection is questionable. We had the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but unfortunately, it worked through three ways, or three institutions. One was just the ministry, the other was the Environment Protection Agency and the third was the Republic Environment Fund. We were witnesses, a few years ago when that fund was abolished, as the opposition's soul fought to preserve that republican fund. What did he serve? So it wasn't for state institutions, it wasn't for exceptional projects, environmental protection, clean water, river categorization, factory construction, wastewater treatment. He served as an incentive in a campaign for the democratic party's election. At the time, the minister was Mr. Dulic, and I will briefly read to you how the Republic Fund for the Protection of the Environment, handed over over two million dinars: the NGO mixer, the Republic Fund for Environmental Protection in June 2011, 949 500 dinars, May 2010, equal to a million dinars, the same No Government organization, the Ministry of Environment Protection in May 2011, donated 700,000 dinars, the budget of the city of Belgrade 6.6 million in 2011, and from the Treasury Office, we also have data that in 2010 he received a million and 400,000 dinars. Also, the NGO KIOKS, Ministry of Culture from 2008 to 2011, 9 350 590 dinars Nothing would be strange if this NGO were dealing with environmental protection. The "Mixer" in the APR was registered as, in practice, an NGO, or an association of citizens, non-profits, to improve creative creation in the field of culture, and, behold, wonders have received funds from the Republic Fund for Ecology, i.e. to protect the environment. Nor would it be strange, the owner of an NGO, or director of that, to say that the NGO was the son of Hope Kolundzhija, so that is how they cleaned Serbia. We have been left with the air pollution since the 2000 Assembly, which we fought with for 12 years, until the simple people saw who they should trust and who would simply introduce them to the EU. Even if such changes occur to dry European funds and, simply, something happens to slow the entry of other countries into the EU, we will arrange our country to our extent, to the value of our citizens and to our citizens. All the laws that we pass are too much for our citizens, not because of pre-accession funds and money laundering in this way and spilling money into the hands of officials, as some have done in the previous regime. So we'll do it for our children's health, for clean air, for clean water streams, for a healthy, clean, advanced environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17505	The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17506	I've been closely following the motionor's exposure all day. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act and it is required to be adopted by emergency procedure, and the legal basis for the adoption of the law is contained, in the proposal, in the provisions of Articles 136 and 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as contained in the provision of Article 97(6) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also provides for the government's position in Article 122, so I quote: "The government is the institution of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia". Article 123, paragraph 5, says: “He directs and coordinates the work of the State Administration Authority and controls their work.” Article 124. "The government is responsible to the National Assembly for the Policy of the Republic of Serbia, for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and for the work of the authorities of the state administration." Article 136, which is called upon by the Proposer at paragraphs 2 and 3, in the 1st position, which he has not called upon, states: “The state administration is independent, bound by the Constitution and law, and the government is responsible for its work,” and Article 4: “Internal arrangements of the ministries and other bodies of the state administration and of the organisation is prescribed by the Government. ” This is, in fact, a complete sunflower today, because today the proposer is the amendment and addition of this law, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Healthy logic simply states that if we know that until the election of prime minister, or mandate, the Government is in a technical mandate, if it is known again that Ana Brnabic, who is the minister of state administration and local self-government, is still in the technical mandate, it is likely that it was logical that the government, i.e. Ana Brnabic, should send such a law and amendments to the law to the Assembly, so that someone who will be at the head of the government tomorrow would say how much of the laws or ministries needed it to manage further work. When we talk about this, we have to realize that this was, in fact, just an equality, or part of a coalition partner to increase the number of ministries and no one can deny it anymore. On the other hand, when it comes to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, today the promoter in his presentation said, quote, in the nature of things, environmental protection cannot be within agriculture. Does this mean that former Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic misfitted things a year ago? Is this actually an attack on the former prime minister? Is this an attack on the president of the state and the president of the SNS just since Alexander Martinovic? Did the promoter actually vote for a bad government with his MPs last year? Furthermore, there is a completely unmistakable explanation of the reasons why it is proposed that the law enters into force before the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and I will quote the Constitutional Court Decision, which was entered into force under 817/2012 of 3 April 2014, published in "The Official Messenger" under number 69/2014 of 04 July 2014, which states: "The provisions of the General Act which stipulates that it enters into force on the day of its adoption are unconstitutional, because the Constitution condition for the entry into force of the General Act by the time of its publication." How many days since the election? The fact that someone was bored or didn't want to work or used the media to make a fuss about the new prime minister's election, to make bets, that's not at all interesting to us as MPs who want to discuss it. If you've already come to the fact that you can't wait to get out of the Official Messenger, because your legal deadlines are who they are, then you're really wrong, but here you're asking what you've been doing wisely for the past month. The promoter says – significant results have been achieved from the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is not the fault that foreigners have become owners of our agricultural combinations and tycoons are owners of large enterprises. Another terrible lie. The mayor of Belgrade and, as announced, the head of the cabinet, Sinisa Mali, has been appointed as a Privatisation Minister for the Ministry of Privatisation in the government of the Republic of Serbia since February 2001. At the end of 2001, after the establishment of the Privatisation Agency, on 17 July he moved to work, where he became Director of the Centre for tender auction privatisation, market and capital restructuring and remains at the post until the end of 2003, which means that he was precisely when the former DS, DOS, whatever you call it, was now in your ranks just taking part in the robbery privatisation. Next, when you talk about the agriculture ministry's successes, what about the raspberries? We have had the opportunity these days to hear Minister Nedimovic say the state is unable to help. He's told another notorious lie, and today the pronoun here is false. Why? Because the ice-colding agreement is illegal and sanctioned by the Criminal Code with a criminal act the conclusion of restrictive agreements. And how the state can react. And so the ministry can react, but unfortunately, the minister in this government, the SNS government, has decided to protect the tycoons. I would remind you that just as SNS leaders in 2001, Marko Đuric and SNS Dzeletovic's Economic Council said that the strategy was ready, they were receiving raspberries, they were calling for protests in Belgrade, they were attacking the police then and the country that is responding, what is being protested here, and a step further went by today's president in 2001, Aleksandar Vucic, who put out an even complete strategy to address the problem, how to improve production, how to export raspberries, etc. Today it is you who drove away the common peasant and protected the tycoons and all those who were so publicly attacked until you entered power and changed from the previous regime at all, and here I support the MP who said that you had just taken over the ideology of DOS. When he speaks about the Ministry of European Integration, he says – this is a strategic and political goal, and while explaining the reasons for the formation of the ministry, we actually had the opportunity to follow a speaker who time represented some kind of press clipping in the opening of various chapters. It is an interesting fact that just a few years ago, in 2012, the proponent of the Declaration on the termination of all government activities on Serbia's accession to the EU with a clear explanation that was not difficult to defend. At the press conference, Mr Martinovic stands out, I quote -- there is no end to EU blackmail towards Serbia, a new condition is normalisation of relations with Kosovo, and that means independence, the next is Raska, so Vojvodina. The European Union is in financial and economic terms, I repeat, in economic and financial terms, to what you are constantly calling for, a corpse and only a political blind man can insist that Serbia become a member of such an organisation. We can talk to Albanian representatives on condition that he is not on the negotiating team, Hashim Thaci, and only on the model and degree of autonomy. The Brussels negotiations represent the treading of the Constitution and Resolution 1244. Each one was true and in place. Today the promoter is speaking the opposite and of course we can't trust him. The proposer says further -- it is important to continue the policy that leads Serbia to the EU, as well as to continue the policy that has been implemented since 2014, so it says, among other things, the increase in wages and pensions. First, politics continues since 2012, when the proposing party took Mladjan Dinkic's coalition partner, according to Aleksandar Vukic, the biggest thief and criminal, and promised Serbian citizens that as soon as they took power in Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic would be arrested. Mr. Martinovic, why didn't you arrest Mladjan Dinkic? Where's Miskovic, where's Cane Saturday? You told the public that the SNS was formed from the money of the tobacco mafia. You've exposed this affair, and I absolutely support you. You've been attacking the EU here. Where did this transformation come from today? What's with the cynical smile?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17507	Talk to me, MP. Respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17508	On the other hand, when he spoke as a promoter, it is interesting that he expressed all possible views and ministries that should be organised, and he did not mention KIM in any word, but therefore mentioned that he was even the deputy secretary of the NATO Pact at the inauguration. Well, of course the man's here. He came to see his work of art he did in 1999, to see if you were still obedient, to see if you'd finish the work you started. On the other hand, you are calling for the president of the northern Serbian Parliament, the province, and you have not called for the south. Why is it that when you shake hands with Hashim Thaci so warmly in Brussels and tomorrow you'll have Haradinaj when he makes power? You have also stated, and I fully support today's exposure, that the SAA is a very bad decision, and that's when you attacked Tomislav, the promoter attacked Tomislav Nikolic when he left because of the SAA, as he was then saying, because of that, the SRS, and it took one-sided application. On the other hand, you say today – it is the government's fault and some government of the dosmanium. Here, we can agree, but why don't you put that SAA out of force once already, if it's no good? You absolutely have our support. As long as it lasted, I was present all day, the promoter himself did not dedicate, from three hours, as he spoke, not five minutes on the agenda point, but he was reading various unsolved murders, SMS messages, quotes, and he forgot the main quote, which is that right now, I will have to as a promoter, that just as his party president said – nor can God force me into the government with the SPS, Dacic is a convicted liar and thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17509	So, nothing on the bill. Just to make the citizens understand your way of expression, dil, that means the deal, I mean, I don't explain to you, and the fuss, it means crowd. Just for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to understand you. I don't think the citizens of Serbia understood the parts of your exposure. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17510	Let's go like this, since there have been various issues, strange comments on SNS, the government led by Aleksandar Vukic and agriculture. A list of good things, good results are really long. Here, just a few short copies. For example, that registration of new export facilities has contributed to a steady increase in export values of 2.9 billion euros in 2016 and surpluses of close to 1.6, increased by 600 million since 2014, the result of those governments, which some seem to be unclear whether they helped domestic agriculture. Let's move on. That for the first time Serbia is able to export to the China market and is expected to continue exporting with a new set of products already this year, also, the government for which some are not clear whether it helps agriculture. Furthermore, the Ministry's budget for 2017 is 43,778 billion, which is an increase of 8.11% compared to the previous year, which has been better compared to the previous and all since 2012, i.e. in 2014 here, which is precisely the government for which some are not clear. That the budget for supporting investments in agriculture was increased more than four times, then that there were 300,000 farms and more than 150 small and medium-sized milk farmers who were saved from the collapse precisely thanks to that government, etc. So, the citizens of Serbia know, as they know, that when we talk about tycoons, this government also takes Miskovic to justice, that this government in KIM has the greatest support, that Sinisa Mali was the best candidate for mayor and the best mayor was, which is what someone is particularly interested in, and that this government, not Alexander Vukic himself, are never unlike those they were obsessed with or talked about loving the EU, so they changed their minds five seconds later, nor offered America to volunteer in Kuwait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17511	Time. Thank you. The word is made by the MPs of the people Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17512	Madam President, you violated article 27 and 107 after my fellow MP, Miljan Damjanovic. In fact, you know very well as an experienced parliamentarian, from the first call of the multi-party MPs you were, that free interpretation and expression of MPs is a style or way of addressing the sovereignly elected representative of the public to the electoral body, to the citizens, whatever. There was no need for you to further explain, after such a well-conceived, clearly-founded, reasoned speech by young counterpart Damjanovic, that he is using these or those words, especially because of an educated young man, who is 35 years old, a graduate economist and master engineer of organisational sciences, a candidate for Belgrade mayor in front of the SRS. Every future presentation of it, as well as my fellow MPs from the parliamentary group, is understood as a way and a goal that everyone, like this law proposed by Aleksandar Martinovic, is challenged by very clear arguments, established and ultimately, both in this Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and in the applicable laws. Since time doesn't allow me to look back on what my colleague said in that part, and you didn't consider it a good lesson, but you'll understand, it might be too late then, and I'll talk about it in the follow-up session, especially on Monday. So, I would ask you, indeed, as someone who's also been here for a long time with you in Parliament, that there is no need, especially from the chair, to explain in any way and to insist that someone, only if you don't like criticism, has used this word or that word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17513	Time. Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I used the right of Article 107 to take care of Parliament's dignity, and I think the use of the tent language threatens the dignity of this high, respected home. I didn't go into the exposure content. This is an explanation. You'd better hold on to that. I am willing to discuss the purity of the Serbian language at any moment. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17514	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, all day long has passed, night has come, and here are the same topics in the circle. At least today we talked about the agenda point, the amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. I'm going to say a few things on the subject at the beginning of my presentation, but I'm going to have to answer to colleagues who have made many lies and many lies tonight. (Zoran Krasic: Theme. ( ) It is good that some are now calling on the subject, even though we haven’t heard a word about it from them. But let's get back to the subject, as they say. Serbia will invest around 10 billion euros in the development of water supply, waste water treatment, municipal, industrial waste management, air quality and land, but will prepare and adapt to the challenges caused by climate change, including drought, floods, fires and other disasters. As a government, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic, who will support the future government to be led by Mrs Ana Brnabic, we have prepared a clear plan for achieving the technical, financial and human capacities necessary for the implementation of these investments. I must also say that in 2014, in May, we faced 2,000 abandoned projects of the former environmental fund worth hundreds of millions of euros, abolished EU funding for infrastructure through pre-accession funds, a constant lack of quality and mature infrastructure projects for financing, chaotic preparation and the uncertain outcome of negotiations with the EU on Chapter 27 – the environment and climate change. Today, after nearly three years, we have made a significant shift towards introducing order and vision of further strategic development into the environment. Almost 1,000 former fund projects have been solved. A Green Fund has been created that will not repeat any errors of the former, corruption and non-strategic fund. A lot of things my colleagues, my predecessors, said when it came to environmental protection. It's a very important topic for every citizen, it's important for Serbia, it's important for the planet we live on. When it comes to European integration and the Office led by Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic, which is still being led, and the new ministry, which will be convinced by the support of most MPs, that is something that is good, is a confirmation of the foundation, of the consolidation of our European pathway. We also said that the office headed by Mrs Joksimovic and the Serbian government led by Aleksandar Vukic has made significant moves on the path of Serbia's European integration. Chapters have been opened and chapters have been closed, and for those who are full of Europe's mouth tonight, but without any proposals or solutions to constructive ones, they have not opened any chapters on the way to European integration. It was just a story, just a mantra, just a show for the citizens, and at the end of every play, the citizens were empty pockets. As the action "Let's Clean Serbia" was only aimed at clearing the pockets of Serbian citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia lead to bankruptcy. As someone who is also a councilor in the Belgrade City Assembly, I must allow myself to say this to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who watch this transmission, in front of the MPs, that the absolute mayor of Sinisha Mali is the best mayor in Belgrade's history, convincingly the best, and for that we have concrete facts about it, and that until the arrival of Sinisha Mali in Belgrade, you did not have 10 sites. Today you have over 500 construction sites. Today you have a project of importance for development, not only of the city, but also of Serbia, such as "Belgrade on Water". You had a deficit in the city's budget of over 20%, today it's below 4%. Then, you have a stabilisation of the city of Belgrade's finances, where the city has all its obligations in orderly financing and service. Then, tourism in Belgrade... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17515	A colleague of Filipovic's, it's about the Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17516	These are all the topics my predecessors mentioned. I simply, as someone who is a citizen, have the duty to tell the citizens that what is said today is not true and how easily people here say it. There's no doubt there won't be any more city watch, there won't be a model, there won't be a replica of Theasia, a replica of life. I am convinced that even after this debate, such a proposal to amend and supplement the law will be adopted and that in the end, when we choose Ana Brnabic as Serbian Prime Minister, we will continue even faster, even stronger, even better in the future all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17517	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, but the time of her parliamentary group has been spent. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17518	Thank you, Chairman. Today we have a proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry Act that we can say consists of two parts. One part is the formation of a new two ministry, and the other part is the transfer of competence, namely the precise definition of the work of certain ministries, especially when it comes to certain public enterprises in the field of energy, the part relating to concessions, the part relating to the regulation of judicial profession and the part relating to the true role of civilians in multinational operations. What we should say today is that we have had the opportunity to hear from several aspects of a certain conviction and criticise this proposal to form two new ministries. Under certain ideas, the SNS has taken over a particular DOS ideology, which of course cuts with common sense, as it has never advocated that the environmental protection area is being managed in such a way that it is given out of Serbia's budget, under the form of "Clear Serbia", over a billion dinars, which is about eightm euros in the NGO sector to be used for political campaigns in the elections. It has never happened that over the past five years we have had the use of funds to support certain recyclings in such a way that they are given for certain loans from business banks, for the sake of keeping you in debt, and that they simply ask the state and make debts that would go into public debt. The SNS would never allow us to create missed projects and realise the credits of any international organisation. What we have been dealing with since 2012 is, above all, to introduce realistic, rational and reasonable funding of projects with which Serbian citizens will have benefits in terms of healthy life, and especially when it comes to air, when it comes to land, when it comes to water, and therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection must be, above all, because of European integration and implementation of the process of bilateral and exploiting screenings, at one point together, and this is a confirmation, especially when it comes to negotiating chapters related to Chapters 27, which are chapters 10, 11 and 12, related to agriculture, related to the production of healthy food. So it can't go apart from the chapters that are related to environmental protection. What SNS and Mr. Vukic were dealing with, when he took over the government of the Republic of Serbia, is that in a certain way he created financial conditions and mechanisms in order to simply have a sustainable functioning of the area of environmental protection. This was not possible in 2012 when economic growth, i.e. the decline in GDP and overall social product and all business activities was minus 3.6%, but now that we have a 1.2% increase in GDP, it is possible that now that we have stable finances, we can create conditions for the environment ministry to function separately. The truth is, Serbian citizens should know that the environment ministry has never been special before, even at the time of Mr Dulic. It was along with the Ministry of Construction and Environmental Protection. So, it's a construction ministry, but primarily by protecting the environment, as a younger brother in terms of the work cycle that was supposed to be used to fund non-rational projects, so it took 2,000 projects to assess and see how much you owe, as a state, to certain financial seekers, and that there really are real grounds for that. That is why it was also necessary to expose itself to the IMF, both Diardia and the World Bank, what was done by 2012. You have had the opportunity, from my colleague, to hear that many NGOs in a magical way received certain funds that were simply not, at all, a topic in the field of environmental protection. What is now happening for the first time, from 2016 until now, is that a strategy, a plan and a programme has been made that has been adopted by the EU, where for the first time since the negative assessments in the EU's reports, we are getting positive shifts and we are getting a virtually open road for the opening of Chapter 27, which is one of the most difficult chapters and of course we all know and which will cost a lot, not only Serbia, but also cost all the countries in the region. But certain standards in the field of environmental protection must exist, business, private sector and state sector companies must operate according to the standards they design, simply and budgeted by the protection of the environment, and that is what our obligation is, but also the desired fund that was so discussed was eventually formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He's budgetary, he's not as independent as he was back in 2012. What's important is that we complete the procedure for preparing the negotiating chapter when it comes to scrinnings. That was a big deal. The negotiating group, which was also part of the ministry's work without a portfolio for European integration, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic, has indeed made a great effort when it comes to this area, but also by the ministry itself, which was supported by agriculture, has shown that the time has come for a ministry to be formed like this, that it will have no problems in its work and will give full results when such a ministry is formed. What should be said is that a large number of problematic projects that have started in this period have been completed, such as the Regional Centre in Subotica, such as the completion of the project related to the construction of collectors, the resolution of wastewater issues in Leskovac and Raskoj, but also the part relating to the strategy that was written by 2012, that there should be 27 regional dumps for which there is simply no amount of waste, in order to function in a sustainable and cost-effective way. Therefore, it is important that when you define policy for the next 25 years to be realistic, you define that you have sustainable funding and that in a certain way all groups, all target groups in the Republic of Serbia feel the benefits of such a policy. That is why, in general, the need for the environment ministry to now form and fully justified why it has so far been unable to be independent in a functional sense sustainable. When we talk about the ministry of European integration and by formation, as a special sector in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which in the future will be led by Mrs Ana Brnabic, or just the ministry, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic, it should be said that it is one positive light in which we want to and that as a Republic of Serbia we show that we are really for achieving strategic goals towards the EU, but we should also say that we have never hidden it, nor lied about certain strategic goals, when it comes to respect for all our obligations and with the Russian Federation, that we should do so, we have never hidden it against the EU either. It is normal for certain chapters to be defined by the EU membership itself and that this is simply our policy, the national policy that we all need to talk about. What is important is to say that two-thirds of the total investment by companies in Serbia in 2016 came from companies and companies from EU countries, that two-thirds of Serbia's foreign trade is performing exclusively with EU countries and that is something that should not be covered. That is why those who say we should break up even relations with the EU should tell Serbian citizens how much it would cost all of us together and all those who have an area of employment. When we talk about the transfer of jurisdiction, we should say that what has been asked today, as a major issue, for the abolition of the E-Government and Directorate, should be notified to the citizens of Serbia, that this government that is coming to us and will be doing a big job when it comes to E-Government, will rise to an entirely higher level. The higher level will be the formation of a new service within the framework of the functioning of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which should give better communication with all citizens of Serbia, and based on the introduction of new technologies, in general, in a system of functioning so-called. E-gavament platforms. Therefore, in Voting Day, we will also have the opportunity to support this concept of government, with new ministries and new powers, but we will also have opportunities in Ms. Ana Brnabic's exposé to hear what it will look like. For that reason, in voting day, I will support a motion like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17519	Thank you. The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word. He's not here. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17520	I thank you, Chairman. Given that the mandated representative of the SPS, our friend Djordje Milicevic, pointed out that the SPS, or our parliamentary club, will unreservedly support the amendments and additions of the Ministry Act, can only confirm that position and at the outset state the fact that I will not, in my discussion, become too attached to what my colleagues will point out in their discussion, and these are the facts that justify the amendments and additions of this Law, when it comes to introducing a new ministry, which is the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In this discussion, I will look more closely at the reasons that justify the formation of a new ministry, which is the European Integration Ministry. Serbia's Euro-integration path is primarily of state interest and it has been confirmed through two facts, the first fact is that Serbia is already going through a successful reform process, and that in terms of harmonising the Serbian state's legislation with EU legislation, as well as with regard to all other processes that occur, both in the economy and in science and in education and in health. So everywhere the state of Serbia appears as someone who is a respectable candidate for EU membership. The second fact is an indisputable fact, which is that the European Union is Serbia's most important trading, investment partner, and thus an economic stability factor. When I say a partner of the European Union, I think first of all about the Member States of the European Union, and today the legislator, Mr Martinovic, has spoken of it, which has presented a number of data, verifiable of course, statistically verifiable, which is precisely about the external trade exchange between the European Union and the state of Serbia. What is very important to point out, and this is what we have also touched in the discussion today, is the fact that this Assembly, has confirmed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, that the confirmation of that same Agreement with Serbia was followed up with the procedure for verifying that same Agreement in the European Union's Parliaments and that the European Parliament subsequently confirmed that the Agreement which entered into force on 1 September 2013. What does that mean? This means that just by signing this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Serbia has also taken on certain obligations, and these obligations are exactly what we are doing today – adapting everything that provides a simpler, more relaxed way to join the EU. Of course, for the sake of citizens, it should be pointed out that the state of Serbia is leading a wise policy and this government will continue this policy, which means that we are at the same time growing, maintaining and maintaining extremely good, friendly and brotherly relations with Russia, a country that is unreservedly helping us, a country of friends, to which we can always rely. As for the amendments and additions to this law, one more fact needs to be pointed out. Today, we have not touched on these facts, and this is a new jurisdiction that is being established in relation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, among other things, must be pointed out to be extremely successful, because it is through this ministry that something that has already been present for a long time, which is the protection of the interests of the Serbian state. What is it about this ministry's newspaper and jurisdiction? First of all, it is the organisation of civil society and civil society participation in multinational operations, because it is the structures of civil society that we can freely say, the reservoir of civil expertise and that civil society is providing professional support to state institutions while creating a security policy. It is good that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also have this new jurisdiction as part of its competence. The second role played by civil society organisations is to monitor the application of the security policy. This is particularly important because of civil sector participation in peace agreements, because peace operations today are something that includes and how important a place where the state of Serbia finds itself, where the state of Serbia wants to participate, where the state of Serbia and through the civil sector has a significant role to play. The reminders of, as early as 1982, humanitarian activities in the Congo were also significant, where our country, then Yugoslavia, also found its place. Today, these humanitarian activities and manifestations are needed in many parts of the world, especially in Syria, in the city of Aleppo, a city that is a city of perilousness, a city in which the people cry out for help. Reminders for the sake of Russia, our brotherly state, have urged Serbia to participate in humanitarian activities. On the one hand, there is a kind of bit of absurdity, that the country of Syria as a state that supported Serbia in its efforts to prevent Kosovo from entering UNESCO, voted in favour of Serbia and voted against Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. Unfortunately, we have imposed sanctions on that same Syria, or we have joined the sanctions imposed by the European Union. This is not because it is the wish of the Serbian state, but because Serbia's policy is such that it participates only in UN and EU peacekeeping missions. By agreeing with the policy of the European Union and the United Nations, we have established this concept and we are maintaining this concept. Why am I saying this? It is solely because I believe that in this part of the amendments and additions to the Ministry Act deserve attention. Finally, I would just like to point out that the expectation of the SPS is that, when we are talking about amendments and additions to the law, which refer to the area of the judiciary, you might consider that legal bankruptcy is finally returned to where that regulatory place is, and that is the Ministry of Justice, and in no case is the Ministry of Justice, given that the heart of bankruptcy is a commercial judiciary, given the fact that commercial courts are largely engaged in bankruptcy and that they address the issue of bankruptcy to the greatest extent, ultimately, their decisions. Finally, on behalf of the SPS and our Parliament Club, I would like to point out once again that we will support this legislative act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17521	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17522	At first, I would just draw attention to the fact that when this set was in power, the coalition government came in 2012, the first thing they did was to pass a new Ministry Act. This was published in the “Official Messenger ” No. 72/12/12, and then they changed it, 76/13, and then the Constitutional Court made a decision declaring it and found that one member of the law was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then, under the rise of great anxiety, a new Ministry Act was issued in 44/2014. And he was changed three times in 2015. So the same coalition, same target, same distance. What happened in the meantime? Let me remind you something, since I know you're forgetting quickly. In the National Assembly, we had the exclusive right to listen twice to Kostunica with an exposé because he was twice the Prime Minister. Mirko Cvetkovic has also submitted the exhibits twice and has twice been Prime Minister. Ivica Dacic has suffered exposure twice and has twice been Prime Minister. And we had another one that had suffered exposé twice and was the Prime Minister twice. So, you see, it's a duality, it's something that appears as a rule. I would now draw everyone's attention that he remains a member of the first law that is still in force today, which reads: "This law educates ministries and special organisations and determines their work. Specific organisations can be educated and their work may also be established by special laws." When you discuss the dialectics, you will see that even in the existing law, and nothing more significant will change with these changes and additions, with many ministries, the authorities of the administration are left out as part of the ministry, and in particular special organisations have been left out. These are former administrative organizations. I expected that it would finally be settled, because the Ministry Act is one of the first regulations to be notified to the public to which the ministry should be addressed for a question. It's not jurisdiction, it's a group of jobs being done in a ministry. However, however you define both activity and competence, you must bear in mind that the authorities of the state administration are part of the executive authority of the Republic of Serbia and that they deal exclusively with administrative affairs. I'm not going to open the subject right now, when it comes to amendments, we're going to talk more about it, but by definition these jobs are business dealing with the administrative procedure, the inspection supervision, and the question is for these other jobs, like aging and other things, if it can be put into this. But I am aware of the situation as our regulations are passed that define the ministries. What's important about this law? It is important that in the reasons why changes are proposed and complemented there is not a single word heard in the public why this law is amended. The public says -- the number of ministries is increasing, coalition capacities should be met. It is the right of coalition partners. But even when they meet these coalition partners, according to the system of composing ministries or determining their work, then they have to take care of something that is similar, approximately and makes a functioning continent, because the ministry is also an organization, but it fills the so-called. functional performance. Both the organization and the functional activity of a particular authority of the administration are in unity, have some dialectics and have some of their dynamics, but, above all, their content defines material rights. You see, we now have one thing to talk about today, which is the education of the European Integration Ministry. I think someone had to punish the promoter first. Serbia has been in European integration since it began. We integrate with both the Russians and the Norwegians and the Turks, we're in some form of co-operation. But here it is thought of the European Union and here someone wants to deceive the public in Serbia and say – European integration is only integration into the European Union. For example, I prefer Europe to be integrated by a system of great confederacy in which the European Union's loose confederate, a stable confederate of the Russian Federation and a beautiful great Serbia would be. If you're guaranteeing it by this formulation, we might as well accept it. The problem with this ministry is how to define administrative work. How would the ministry solve individual rights and obligations of citizens in the work of European integration, when we do not have such a law? In order for the ministry to pass, let's say, a regulation, an order or instruction, when the legal basis for it should be some law, and we in no law have any provision on individual rights of citizens and legal persons. Very problematic. Obviously, it's just for advertising. In the end, just to draw your attention, there's something in the definition. There are several sources of power. The first most important source of power is money – who has money, he has power, the second source of power is a person who claims to be a leader and third source of power is an organization of state administration. Now, we are within this agenda point at the redistribution of power within the organization of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17523	Thank you. The word is Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17524	Thank you very much. In a few days, the government will be elected, the government that will be both old and new. It's old for the policy it's going to implement, so it's the government of continuity, and it's new only by composition. What precedes when one government is formed is the adoption of the Law on Government and the Law on Ministrys which aim to make those who make a government make up such an organisation of ministries and state administrations that will be able to implement the government's policy in the most efficient way possible. In this case, we do not have a new choice of government and ministries, the Law on the Selection of Governments and Ministries, we in this case have amendments to the Ministry Act and they can, as I say, be divided into four parts. First, two new ministries, the environment ministry and the European Integration Ministry are being introduced. Secondly, new jobs or new competencies are added to the two ministries, which are the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In three ministries, short but significant changes in the matter of redistribution of responsibilities and jobs with the ministries are related to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Trade and Telecommunications. The fourth feature is that two authorities, the European Integration Office and the Electronic Administration Directorate are being abolished. It's about somewhere in the contents. Very briefly, noting that the authorised representative and my colleagues have already given a clear view of the SPS as proposed by these laws. Just to repeat that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments to the Ministry Act. The first change in the new ministries concerns the establishment of a ministry of environmental protection. I must say, environmental protection has always been covered as an area, but in different ways. This time, those who make the government go after the proposal to form a special ministry for environmental protection, and I want to give full support to this proposal. Why? First, if there is a large number of problems facing Serbia in this area, given that man is referring to environmental protection as well as to health, it is only when he loses it, if he has in mind that on our path to the European Union this is one important area and where we have significant and complex obligations, it is very important that the special ministry deals with these issues. All we have to say is, we have a relatively good legal basis for that kind of legislation. The problem is implementation, the problem is that we need projects, resources, action plans. We need time and a plan to get there. This huge job because of the world, and above all because of the importance of preserving the environment, it has to do with the quality of life of people and health. There are many reasons for this ministry, which covers an important social area, to be formed as a special ministry. The second ministry proposed here as a new ministry is the European Integration Ministry. I repeat, that area was covered in another way. So this is just about wanting to raise itself to the level of the special ministry of jobs that are waiting for us when it comes to European integration. Let's be clear right now. The Serbian government's strategic commitment is to slowly prepare itself, to slowly adopt standards to join the European Union. It's no secret. On that road, of course, there's a lot of work, a lot of challenges. So far, we have opened ten chapters, two temporarily closed, we have a lot of work to do in the area, and in order to achieve this, not because of the European Union, we need this path to take over, to reach those standards, this better life in Serbia by European Union standards, so we are going towards that goal, taking care of national state interests. Of course, in addition to that, our interest is to preserve good relations, good co-operation with both Russia and China and America and all others. This is a strategic definition that involves greater obligations on the way to it, means a lot of work when it comes to communication with the European Union and means a lot of work when it comes to co-ordination within Serbia's authorities. There is therefore very much reason to form a special ministry for European integration. Very short when it comes to new responsibilities, but my colleague said, there is a significant one competence that is added so to say, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and these are new responsibilities in terms of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance and in terms of providing civilian participation in a multinational operation... to create a legal basis, to create action plans, to address in one institutional way the very important issues Serbia has in this area. Finally, once again, Serbia's parliamentary party will support amendments and additions to the proposed Ministry Law, and I apologize for only talking about the agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17525	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. He's not here. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the Serbian Radical Party never deal with demagogue when we talk about proposals for laws that are being adopted here, and that is why we haven't talked today about the number of ministries in terms of whether there should be more or less. We represent the position that one who is the assembly majority is responsible for what he does, including the number of ministries, the choice of ministers, competences, etc. But here, something has to be said because of the specificity of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act and my question is, today no one has answered that question from those who will vote for this law – what does Ana Brnabic say about this bill? I guess that's the most important thing, she's a woman who's been assigned to the mandate, and she should probably tell us if she really wants a new ministry, whether she wants someone else, and that's not who they're supposed to be, because she's going to have some concept of work, some exposés, etc. These are only assumptions, of course, and we know that this is not the case, because it is a fundamental problem, and when it comes to the assembly majority and future government and future Prime Minister, this problem has its own name and last name and is called Aleksandar Vukic. Alexander Vukic informed the public several days ago that we would have new ministries, that we would have an environmental ministry. He said Vujovic would continue to remain minister and that is something that is absolutely the opposite of both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and parliamentary practice and democratic principles. Vucic could as president of the state speak to representatives of the parties in parliament and that he who tells him he has the parliamentary majority would appoint him as the prime minister. In this case we thought it was Ana Brnabić, but after a few days it turned out that she doesn't actually have a congregation majority, and then Vukic collects the congregation majority, holds a meeting of his party, etc. It is something that only shows that what has been done in public for a long time, that Vukic will also serve as Prime Minister and that he is indeed Ana Brnabic there will only be someone who will listen and fulfill his orders. Why did these new ministries happen? Of course it's the result of your coalition agreements, or blackmail, etc. You remember sometimes, and many of you were against it when the first Deputy Prime Minister was introduced against the constitution, so the Deputy Prime Minister was introduced, also counter-constitutionally. Now, Vucic announces to us the Prime Minister who could be baptized as one soul, two bodies. One will deal with politics, the other will deal with the economy, and the president will be just someone named Ana Brnabic. It's pretty confusing, but we'll talk about it when we talk about it and listen to the exposés of Ana Brnabic, because it's often heard here that representatives of the ruling parties say that someone can go ahead and say they're going to be against Ana Brnabic, and they haven't heard her exposés, so in the same way that someone says in advance it's going to be for her government, and they haven't heard her exposés. We have mentioned here the Ministry of Agriculture as characteristic, given that there will now be a change in the organisation and jurisdiction of this ministry because of the separation of the Ministry of Environment, that is, the protection of the environment, and then many MPs have spoken about this ministry today, and then the representatives of the regime mention the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as something that is very bad and something that our peasants and our economy are suffering, and it is all true, but we are asking the question – what was it that bothered the representatives of the current regime, the Vucic regime, to deal with this SAA and to put it out of force as a consequence of Tadic's regime's policy. But it's just like those in Tadic's regime say -- these Vucicians signed the Brussels agreements, and they didn't do it, and essentially they prepared the terrain for them to end up doing it. So it's done and it's confirmed that your policy is exactly the same and that what you're arguing about in the Assembly is actually just showing that you're both right. I find it interesting that today one of the representatives of the ruling majority spoke about Kosovo and Metohija, about MPs of the so-called Serbian List, who are to remind us in the Shiparian parliament, but he spoke about the AP Kosovo and Metohija parliament, and I am only interested in the law there to call it the AP Parliament of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, these are the Cypriot elections held under the constitution and the law of the false state of Kosovo. Let's get back to the Department of Agriculture. Miljan Damjanovic also mentioned the problem of raspberries and raspberries, which are currently current and we remind the Minister of the current, technical, and above all the prosecution that the coolants in Valjevo had concluded an agreement ten days ago, where they had committed that no one would pay the raspberries more than 120 dinars and that they had even attached the bonds as evidence, or as a guarantee that no one could pay the raspberries anymore, and they committed a criminal act, because they had concluded a restrictive agreement. Of course, a commission that deals with competition and protection of competition does nothing on this plan, and certainly it would have something to do and we want to say that public authorities can protect peasants, but you won't do it because you don't care. All the representatives of the ruling regime when they spoke about this item of the agenda began with their impressions of last night's event, which really concerns me, is Alexander Vukic's private party. They boasted about who was there, there were about 5,000 people, but they were mostly the financing officers of the Serbian Progressive Party, there were only 50 people who were representatives of foreign states, of course, who were the unforgiving Jelena Milic and Sonja Biserko. No one will boast, and since you boast of some great names as friends of the Vucicians, my main impression is indeed the deputy secretary of state, it doesn't matter which countries, it's important the level that was in your guests last night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17527	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17528	The fact that guests are inauguration, as we heard it, SNS finance, best be explained by whoever told those people to whom he told. For example, when he's in contact with officials of the Russian Federation, let him explain that Mr. Rogozin is a SNS financier. I am very interested in how it will sound or, for example, when and if he is in contact with representatives of the People's Republic of China, whether they are the financials of the party. I'm very curious about how it's going to sound and let's keep it a problem for those who said it. Whether or not the government is a soul, a body, what we've already heard, the government, ladies and gentlemen, is a team and it's only right and only logical if we want things to work properly. A teamwork that was just established by Alexander Vukic, and today so mentioned. Again, I understand the fascination of someone who has 4% of the vote vote, he can't reach his 56% with his eye. He can only see for himself what was happening in Serbia, which has been the reality in Serbia since 2014 of the first government led by Aleksandar Vukic, until today. When teamwork is done and people who know business do it, and they care about the state, well, then there are results. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, of course, is not abolished, because European integration is our country's strategic commitment, but the good news for those who care about the governments of Alexander Vukic has found solutions to removing the adverse consequences and one of the solutions will be a law that will not be allowed as accurate, which was the merit of the Dossovo regime in its own time. It will not be possible for our agricultural land to be sold without any control. About what the final solution looks like you'll see very soon. That politics is the same, or not the same, is enough all they had to say on the subject were citizens, but one note on my part, although I do know that there is one in the campaign, one who hopes to become mayor of Belgrade, that he is less engaged in Synish Mali. I think he bit a target he can't swallow. With Cynthia Mali to compare, that's ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17529	Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17530	Thank God, we have a mayoral candidate who has no intention of comparing himself with Cynthia Mali by much. As for your relationship with the Russian Federation and with China, don't transfer us. We've been precise and clear since when there's an SRS that we support this co-operation, that we want to. Today you've told us that this kind of cooperation with Russia is impossible so that we would like to, and you know very well that when I spoke about these guests, I didn't mean representatives of Russia or China. They certainly respect our respect wherever they are and anyone who invites them to their guests, as far as that goes, in that part of our support. As for the percentage, as much as anyone had the percentage, you know, you could count yourself in enthusiasm, to calculate the Wolf 102%, and it doesn't matter how many percent. I remember well when there were both Vukic and others sitting there today, comparing some notorious historical figures with some who then won a large number of votes. Of course, I don't want to say it, but 99.9% of the vote Vukic that he's got, it doesn't give him the right to interfere in this way with the government's work. I explained nicely by the Constitution and the law what he could do and what he could do as president of the state. What you're listening to, it's your choice, but he can't demonstrate it, he can't show it so arrogantly -- here, I know who's going to be the minister, here, I know which one's going to be the ministry. I don't care what he says about the man he's assigned to office, he doesn't care what you say and I'm talking about the authority of the president of the state, and we're going to be talking about percentages some other time after the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17531	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time, I hear that someone who won 56% of the vote must not be concerned with politics and must not put out political views and that, if the President of the Republic is not allowed to deliver his opinion on how the government should function and express its opinion on whether its place should also be found in this government by environmental ministers and for European integration. The President of the Republic represents the country, i.e. the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. So it represents the Republic of Serbia and the country. The presentation of the Republic of Serbia in the country does not in any way restrict the president of the Republic to politics, because he is a couple of excellencies political personality. He has an even higher degree of political legitimacy compared to even the MPs, because we are all selected from some lists, and he was elected by name and last name. So, in political theory, it is unrecorded that you are taking someone's right to deal with politics, to say that they will be an ally of the government, to express their opinion on what kind of policy the government should lead, and in the elections they won an absolute majority of the vote. So it's something that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. I've already set an example today. The current French president has won it seems to me to be about 32%, 33% of the vote. Behind him is a candidate who won 24% of the vote. All the French media have announced that it is the historic victory of Emmanuel Macron. Here, the Maltena Wolf can't even say that he won 56% of the vote. In Serbia alone, it doesn't matter how many votes you win. In Serbia alone, it is one irrelevant piece of information, as well as how important it is. The greater political weight, the higher level of political legitimacy, has the one who won 56% of the votes, than the one who won 1%, 2%, 4%, 5% or 16%. Alexander Vukitch didn't treat anyone as far as I can see. He listened to the opinion of everyone who wanted to come to the presidency to talk to him. When he found out that there was a majority to elect a new government, he entrusted the mandate to Mrs. Ana Brnabic and then set out to hunt Alexander Vukic and then he went to the hunt for Ana Brnabic. We think it's a hack that's completely unnecessary, that she's politically extremely incorrect. In Serbia, in fact, it is led by certain political parties, but the political parties are less, because they are weak and weak, but more by individual media, about the same policy that is being led in the United States towards Donald Trump. That's where they won't let a man breathe. The man won the election and today he's convinced him that he actually lost in the election. The same situation is here in Serbia. Alexander Vukic won 56% of the vote and today he is convinced – no, you actually lost the election, we won 1%, 2%, 4%, etc. It's the same situation in America. Whatever Donald Trump is, there's a media octopus around his neck that won't let a man breathe and convinces him that he's not actually the President of the United States and that it's only a matter of days when he's going to get off that post. We don't have these dilemmas in SNS. Aleksandar Vukic received the absolute trust of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens trust him. He entrusted the government's mandate, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with Mrs. Ani Brnabic and we will have a debate next week in the National Assembly on what kind of government should be, what its programme is and what its composition is. But for the first time I hear that there is a country where the President of the Republic wins 56% of the votes and then it is said to him – well, now you go to the wax museum, you must not speak a single word of politics, you must not speak a single word of government policy, even though you are part of the executive government, because by the Constitution we have a bicephal executive power, one branch of the executive authority makes the President of the Republic, another branch makes the Government, but the fact that you won 56% of the votes, as far as we are concerned, go to the museum, you must not speak a single word of the National Assembly, not a single word about the Government and shame, and anything that you have organized a solemn reception in the Palace of Serbia, and any shame that came at the reception ceremony, and Dimitri Rogozin and vice-president of the General National Congress, which all the President of the Republic, namely the Prime Ministerial Government from Slovenia to Macedonia. This is where one genius says this morning - there were only two presidents. I've seen three of them in my eyes. I've seen Borut Pahor, I've seen the president of Croatia, and I've seen the president of Macedonia, George Ivanov. That's three. Here, Marian Risticevic says we saw Dodik. That's the fourth. Have we seen Izetbegovic, Marian? So we've seen all the leaders from the region. If someone does not understand that it is a message to Serbia to lead a proper and good policy, that countries in Europe and the world respect it, that we are a free and independent country, that we are no one's colony, to lead only one, a Serbian policy, not to sit on two or three chairs, but in one, a Serbian chair, then it can really only be said by people who, I think, are either politically malicious towards Alexander Vukic, which I can kind of understand, or have a reluctance towards their own country, which I really can't understand. What happened to Alexander Vukic's hand yesterday, so that's the success of all Serbian citizens. It's the success of all of us. It is also a success for those of you who make fun of it, for you also live in this land. After all, you who speak of Alexander Vukic as a dictator, you who speak of Alexander Vukic as a arrogant man, today I listened to one MP, probably wanted to provoke me, or I don't know what to do, came to you, says, Deputy Secretary-General of NATO Pact, you're laying down accounts for him, the boss came to see his work, etc., and this same Alexander Vukic is the first Prime Minister in Serbia's recent history to publicly say that the Serbian government is not DHL, that the Serbian government is not Fedeks, so that he receives little packages from The Hague tribunal, and little to return them. And he took the protection of three SRS deputies and said -- while I am the Prime Minister, they will not be delivered to The Hague tribunal. And then they show up at the National Assembly and say, "Here comes the deputy secretary general of the NATO pact to tell Alexander Vukic to lay down an account for him." Well, you know what, so how dare you? How can you not be ashamed? The unprecedented pressures the man suffered and suffered today, but he will not deliver the three citizens of the Republic of Serbia who he considers not to be guilty. They can be called one or the other. And then you send yours, I don't know what the mayoral candidate for Belgrade is, to the National Assembly to say that Alexander Vukic was a Western mercenary and that yesterday he was making an account for the deputy secretary general of the NATO Pact. I kind of, how can I tell you, an inhuman, inhuman, incorrect relationship with Alexander Vukic I really can't understand. If anyone took you for protection, remember what the previous Prime Minister was doing? Arresting a man in Belgrade, getting him out of a hospital bed, getting him dressed up, sent over the Drina and said he was arrested by Republika Srpska police. They put handcuffs on his hands, they say – he volunteered. (The Faith of Radeta: Theme, Arsic.) Well, just let them get it. Well, that's what the same ones that Alexander Vukic took for protection. The first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia since the functioning of The Hague tribunal that said the UN tribunal has violated the fundamental rules of international law and said -- I will not deliver three Serbian citizens because the court said there are no legal conditions for delivery. And where's Wolfie? Where's Wolfie?- I'm sorry. And where were your courts before delivering people to The Hague? So, the court is as the Wolf says? You know very well, Mrs. Radeta, what the role of Alexander Vukic is. After all, I've seen you here in the halls dragging him by the sleeve and asking him if you're safe in Serbia. So you pulled him by the sleeve.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17533	A colleague of Martinovic's... I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on. (Miss Radeta: Replica. You have no right to a replica, colleague Radeta. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) Radeta colleagues, I will give it to you according to the Rules of Procedure, but before I inform you that I have interrupted the session in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, if you wouldn't, I'm telling you that... (The Belief of Radet: Well, you will give me a warning; it is not disputed. Please don't throw it at me. I'll give you according to the Rules of Procedure, you asked, but I'm telling you in advance, please listen to me, that I interrupted the session in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure so that the course of the session doesn't go where it doesn't have to go and make this personal. Be assured that I will use all the institutions, instruments from the Rules of Procedure regardless of which political parties there are violations of the Rules of Procedure and whatever political function there is in this Assembly. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17535	First, I report to you on the basis of Article 103. You severely violated him, Mr. Arsic, when, after such slander, Alexander Martinovic and his insolence, you did not allow me a replica. He called me directly and said that I was dragging the Wolf by the sleeve, that I begged him not to send me to The Hague. Shame on him, and you for not giving me the replica. Feel free to give me a warning. I wouldn't ask Wolf's life to depend on him, not the Hague tribunal. It protects me, Mr. Arsic, not Aleksandar Vukic, but the law and the judicial solution of the High Court in Belgrade. It's my protection. I responded neatly to the court's call, gave an orderly statement, waited for a solution, waited for justice, and the decision was such that there was no legal basis for our extradition, as we ourselves knew there was no legal basis. If someone thought they'd make an impression in the public that now something by Alexander Vukic, I don't know what kind of light I'm presenting, I don't need the protection of Alexander Vukic and I don't need any of the Serbian radicals. This is really inadmissible what you've allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17536	Let me answer that, colleague Radeta. When I saw where the session was going, I interrupted Mr. Martinovic and there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17537	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Don't be nervous. I'm not nervous. Do you see Natasha answering? Don't. You're upset, Veronica. You see what it's like for other MPs when I tell them something they don't like. We're not in the same parties, we can't obviously talk, and then the tolerance limits are very thin. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17538	Mrs. Gojkovic, you weren't in the O.R., and if you were safe, as an experienced lawyer and president of the Assembly, you interrupted Mr. Martinović, because you said yourself to stick to the same arches for everyone, I believe that when he abused his right as an authorised law representative who, as you say now, went a little wider, but it was such a degutant act and insult, but so much and pathetic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17539	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17540	Articles 107 and 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17541	That was it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17542	It wasn't. It was 103. This is a direct violation by whoever replaced you in the presidency. So this assembly cannot be used, Mrs. Gojkovic, and the chairman has to take care of the insults, in such an advantageous manner which is indeed...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17543	Messages, direct injuries. The Radeta lady has already advertised the Rules of Procedure. You can't advertise a direct injury right now. (The Faith of Radeta: On a second basis.) ) You can refrain from qualifications on the ground and on the ground. What's that going to do now? The chairman interrupted Aleksandar Martinovic and turned off his microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17544	Mrs Gojkovic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to the fact that the chairman did not pay attention to the fact that the agenda is not spoken of, which is a harsh lie when it comes to the point that we are talking about today, which the chairman did not mention to the person who abused it that there is no presidential system of government in Serbia, that this is not the United States, that there is a Article 112. The Constitution. The same one who knows nothing should have said whether he or Mrs Obradovic had spoken the name Ana Brnabic, because they were representatives of the largest political party at consultations, not that the thesis was being replaced, that this precious time was being misused, that the MPs were being harassed in a certain way because of the ignorance, ignorance and insolence of Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17545	You think you've insulted MP Martinovic enough now, so let's move on. As far as I'm concerned, please don't do this, I'm going to start punishing, it really doesn't make sense, these are abuses, but let me answer, your qualifications that someone said whether we have or don't have a presidential system, etc., I ask you to be equally sensitive to the untruths that Miljan Damjanovic made, saying that some MP can't propose amendments to the Law on the Ministry, but that Anna Brnabic should have done so. As you know, it can't be done by the technical government, or by a minister who deals with local self-government in the technical government, nor by a mandater. It's not my place to correct the discussion of Reverend Miljan Damjanovic, although he knew nothing about what he was saying, but he was saying. It's his right. So, he didn't rule matter at all, so don't think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure if Martinovic is talking about something. He didn't personally hurt you, you know that, and now you're gonna get rid of me. It's not a problem. I'm the victim for everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17546	I'm reporting from Article 107's first position. Indeed, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, and it is not about what you spoke to Natasa Jovanovic earlier, whether an apostle knows matter or not. The apostle can speak in the way he thinks he should speak and cannot bear the consequences of it, but to speak false is indeed a harsh insult to the dignity of me as a National MP, and of course the entire National Assembly. It had to react not when it was allowed to bring out all those lies and it wasn't the same not knowing the law and telling me that I was pulling Alexander Vukic's sleeve to beg him for something. It's really something that's absolutely inadmissible. I didn't get upset, like you told me earlier. I have no reason to be nervous, but I don't want to be told something that I wouldn't do in my greatest madness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17547	Thank you. It's pointless to talk. Article 1 is the one if the previous Member of the law has been called upon, so it has been used. I'm going to beg you to use my right to lead the session and move on. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17548	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as a member of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to join in supporting the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Ministry Act, with the conclusion that it is very useful to have these changes and through these changes we get two ministries, which are very important, and beyond necessary for the future work of the Government, which is the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Environment Protection. Serbia is already in good shape, so to speak, and in the process of Eurointegration, it has already taken a swing and a lot has already been done, and certainly in such a one process that takes hold, these jobs need to be concentrated and more studioly carried out within the framework of one ministry, the European Integration Ministry. In this we see the righteousness of all this. As far as the environment ministry is concerned, it would pay more attention to this ministry and I think it is very, very necessary. However, I believe that these jobs, which concern environmental protection, have been well and quality done in the past period, within the framework of the Ministry of Energy, which was previously led by Minister Mihajlovic. Also done during the term of office of Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, this part was then with the Ministry of Agriculture. At that time, during Ms. Snezana's ministry, Bogosavljevic Boskovic, ten laws were passed from this area, the "Green Fund", of 19 structural projects significant for the environment, financed by EU funding and co-financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget, was recovered and 16 projects were completed. Therefore, there were results from this area. However, I believe that one step forward has been made by this proposal to introduce a special ministry. We as a parliamentary group support, because we believe that, within the special ministry, this issue, in the broadest sense, can be done better. The environment represents a comprehensive resource for normal functioning and the future of civilization. In fact, only in the full capacity and wealth of the living world and biodiversity can man as a special species long-term find its sustainable survival and future. The anthropcentrist approach by which man is an absolute master of nature, and master of flora and fauna and nature, is fatal to man and his future, but also to the survival and duration of life on earth. It is also important to say that the preservation of the environment is a global issue, question number one, a pair of excellencies, which become current and because of the fact that it has already been done quite negatively by man on the nature and on the conditions of life, which means he has done a lot against himself. Otherwise, it should be pointed out politically that the environment is one of the widest and most demanding areas on the road to Serbia's EU accession. Environmental protection is dedicated in particular to Chapter 27, which implies harmonisation of national legislation with the basic objectives of environmental policy in the EU. The impact of man on the environment has never been more intense, more comprehensive and far-reaching. The future of our planet, which means the whole living world, as well as the human civilization itself, depends practically on human interrelations with nature. Today, the numbers of the world's population, with the rapid reduction of the supply of natural resources, the accumulation of contaminants, dramatically warn about the seriousness of the situation. Just breaking out of the Paris Agreement, we've recently had a chance to track it, certainly worrying, and it doesn't seem to have enough consciousness or thinking, about how important this is. Many of these issues were discussed at the first conference on life protection in 1972 in Stockholm, which meant a turning point in relation to the environment. It is very important to say that global actions to preserve biodiversity consider, not only its fundamental importance, but also its aesthetic, cultural, ethical and spiritual values for the past, present and future of people and mankind. A large number of scientists and philosophers deal with this issue. It is worth mentioning the professor of Harvard, Edward Wilson, who believes there is a significant psychological relationship to the need to preserve nature and diversity in the living world. The best example of what the professor claims is the honest thoughts and words of the Indian chief of Sjetla, who referred to US President Frank Pierce in 1854, at the president's offer to buy out the country of the Indians they lived on. And I'm going to say this, that, in fact, a man in the course of his evolution has failed and entered into the perfect harmony of biodiversity, which was the perfect environment for his evolutionary range that he has achieved today. Only in such one reflection, in such a context, can the importance of preserving the environment, not for the development of one state and one society, such as Serbia, which is a small country, but also, in general, for the survival of life on earth. For this reason, I point out that this is a very significant, global question, and I will also say my opinion, I think it is not some great wisdom, but I think it is a great truth, that the European Community, or the Union, as a set of states, has the most developed legislation, or legislation in this area, and it seems, as a matter of need, to preserve the environment. How important that is, I'll end up, too, with one statement and one attitude, and one thought, professor from Harvard, Professor Edward Wilson, who I once once pointed out in the Assembly here, and I think it's worth pointing out here. He hypothetically says – if planet Earth were found in the research focus of biologists from another planet, I believe, he says, that by observing and analysing us here on earth, he would conclude that there is, therefore, a species on the land of the dominant in the middle of his own destruction. For these reasons, it is certainly important to deepen awareness of the importance of the environment, but as part of what the global movement is on the agenda for the conservation of the environment and therefore this issue, this topic and this problem, in the context of the new government's election, deserves certainly that the new government in its composition has a ministry to preserve the environment. That is another reason why the SPS will vote with great satisfaction for these amendments and additions to the Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17549	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17550	The President-in-Office, respected colleagues and colleagues, before us is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act, third in this five-year cycle, and we are here in some way in keeping the accounts for the five-year responsibilities of your majority government, your coalition that has not changed in this period, but obviously that approaches have changed and that the need to change three times the Law on Ministrys or wandering, or inconsistencies or insufficient system in that work. There is no need for you to convince us that key changes need to be introduced through this law, which is the formation of new ministries, the environment ministry and the European Integration Ministry. There is no need for a colleague of Gordana Comic to have already spoken - so three years ago in this same assembly, you have just been proposed an amendment to form a Ministry of Environmental Protection. That's when you turned him down, you didn't accept him. Here, after three years, you admit that you made a mistake and you're going out with a new proposal, exactly the same as DS and Mrs Gordana Komic suggested. So that is a confirmation, because I would like this decision to be an expression of awareness of the need to solve key things in which all of us individuals and citizens of Serbia should not have a different opinion in the consciousness and the need to solve environmental problems in Serbia, because we breathe the same air, drink the same water. So we need to find a point where we can talk in a civilized and decent way. Environmental protection is a responsibility and I expect answers in that sense - you had a responsibility, why didn't you do it? We will respond – well, in the 1990s, prosperity in the EU, the largest European funds, when they could be used and when countries in transition, primarily Central and Eastern Europe, used these funds and solved the key civilization problems, we missed them back then. We made a mistake in the 2000s. For five years, there are no key steps, and I want to talk about how all of us as individuals can contribute to our awareness of how much it takes to solve this problem. So we have Vinci and some colleagues have mentioned -- here's a worse dump, they say not dumps, but a dump on Vicna. We breathe together that same air, we all have this problem together, we have our children, not just Belgrade, but other cities that don't have solved municipal dumps. So we can agree that this is one of the key challenges – to solve municipal dumps, to solve wastewater treatment systems. Because if we know that the only three cities in the Danube in Europe do not have wastewater treatment systems, which are Novi Sad, Belgrade and Smederevo, it tells us about what our relationship to water is, and not only to the waters, but also to the land that the waters are watering and what is later returning to us through the food and the problems we have in terms of the sustainability of the entire nation and our health of the nation. So we can agree that these are topics that need to be seriously discussed in a way that each of us makes enough contributions to do so through the strengthening and capacity of local self-government, through the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Minister who will have enough strength and support, but, above all, through the need to strengthen awareness that these are topics that are not only a matter of individual health, but also a possible development opportunity. So it's simply possible to do this because these funds will ensure continuity in the realization of such important capital projects that are not done in a year, they're not working in two years, they're not working for four, they're overcoming the cycle, the democratic cycle of each elected and local and central government. In this way, we have evidence, five years behind your authority for your responsibilities, when we draw the line you can't boast of the results, as well as the previous governments can't boast, but I think it's extremely important to skip those cycles for a year, two years, four years and ensure continuity in the realization of projects, which we shouldn't argue about. So much for the topic of ecology, the importance of forming a Ministry of Environmental Protection. My colleague Natasa Vuckovic spoke about our proposals and thoughts regarding the Ministry of European Integration, and I will speak, since I do not have much time, I will speak about something on the subject of another important area under this Bill on Amendments of the Law on Ministrys, which is the transfer of jurisdiction in the control of public enterprises from the Ministry of Business to... So here we have been presented with a proposal to transfer responsibility to the Ministry of Mining and Energy in the control of public enterprises, in particular EPS and "Serbiagas". We're talking about this kind of consistency where three years ago we had the transfer of that responsibility from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Economy. We now move from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and this is exclusively about the EPS and the "Serbigas". So no one has mentioned the argument that is seen here, and I would like to propose that a little more detail related to our responsibility, especially in the process of European integration, to separate the control of different ministries over infrastructure operators. Therefore, if we are talking about the EPS case and the ESM case or "Srbigas" and the gas distribution operator, I think we would expect a more reasoned answer to this very question, which is why the sole responsibility for EPS and "Srbigas" is being singled out, which is why this type of responsibility is not being transferred and related to other public enterprises. Another important issue is the transfer of competences related to regulations for the private public partnership, for concessions. From the Ministry of Telecommunications, we haven't heard a word about it, it's being transferred to the Ministry of Economy. So it is obvious that these individual solutions, inconsistencies, have been changed three times over the past five years with different competences, are clearly adapted to the needs of a political coalition that negotiates on the possibility of giving jurisdiction to individual ministers in these negotiations. So it's clear that this is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17551	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17552	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17553	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17554	The Dvori movement will not vote for amendments and additions to the law. It's not a floscule, but the core policy of Dvori disagrees with the amendments to the Ministry Act. We believe that these changes are economically harmful and politically unnecessary in today's situation. Today we have had opportunities here to hear from many MPs that Serbia is the country that has the best economic co-operation with the countries of the European Union. On the other hand, it's true and it's true about numbers. But I also ask peoples MPs and citizens of Serbia -- how many years back is energy, financial resources, invested in co-operation with EU countries, and what are the benefits for Serbia's economy? Besides handing over the market, except we opened the borders for foreign imports, we had no other use. We are asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia – how long did it take to form a co-operation office with the Russian Federation? One thing is said in Serbian politics and another is done. Representatives of the ruling coalition are declaring co-operation with Russia and China and opening the eastern market. In practice, however, very little has been done to make this co-operation better, to become more effective. I'll just tell you about agriculture and agriculture, that all those promises we've been hearing since 2014 when Russia's President Vladimir Putin didn't come true. I don't want to play the great Rufus here, I'm sure there are a lot of people from the ruling party's MPs, especially voters, who are for closer co-operation with Russia, but concrete things in this field haven't improved. I believe that the formation of the European Integration Ministry is absolutely unnecessary, economically harmful and that there is no point in forming this ministry when we have heard here a few peri-vans of the ruling coalition who have said that they themselves do not believe and are not sure that Serbia will join the EU. So I ask the question here - why the ruling coalition deceives the people, why it invests in certain things that are unnecessary for the Serbian economy, for Serbian agriculture and why it tends to do so and thus the Republic of Serbia, its economy and economy bring about a state of exclusion, where we are currently turning and investing only in co-operation with EU countries. I talk primarily about the economy, about agriculture. Soon there may be certain things on the geopolitical scene, which will condition that we are exposed to the moment when we will not be able to organise ourselves for faster and better exporting of Serbian products to the eastern market. We've had several years to become members and enter into negotiations with the Euro-Asian Economic Union, but we haven't done anything. On the issue of opening a distribution centre in Moscow, nothing has been done. This is just concrete evidence. This was also discussed by the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr Milos Bulgaria, who failed to open a distribution centre for Serbian products in Moscow during his term. That is why people's MPs and citizens of Serbia are invited not to believe the story of economic co-operation with the European Union, that this co-operation is harmful to Serbia's economy, that perhaps now and with the opening of Chapter 29, the Serbian government will be forced to abolish duty-free co-operation with Russia and that soon both Serbian citizens and MPs will be able to see that the European Union will push us against the wall on co-operation with Russia, primarily economic co-operation. We could hear about this in this house a few days ago, when they were representatives of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, who were particularly interested in co-operation with Russia, who were particularly interested in the duty-free export of Serbian goods to Russia and who were alone in their report, who had the opportunity to read the report of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, said the European Union has no intention of expanding its membership to the Western Balkans. So this time I repeat that the Ministry of Economic Integration is an absolute failure, that none of this will benefit either Serbian agriculture or the Serbian economy. We have only invested in the past two and a half years and given foreign investors 860m euros. That's why Serbian raspberries in southern Serbia don't have freezers today, which is why they're conditioned to sell raspberries for 80 dinars, precisely because we've invested all our energy in foreign investors for the last 17 years, in collaboration with countries that come here to take our market and that are looking primarily at their own personal interest here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17555	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17556	Thank you very much. Well, questions are being asked, so let's give some answers. So again there was the same thing and so much was washed away – what is the benefit of lying to the people to benefit, which is not said to be gone? For example, for me, the constant increase not only in imports, but also in exports is an obvious benefit. I think anyone can understand that. Perhaps I am mistaken, perhaps I overestimate someone who is a People's MP, as I am, as I expect him to understand, that, let's say, opening up additional spaces for increased exports from this country is useful for this country. Maybe I expect too much. The other thing, this is already, I have to admit, a little more complicated. That import isn't necessarily bad, and that's also true. What's good about, say, opportunities to import more favourably? It is a good thing that end-user, the consumer, is also said to be in this case Serbian citizens, can choose to spend their money on what is appropriate to him and more acceptable. They're not importing and exporting bogeys with no idea which planets. It's simple stuff. When both are accelerated and the difference is reduced, that is what we do when we are doing business with the countries of the European Union. It's good for the country, it's useful for the country. Is it good and useful for the country when, say, three billion gets out of that direction? I think so. Is it good and useful for the country to get investors out of that direction, so some people here get jobs? I think it is again. But the culmination of demagogy, indeed, is a sentence that only formally or to God, as it is said, cooperates with Russia and China. Is it possible the figuratively ironic in Smederev? Is 5,000 secure jobs that were largely questionable only to God and figuratively? This is where the fates of the people are secured. It's provided 5,000 families, it works today, and it's doing better than business and it's getting bigger. Whoever doesn't understand this won't understand, and maybe he can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17557	Thank you. Vladimir Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17558	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have heard many things today in this debate. A variety of unsolved murders have been mentioned in the past 17 years, environmental protection projects for which non-purpose funds have been spent, all of which have been accused of previous government. However, we could also talk about Savamala, we could talk about the death of honorary officers of our army in the case of helicopters, some of which are my fellow citizens, the fathers of the country's top athletes. We could distribute the sins of all previous authorities, so we could return to 88th and 8th sessions and the Yogurt Revolution, for example, in my New Sad. A dialogue on constitutional changes has been mentioned, with no moment being mentioned what constitutional changes are being discussed, whether Serbia's erdoganisation or anything else is being talked about. Of course it's not on the agenda. It is on the agenda to reorganise several ministries and certain redistributions of competences, and no one will assure us that it is not a simple redistribution of power within the ruling majority coalition partners and free trade with the influence that coalition partners of the ruling majority will have in the future government. The European Integration Ministry is being formed, the European Integration Office is being shut down. A reason? Obligations arising from European integration. What obligations? There's no detail in the explanation. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is being formed, detaching from the Ministry of Agriculture. A reason? Obligations arising from European integration. What obligations? The explanation doesn't give details again. This is not the first time European integration has been used as camouflage for everything and everything, and their essence is not explained to citizens, but instead it is being done tabloid foreign policy service of citizens. Furthermore, competences are transferred in the triangle of the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Industry. Where the Ministry of Industry gets something, and the Ministry of Energy transfers control, it actually transfers jurisdiction over the adoption of certain acts in the area of work of energy companies. And this is explained by European integration, so they, too, are founded on suspicion here, used as camouflage for something else. It was unusual, a colleague in the earlier debate said that in the transfer of power to the Ministry of Energy, the word "supervisory" was lagging behind for some reasons. We assume that the supervision will then fall under the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises and Mechanisms, which are provided for there, but will be removed from the ministries and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have two new ministries, and we believe that this is in conflict with what we have a little more than a year ago, explained here as a revolutionary exposé, as a revolutionary government that will miraculously bring to Serbia, so that then the prime minister, and the recent prime minister, will flee to the pre-election campaign and to the post of president, so that he can go from this function peacefully, without any political responsibility for the work of the Serbian government to continue to ask for everything, but that practically nothing is responsible and that he observes all of this in peace with Andric's wedding. European integration cannot be used as an excuse and as a camouflage in the scrupulous reasons of the draft legislative acts. European integration is the rule of law, and the rule of law is the right respect for the law and the Constitution, and these are the things that should lie in the hearts of all of us if we really think we're going to do such things, not just be a dead letter on paper. Finally, another small one, but to me, no less important thing. There's no reason to explain why the Electronic Administration Directorate is being shut down. There's literally no saying it. It is something that has been in charge of the recent, or still technical ministers of local self-government, who is the future prime minister and, knowing the number of MPs in the Assembly, probably the future prime minister. Why is that directorate shutting down? Do we think we've done all the work we've been planning and we've reached the top? Perhaps you could go and talk to the citizens in line and wait for medical books and driver's licenses. Let them tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17559	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as legislator of the law, I would like to refer to the presentation of the previous speaker. You're saying that Alexander Vukic escaped from office as Prime Minister, and he says he went into office as President of the Republic. Neither he fled the post of Prime Minister nor went into office as president of the Republic, but was elected president of the Republic with nearly 56% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What you have a problem with, not just you from your parliamentary group, generally from all MP groups that are opposition, is that you can't agree with yourself what you really want. Before the presidential elections were called, you were chorusly racing who would say louder that Aleksandar Vukic must not be on the line of all of you, so he must not go out on the line of Vojislav Seselj, so he must not go out on the line to Sasa Jankovic, so he must not go out on the line of Vuk Jeremic, so he must not do this, so he must not do that. The man says, "Okay, here, I'll come out on the line." And it comes out on the line and beats you all, but it beats you all together. Your presidential candidate, the gentleman you spoke of, won fewer votes than there were invalid ballots in the April 2nd election. This other presidential candidate won, at least, he said, although he won 2.2% of the vote, but he won and I congratulate him on that victory, as I congratulated him in 2016 when he won the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by winning straight 5% of the vote and then he won. Even so, he and his colleagues remain obliged to explain whether Vranje, Leskovac and Nis are part of the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Bulgaria, but we will probably welcome that day to answer that question. But there's something I want to tell you, to those of you who talk about what the rule of law is. That's what some MPs from the DS used to say today. That's what you've been saying for a year because you don't have other topics. Sinisa Mali is indeed one of the most successful mayors in Belgrade's history. There was never any more construction sites in Belgrade, but for the Mandar Sinishi Mali. The only topic you're dealing with about Cynthia the Little is - the Savamala. The concept of rule of law is a synonym for Samal. He says until the enlightened case of Savala has no rule of law in Serbia. Is there anything I can say on this subject, by the information that I have as a MP? Since you keep asking questions, and you expect us from the SNS to answer. Let me ask you a question - is it true that the owner of these illegal facilities on Herzegovina Street, a certain government of Markovic? I'm asking all of you from the opposition who campaigned against Sinisha Malloy for a year? Take it easy, don't get upset. Take it easy. Now I ask you – is it true that it is its own, I mean an illegal owner, because these are properties that are not built in accordance with the building permit. So is this illegal own, these illegal facilities certain Vlad Markovic, who was in charge of traffic issues in Belgrade's City Council on time? Is it true that this man was a member of the Democratic Party, that these facilities on Herzegovina Street were illegally issued to various companies and firms from Belgrade and, of course, a large parking space and took huge sums of money without paying the state tax, without paying taxes, without paying any taxes that were legally required to be paid? Is that the rule of law? I don't think so, and you answer me if it is or not. Next, you're talking about the rule of law. Tell me if the rule of law is when a bankruptcy manager with himself and his wife concludes a contract on the provision of bookkeeping services in 14, 15 or 18 social enterprises in which he is a bankruptcy manager. Is that the rule of law? Is the rule of law when... (Bosko Obradovic: Is that a theme? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17561	Ambassador Obradovic, you were not here today, and do not shout now, for no one speaks to you, but addresses the previous speaker. (Bosko Obradovic: It has nothing to do with the law. You don't even know what the law has to do with it, obviously. Therefore, do not interfere with the debate. Polan, keep talking. I don't know much from your exposure and I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17562	So this professional bankruptcy manager came forward. So I ask you, is it a rule of law when you're a bankruptcy manager at 15 firms and then in all these 15 companies you have concluded a contract as a bankruptcy manager with yourself and with your wife about providing bookkeeping services? Is that the rule of law? Is the rule of law when you destroy the BIP, and then the BIP concludes a contract to provide some media services, or to receive media services from a firm that is officially owned by the wife of one of your fellow MPs? Is that the rule of law? I don't think so. So when you talk about the rule of law, you know, it's a pretty complicated matter. The rule of law doesn't come down to it – let's lynch Alexander Vukic and Sinisha Mali. Let's dig a little deeper around that Savala. I tell you the truth, I wasn't very interested in this Savala until you guys pulled the affair out, so when I started messing around with that affair a little bit, and there's some illegal objects, the owner of some government of the Democratic Party, betrays parking space, issues offices, doesn't pay taxes, and then I see why it's hurting you. Wherever the money is, and someone touches your money, you lift the hall. Now the state of Serbia is the worst state in the world because three illegally erected barracks in Hercegovina Street have been destroyed, but it is no problem when you conclude a bookkeeping contract with yourself. That's great. It's European, it's democratic. There's no problem. When you overlap the tanks, it's great, it's democratic, it's European, and when you get it, when you get a gift from the Russian Federation, that's what I'm saying because of these big russians, when you get a gift from Vladimir Putin six miles 29, 30 armored vehicles and 30 transporters, that's when you're the worst man in the world, then you're a traitor, then you serve the NATO Pact, and when you get into the National Assembly of Members of the Bulgarian Party who openly say that parts of Serbia are the western Bulgarian province, then you're the biggest Serbs in the world. People, you wanted to completely distort political reality in Serbia. You'd be given authority, you'd be running the country, for 24 hours, Serbia wouldn't be there. This half of Serbia would give Bulgaria, this entire Serbian economy would give to its wife and none of us would remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17563	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marija Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17564	Thank you. Chairman, I point out the violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. You are like the chairman of this session, as well as the member of the 100th. - The president of the National Assembly when he chaires the session if he wishes to participate in the search leaves the presidency to one of the vice presidents. We've been putting up with the experience here all day, first of all, of a pronoun who abuses his time and says whatever he wants, and all that with your consent. On the other hand, you abuse a pay phone. I'm sure you know it's not knightly to hit someone tied up, and what you're doing from a pay phone all the time in this congregation looks just like that. You say what you want, you make all kinds of insinuations and insults, because if you tell someone that they don't know what they're saying, and they sit here and represent the people, it can't be true and it's not right at all. I'm gonna take the chance now that what I didn't say today...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17565	You won't take advantage of the opportunity, but only a breach of the Rules of Procedure can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17566	That's because you're going to abuse your position.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17567	No, you can't do what you respect me. You can't take the opportunity to say what you didn't say today, so now you're going to say. I understand you want to defend the president of your party and that's normal and logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17568	There's no need for me to defend him. He can defend himself. That's what you all saw.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17569	I'm not sure, you stood in front of him to defend him and I'm fine with it. It's normal to work in politics, but you can't use a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17570	Just like you're using my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17571	You don't have your time. You explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17572	You're just setting a personal example of how we should behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17573	Thank you very much. It's just that your MP is a group of rights that will explain to me how I should behave. I certainly accept that you're teaching me how to behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17574	Someone has to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17575	Someone has to? That's what my parents missed out on, obviously, and I'm gonna learn something from your MP group. That's no problem. We in Novi Sad know that we listen to people and when we don't understand them, and I didn't understand anything you wanted me to say - tie up your president and hit him? I don't know, I didn't really understand. I don't tie up your president of the parliamentary group, nor do I hit him. I said he can't yell and throw. He's in the O.R., and he doesn't know what this is about. No one's going through it, Your Honor. This is a bill of law. The MP is an authorised promoter and today he has the right, and the obligation to respond to what MPs say during the discussion, and at least there was talk today about the law, you must admit, but it is difficult for you to admit anything. That's what I'm aware of. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the order is that you listed Article 27, as well as everyone else, but it is also your right to do so, and we will vote if you insist on harming Article 27. (Maria Janjušević: No. I thank you. You can surprise me. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17576	First of all, I would like to thank the chairman and hope that this is a sign of good practice, since the previous speaker made very clear that he did not produce the basis for the replica in his presentation, so, by gathering presidential candidates in the presidential elections, he deliberately skipped to appoint the only presidential candidate who was in the hall to avoid producing the right to replication, but the chairman felt and said that the previous speaker was talking to me, which is the basis for a replica, so this is a duty of respect for the Rules of Procedure, and I welcome it. You just said that we from New Now can listen even when we don't understand and that's nice. The previous speaker is in a lack of arguments that he would attribute to us to mention some of the sins of some other parties and other authorities. I don't know if anyone from "There's enough" beat up tanks, changed nationality, declared themselves this or that, Vlach or I don't know what, to get into the assembly. As for the bankruptcy and husbands who ran the books, this is fundamentally responsible in a series of replicas at one of the previous sessions and produced very good videos that orbit the Internet and people like to watch them, indeed. But since fellow Radulovic will talk enough about it in the replica, I will stop at this finding. So, as for samamala, the one you mentioned, I don't know him, I don't know he owns it, but I know one who owns some of the facilities in samamala, and he's also our fellow citizen, and he's going to drive it to strusbur, and you're going to get the EU progress report, and you're going to have to deal with it sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17577	I'm sorry, this swan thing, I didn't understand anything, so we laughed. You mentioned some swans. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, but they're yelling so much at me, I didn't hear it. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17578	Thank you. As usual, in the absence of arguments, it moves towards untrueness, turning away from the subject. The subject is the Ministry Act. Of course, the ruling majority can't talk about it, so they're trying to falsely accuse people. I've already explained to the citizens the last time we had a similar discussion that my wife didn't even get a dime in bankruptcy, since a lawyer would have to know that, obviously, she doesn't. The bankruptcy judge approves all expenses, all contracts are approved, the trustees' board does so. Of course, I'm proud of all the thieves I've driven out of these companies, protected property, protected workers' rights, so these charges don't really touch me. As far as the BIP is concerned, the BIP ruined the SNS, or led by the SNS, and destroyed it by the SNS, while I was in the ministry, while I was a minister, no such contract was signed. What happened after that, that's really a question for the SNS. And while we were introducing order in public enterprises, forcing them to make ID cards, preventing all harmful contracts, the one who prevented all of this is today's president of the state, is, unfortunately, the president of the SNS, which violates our country's constitution. So, what citizens can see well from all these exhibitions, whenever you're justified about the subject, what's on the agenda, they go into fiction, into structures, in lies, and that's, of course, just an expression of great weaknesses, inability to bring out arguments that are being made in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17579	I'm sorry, I have to give the replica to Bosca Obradovic now, but I'm just looking for a basis. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17580	Thank you, Chairman. So I understand that the leading SNS people have a problem with Dvori representatives because we are talking about what most SNS voters will agree with when they sit down with themselves and seriously think. I don't know a lot of SNS voters who are in favour of Serbia's entry into the EU, I may not even know any. Which is why they vote for SNS and Alexander Vukic, which is another issue, but most of these people are absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU. The fact that you are now imposing some kind of European Integration Ministry, that for five years you have been leading us into the EU to destroy Serbia at every national, state and economic price, that you are ready to sacrifice and KIM on that path, that you are ready to sell out our natural and economic wealth, to lead us to NATO, to co-operate with the IMF and do everything the IMF tells you, from cutting wages and pensions to selling out our natural and economic resources, is your policy. It is my obligation as an opposition to remind you that there is a different policy, a policy that cares about national and state interests, a policy that does not serve the EU and NATO Pact and the IMF as you do, a policy that has not been blackmailed into power, so it must repay those debts to those who have brought them to power. I know it hurts. I know you're uncomfortable when I remind you of these facts that you owe someone a come-on to power. I know you're uncomfortable when I tell you that politics is the same as DS and LDP policy. I understand that this is embarrassing for someone who was once a radical, who was once a patriot, who once believed in God and in Serbia, and then sold out to Angela Merkel and the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17581	Ambassador, don't insult the statesmen around the world now. There's no need. You've got a line. Do you know what replica means? Answering what you are told, and you have not responded to the basic which is why you have received the replica, which is to answer why you advocate co-operation with a particular party from Bulgaria that has territorial claims compared to Serbia. That's why I gave you the replica. I have to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17582	And that was sent to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17583	But it was not sent to Shevarlic that was sent to you, otherwise they would not have received a replica. I have to explain. They wouldn't get a replica. There's a replica about concrete things, not allowing you to repeat something that happened this morning. Miladin Ševarlic, on what grounds? Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. I happen to mention you, really. I'll give you my word right after Vladimir Orlic, although there's no replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17584	Thank you. Right on the line, again. Well, yes, that the behavior of SNS is a sign of great weakness, that's for sure, because on the other hand, we obviously have a sign of great power, a great power of as much as 1.4%, did it drive up to 1.4%? Yeah, it's big, like, under the number of invalid ballots. Is that where it came from? Well done. It's without a doubt a great power, something more convincing, of course, immediately in the extension, which is said to be just a row apart from, 2.2 or 2.20 and something and it's just a great power, it's a terrible power. With someone so strong when we meet in a duel, I don't even know how we manage. I'm sure those circles around, someone said that something's going around here, and they're certainly showing all this that we're talking about today, that someone has abused the position to personally exploit, just like, among other things, the abuse of budget money, in order to use it personally again, and I mean those great and powerful ones that are, for example. Budgetary campaign money was transferred to their pocket. But come on, what they did, we don't expect better behavior than they did so transparently and pointlessly, ridiculously, renting themselves a heater. Can you imagine someone doing that? He rents himself a heater and even explains it, explains that it's perfectly fine and normal. As for those who don't know any SNS voters who love this or that, hands to heart, it's not the only thing that someone doesn't know. It's a long list of things that someone doesn't know, but if he's talking about the IMF, the NATO Pact, the World Bank, he can talk about on that subject with those he hugs and kisses in the Republic Square, with whom he hugs and gently kisses around the waist, who love and prefer these things. That there is no more talk here about Serbia and Serbia and Serbia's national interest by those who are the highlight of international co-operation...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17585	Thank you. Let's move on. I'm on the list now for real, Miladin Ševarlic. Did you trade with Maria Janjusevic? You don't have a replica. I mentioned you so figuratively, in a positive sense. I wasn't in the O.R., it says it's your turn now. You don't want to talk? The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17586	Thank you. I believe everyone in this room remembers, i.e. I hope so, and I am sure that citizens and citizens of Serbia remember that we chose here a little less than a year ago the government and that government and the structure of the ministries proposed the same majority team, so to speak, that is, the majority party along with its coalition partners. What remains unclear is what has changed over the past year, and you have come to the conclusion of both the promoter and all the signatories, together with the promoter, that we need two new ministries. So you've given us some arguments here and I've really been fascinated by those arguments for a year now, and when it comes to the urgency of the proceedings and the law-making process, they're, at the very least, insufficient and quite lay. Here, let's say, for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, it is proposed, given the importance that conservation and environmental protection have when it comes to the quality of life of citizens and their health. Shouldn't the quality of life and their health have been promoted a year ago? You could have asked that, if you had ever spoken to people living in Pancheva or Bora, and in the past period and with the people of Vinca, Palilula, Vozdovac, Zvezdavec, Zveztar, who are facing evaporation from a dump in Vinci and inhaling extremely toxic matter. We also have a reason here to set up a European Integration Ministry, it says, as a result of significantly higher obligations and the volume of jobs in the EU accession process, compared to the earlier ones. I have not noticed that we are rapidly approaching the process of European integration, nor that they are opening up at some lightning speed of the chapter, as well as those chapters that are open and the resolutions concerning these chapters, I have not noticed that some significant progress is happening. The only thing we've seen, in fact, is that the blackmailing potential of a coalition partner has increased, and we conclude that the formation of these two ministries is, in fact, driven by these appetites being satisfied. Also, it is very precise here to define what is in whose possession, so in the proposal to change the work of the Ministry, all that applies to all public enterprises is excluded, when it comes to companies dealing with electricity, or natural gas. It's interesting that no one noticed that there was a need for the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and for what, let's say, the Movement Enough was considered to be. We have a situation where national councils of national minority communities are left to themselves, to look, about, like, some private property, where one person or several persons have the budgets of these national councils, and members of these minorities don't often know what these projects are for, what are the objectives and outcomes of the implementation of these projects that money is spent on. Also vulnerable groups that are left behind, unfortunately, the Ministry of Labour in this composition, we have a situation to continue in the European Commission's Progress Report on Serbia we suffer great criticism when it comes to the situation of people living in institutions, which is social, health care, these people, minors, suffer torture. Somehow, we believe that, of course, these two ministries are probably important, but that far more important is the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. In the end, I really appreciate that it is perfectly cynical that you stated in your reasoning that there is no need for additional budgetary resources for the existence of these two ministries and, let's say, the justice ministry of European integration by turning the Office for European Integration into a ministry. I was watching the organization scheme of that office. There is no minister, there are no assistant ministers, there is no secretary of state, etc. and my question is whether we will face the budget rebalance here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia soon, as these two ministries are not foreseen in the 2017 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17587	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17588	So this is the fourth government in which Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic will participate in one way or another. He was p.p.v., so he was prime minister, so again the prime minister, now he's president. Why do I say that? I'm saying what I don't understand is why in the bill of this law, we suddenly have two ministries, all of a sudden trying to explain that it's very good, that it's necessary, and the previous three times that either we didn't know or didn't see it. That's why I call these two ministries the Department of Debt. The first ministry, not to be very smart, will see who gets the ministry, which political option is due to the coalition partner, and the second ministry is owed to the EU. Not long ago, in 2012, when the SNS was new on the political scene, I had the opportunity to sit and discuss with SNS representatives at many TV shows. At that time, we also talked about the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and about the EU and the LGBT population. Something's changed since then. You know, Vuk Micunović Hamzi of Niksic says – I'm wrestling and then and now, and thank God I didn't sell my soul to a stranger. Think about why you're doing this right now, why these suggestions that are good... The Ministry of Ecology is necessary, we don't need this other. We heard from three senior SNS representatives that they said they did not know when, if and whether Serbia would, enter the EU. I wouldn't mention names if I didn't pull the lines. So we don't need this. Let us consider why some of the other suggestions that we may need at this point cannot find any way through to us or to your thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17589	Thank you. You've wasted your group time. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17590	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law on ministries that practically needs to do two simple things, namely two simple things: to change, or reorganize ministries, to make one part of the work done by one office a ministry and to remove one area from one ministry and set up as an additional ministry. So from 16 we get 18. It's the topic of today's debate, nothing more than that. Neither the results of one ministry's work nor historic successes, nor the results of the elections. None of this is the subject today, and that's what we've been hearing about all day. The law is passed by emergency procedure. This assembly debate is scheduled for emergency proceedings, with the congregation debate, which began today at 10.00 hours, scheduled a day earlier at 09.10 p.m. So, 24 hours and 50 minutes before this assembly hearing. So the assembly hearing is scheduled for emergency proceedings. The law is an emergency procedure, and then an emergency procedure is required to take effect. So, not eight days after the announcement in “The Official Messenger, ” but the day of publication in “The Official Messenger. ” An incredible urgency for a law like this. So, the Emergency Procedures Assembly and the Emergency Procedure Act itself and the Emergency Procedure. Now it would be something to expect us to read in the law an explanation – and why such an urgent procedure, an urgent urgency for all these things being proposed? Otherwise, as we know, the ruling majority has been in power for five years and suddenly there is an incredible urgency surrounding this law. He says this - financial means for law enforcement, the proponent says, and the proposed colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, does not need to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement the proposed law. This means that, after this reorganisation, everything that was planned by the budget earlier will remain and now, and that this reorganisation means that the EU Relations Office disappears, that it is shut down, is likely to shut down the minister without a portfolio in charge of Eurointegration and, instead, a new ministry is being created that inherits the same budget and virtually nothing will change there. Also, when we talk about environmental protection, which is of course a very important topic, it was at the Ministry of Agriculture, it formed a new ministry, especially the Ministry, and no other budgets will be needed, which means that the same people who did this job before will continue to work for one and the other of these two important areas. Then he says the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure, and here the pronoun really went to a lot of trouble to explain to us what these reasons are, why we're doing this in such an emergency procedure. It says – the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law under emergency procedure are contained in the need to prevent adverse consequences for the work of bodies and organisations, given that it is estimated that the establishment of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of European Integration would contribute significantly to improving social relations, no less or less, in areas for which these two ministries are being educated, as well as more effective work by the state administration. This is an explanation. Then there are some logical questions, if this is an explanation, since obviously, as the proposer says, there will be some harmful consequences if we do not urgently establish these ministries, it is a question of what adverse consequences, and how many have occurred in the past five years until we have had these two ministries. It's said here that in these few days, as much as it's saved, this happens as an emergency procedure, because we're going to prevent some of the negative effects on the people. Then the question arises, he says, that this would contribute to a significant improvement in social relations. Not a word of any improvement, which social relations, in which areas and how it will contribute to the more efficient work of the state administration, not a single word. It's just practically one lame argument that offends the intelligence of the MPs. Then he says – the reasons why the law is proposed to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". For citizens watching, the laws enter into force eight days after the publication of the "Official Messenger", these are proposed to enter into force on the same day that they are announced. So he says -- it is proposed that the law enters into force on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" in order to get conditions for the work of the ministries as soon as possible, as it is estimated to contribute significantly to the improvement of social relations in areas for which the two ministries are educated, as well as more effective work by the state administration. Again, questions who assessed, on the basis of which criteria he assessed and how this will contribute significantly to improving social relations when there are no new funds, the same people in the state administration who have done these jobs will continue to carry on, only we will have two new ministers. As I see it, this is indeed an insult to common sense and MPs, as well as to the citizens of Serbia. One fundamental change here, since this reorganisation is practically just the formation of two new ministries and, practically, the settlement of coalition agreements, we have one change regarding public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17591	Ambassador, you've wasted your time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17592	How did I spend my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17593	Speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17594	How long?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17595	By talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17596	How long?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17597	Six-seven.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17598	And how much time was left?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17599	Zero time. I need to close the list, and then we move on to a member by whom...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17600	Three minutes here and there, you're counting your time on your own. Sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17601	Ambassador, you're really endlessly funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17602	I'm not funny. I'm funny. I'm funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17603	Yeah, I know. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask that those who have not applied for their rights under Article 96 be registered. Rules of Procedure. Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17604	Thank you. Let's get back to this exhibit. Amendments to the law by emergency procedure have been proposed, most urgent so far, not only to amend the law, but also to put the law into effect urgently. And this session of the Assembly is scheduled for an emergency, with arguments that are indeed below each level. I'm going to have to read again the reasons for the law. The reasons for the adoption of the proposed emergency law are contained in the need to prevent adverse consequences for the work of bodies and organisations, given that it is estimated that the establishment of a Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of European Integration would significantly contribute to the improvement of social relations in areas for which these two ministries are educated, as well as to the more efficient work of the state administration. This was written by the promoter, MP Aleksandar Martinovic and then, of course, because, indeed, the explanations are something that should not be brought like this, because they are devoid of any sense, because they say that it has been evaluated, without telling who and how it has been assessed, on the basis of which indicators, the improvement of social relations, without mentioning what it is and will practically prevent any adverse consequences, these few days how much we will save in an emergency procedure. It is forgotten that we haven't had these two ministries in five years and we really expect someone to explain to us what the adverse consequences have been in five years. Of course, since this law, with such an explanation, is not to be supported, it is obvious that the representatives of the SNS agree with us. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic himself, but it looks like Mr. Orlic Vladimir, because when they applied for the word, in discussing these laws and Mr. Orlic Vladimir and Mr. Aleksandar Dr. Martinovic signed up as unspecified, which, of course, we support. It is interesting that Aleksandar Martinovic does not support his own law, and I would not support it with such arguments where virtually completely ignoring what should be the duty of the legislator, to really explain the reasons why the law is passed, not to give such insubstantial reasons and not to spend, here all day, discussing nothing in attempts to insult the opposition, about the speech of everything except the law itself. The law itself has nothing to say, which is very clear, and apparently they have no confidence in their own law. Once again, Mr. Aleksandar Dr. Martinovic and Orlic Vladimir of the SNS parliamentary group have signed up to speak as undetermined for this law. As regards "Srbigas" and EPS, it is interesting that the Ministry of Industry, which had this item in the current Ministry Act, should be established by the Ministry to set strategic objectives, improve work and business, monitor and prepare proposals for acts on the appointment and resolution of management bodies in all public enterprises. Only public undertakings operating in the production and supply of electricity and natural gas are now singled out, and are transferred to the Ministry of Energy, unfortunately without setting strategic objectives and improving work and business and supervision, and only by preparing a proposal for appointing acts. So this part of the text is left out. There is a Law on Public Enterprises, which also regulates the part of this matter, but the Law on Ministrys would have to make it clear – the competence of the ministries for which this was left out. For EPS and "Srbigas" is indeed a question for the ruling majority for which they have not answered. Why does this same provision also stand for the Ministry of Economy, where it says that all public enterprises, except for those for the supply of electricity and natural gas, are subject to the Ministry of Economy setting strategic objectives, improving work and business, and only to these two enterprises within the Ministry of Energy do not apply this provision. So, one quick-track law, apparently part of the coalition deal. It's kind of weird, really, that we're here to discuss these things without anyone who really should be a pronoun of these things, and that's a prime minister along with all the laws. This argument, like we still don't have a government, and this law was supposed to wait for that debate, so that inside that, those who need to run the government in accordance with these laws and explain what I'm talking about. Once again, the arguments we get for the urgency of the procedure really offend the intelligence of both MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is said here to propose that the law enters into force on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in order to get the conditions for the start of work of these two ministries as soon as possible, because it is estimated, of which it is not said, that this would, to a significant extent, to what extent, no one has said, contribute to the improvement of social relations, which relations and what kind of promotion, in areas for which these two ministries are educated. It's interesting that there's not a single word about how we spent five years without these ministries and what in those days was with the social relations that remained, unfortunately, unaccompanied, where there was some damage that wasn't specified, where we didn't have this significant contribution in these areas. It is obvious that it is a really radically written explanation, which did not want to explain anything, but is mocked by both MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because the practical role of this congregation is to keep an eye on it, not as a flow water heater, missing laws like this. So, it is no wonder that MPs Aleksandar Dr Martinovic, who is the legislator of this law, and Vladimir Orlic of the SNS themselves do not support this law, but rather say they are undefined. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17605	The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17606	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. In formal logic, what I'm going to do is I think it's called redactio ad absurdum. So, let's bring it down to absurd. So will any of this Bill's amendments and amendments to the Ministry Act have any damage? However, you vote for or against, will the damage have a state, will the damage have citizens, will the budget of the Republic of Serbia be damaged? He won't. Do any additional funding from the budget are needed to establish two new ministries? No, they're not. So this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Ministry Act is not worth anything. How much did the state cost Sasa Radulovic? I see he's on the run, he's on the run. Well, it cost a lot of money. First of all, Sasa Radulovic and his business partners gathered in some political organisation "Enough was enough" were sickened by Belgrade's beer industry, malt and non-alcoholic drinks in restructuring, by the BIP's conclusion of a contract on the provision of consulting services with an advance payment of 30% in total value, i.e. that advance amounted to 690,000 dinars. It says – the payment to be made eight days from receipt of an account, and the contract is concluded between BIP and the company "Pronet", says the company's president, Sandra Savanović Stevanovic. If I'm not mistaken, it's Alexander Stevanovic's wife, the DJB MP. Here is the agreement on providing consulting services between Pronet Budimska 6, represented by Sandra Savanović Stevanovic, and the AD Belgrade beer industry, sweets and non-alcoholic drinks in Belgrade's restructuring process. So, just an advance of 690,000 dinars. This law of ours doesn't cost a single dinar, so it can be the worst in the world. I can be the most ignorant, I can be whatever you want, my bill of law doesn't cost the state anything. Sasa Radulovic has cost the state a lot. That's his godmother, isn't it, Milimer? There's more, to be honest, he doesn't know who's what. I don't think St. Peter can talk about who's there anymore, who's next to Sasha Radulovic, who's the best man, who's whose wife, who's for whom he steals. The only thing that matters to them is money. Sasa Radulovic, again, states that Serbian citizens know what kind of person it is, says -- the proposal was signed by Sasa Radulovic, sent to the Privatisation Agency, creditor of the bankruptcy manager Sasa Radulovic in the bankruptcy process of the debtor's social enterprise First Serbian Sugar Factory "Dimitrija Tucovic" 1898 Belgrade, the number of subjects and that. He says – he seeks consent to the engagement of "E-business Service" d.o.o. from Belgrade, 15/4 Student Market Street, to provide bookkeeping services, starting from 1 November 2009 until the need for engagement has ceased. Then you have in the social company The shoe factory "Moda" Kovaci also E-business service, so DPP Lune Milovanovic Bavavanište in the liquidation of the same e-business service, and then again the social company shoe factory "Moda" Fatty to re-engage the company of his wife and his own company, since the co-owners in 50% e-business service, etc. I think there's another company I managed to find, once again, the social agricultural company of Luna Milovanovic from Bavanište, to re-engage the company "E-business Service" and such contracts you have as much as you want. So, Sasa Radulovic is, otherwise, the rule of law, it exists probably in well-organised and civilized countries, those who fill our heads for a year about Savamali, as it is a miracle unseen that happened in Serbia, and a man himself as a bankruptcy manager and with his wife concludes a contract on the provision of bookkeeping services. Then he says, "I saved the Serbian economy." He also ruined the little Serbian economy we sucked out. He also tried to suck out some healthy tissue from Serbian businesses by pumping money out of these companies and transferring it to the expense of his own company. The one who saved Serbia's economy is, in fact, Aleksandar Vukic, because Sasa Radulovic ran out of the government of the Republic of Serbia. If Sasa Radulovic had remained an economy minister, we would no longer have businesses in Serbia. That's how they campaign against Alexander Vukic. They say – go to the wax museum even though they won 56% of the votes, me who won 1.1% of the votes, I have to wonder, I know everything, I know everything, I understand in bankruptcy, I understand in the economy, I understand everything, I don't trust the citizens, but you who won 56% of the votes, you go to the museum to shut you up and not say a single word about politics. Such a policy is imagined by Sasa Radulovic. Unfortunately for him, such a policy is not imagined by Serbian citizens, they want Aleksandar Vukic and SNS to first ask about what kind of policy the Serbian government will lead in the next four years. We're going to fight for that policy that was led while the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17607	Who else answers without taking advantage of the right to Article 96? The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17608	Respected, humiliated, disfigured and offended citizens of Serbia, I want tonight, at the end of this debate, as regards the Serbian Dvori Movement, to say a few words on behalf of all those citizens of Serbia who are against Serbia's entry into the EU. All polls say there's more than 40% of them. I am also obliged to explain to other Serbian citizens why the Dvori are against Serbia's entry into the European Union. After all, this government, as well as the previous government, has never allowed a referendum on whether Serbian citizens want to join the European Union at all, or are you going to force us to join the EU because you think it's good for Serbia? If you're so sure it's good for Serbia, why are you running away from a people's plea? Why not allow a national referendum, so let the people declare whether Serbia is to enter the EU or not? Is Serbia at the cost of independent Kosovo? Is Serbia's entry into the EU by a number of other concessions, blackmail and pressures that you are constantly forcing us to do? Why are you introducing the European Integration Ministry? To deceive the citizens of Serbia. These are not European integrations, these are your integrations, i.e. Serbia's entry into the EU at all costs. Europe is something else. Europe and the EU are not the same, and I ask you to finally learn that. There are a number of non-EU countries in Europe – Norway, Switzerland, Iceland. There are a number of non-NATO countries in Europe -- Austria, the Scandinavian countries. Serbia's Dvora movement has no problem with Europe. We are Serbs of the European, Christian people. We have a problem with the European Union. We have a problem with someone constantly blackmailing us. We have a problem with someone keeping us in the waiting room for the European Union for 17 years, so that our trip to the European Union can continue to be used for the continued blackmail of Serbia. We have a problem with someone using us economically, blackmailing us, putting pressure on us, harassing us. We can't stand the Brussels commissioners. We have escaped from communism from one commissioner, we do not want to return today to new, political, Brussels-based commissioners from the EU. We have nothing against European economic space right away. We believe that economic co-operation with all the countries in Europe is needed. We have against political integration. We are against Serbia's entry into the European Union as a political union that conditiones us on that path different concessions that we have to give to be admitted into your society. That's the essence of what I'm talking about here. And you, if you're so sure that the European Union is the right thing to do, why don't you finally put it on a referendum. You will not tell the citizens of Serbia the full truth, that today the European Union is in a financial crisis, in a security crisis, that there has been a huge migrant crisis, that the UK has exited the EU, that Iceland has returned the ticket to join the EU, that many countries, headed by Hungary, are criticising such a principle of Commissioners to tell us that we will live across Europe. We will not, then, fellow Messengers of the people of power. We will not be ordered to live in Serbia. We are a free, just and brave people, whom no one could ever command. Not even your exterminator commissioners will be able to do it. We are Serbs proud people. We are Christian and European people. We love Europe, but we don't love the European Union, and you'll never make us love the European Union that bombed us, which is stealing from us Kosovo and Metohija, which blackmails us and economically exploits us. We do not love the European Union, we do not trust the European Union, we have the right to do so. It supports us in this regard 40% of citizens who are against Serbia's entry into the European Union. And what is most important -- it also supports us and a huge number of Serbian Progressive Party voters and the Socialist Party of Serbia who are against Serbia's entry into the European Union. And you know it well, and that's why you complain so much when we face you with this truth. You know your voters are not for the EU. You know they're patriot voters who are against blackmail from Brussels. You want to make them. You want to change their minds. You want to force them to love whoever bombed us. We won't agree to love whoever bombed us, not the European Union that blackmails us. We want to be our own, and if you think you're so right, let's go to the referendum, and let the citizens of Serbia declare whether they are for Serbia's entry into the EU or not, and not that you are imposing on us the European Integration Ministry. It's not European integration, it's a Brussels-based central committee that thinks it can order us to live in Serbia. No, we will ask ourselves in Serbia, not Brussels, which is your boss and to whom you owe your coming to power when you issued radical ideology and moved to the West and European Union side.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17609	Thank you. You're done for tonight. He's got a proposal thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens are patriots, Serbian Progressive Party voters are patriots and precisely because patriots want to live in Serbia and do not want to live in Bulgaria. You too, dear citizens of Vranja, Leskovci, Nis, Prokuplja, Vranjska Banja, you from Pomorava, you from Bosilegrad, you from Dimitrovgrad, be calm, be calm, both tomorrow and the day after and for the next five, 10 and 100 years, you will live not in Bulgaria, but will live in Serbia, because in the elections for the President of the Republic, the Serbian patriot Aleksandar Vukic won. If the political ally, Ivan Pernar, had defeated the political ally of the one who wears vences to the Ustashas in Blyburg, that had defeated the one who received Bulgarian MPs in the National Assembly the other day talking about the accession of Western Bulgarian provinces to Bulgaria, who are saying that parts of Macedonia should be returned to Bulgaria, I would have cared for your future. But the man in the election won just over 2% of the vote. While Alexander Vukic is leading Serbia, sleep tight. Nis and Vranje and Leskovac and Kosovo Mitrovica and every other city and every other municipality and every other village in Serbia will be and will remain only in Serbia. It won't be in Croatia either, it won't be in big Albania, and it won't be in big Bulgaria either. What the gentleman who says is a professor of Serbian language, but seems to not understand in Serbian because he has an accent problem, it is now obvious that I learned in elementary school, is it so, Professor Atlagic, that there are four accentes in the Serbian language -- lengthy, long-sighted, short-circuited and short-circuited. That's how I learned. Perhaps the gentleman who spoke before me learned from some other textbooks, but I learned so and taught me how to accentuate words in Serbian. For the first time, I heard in the National Assembly that it is right to say “run, ”“ speak, ” etc. That's what I heard from him. I don't think that's right, but he's a professor of Serbian language, he seems to be right, not me. But it doesn't matter that much now. It's something else that matters. He kills himself to explain how he co-operates with the parties, he says, which are against the European Union. Ataka, people, is not against the European Union. Ataka is part of the Bulgarian government. He's in a coalition with a party called GERB. You know what that is? It's a shortcut, if I'm not mistaken, from a political organisation called Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria, that's what the party is called. Right? This is what this MP Ataka says in the Bulgarian Parliament. He does not say – I am against Bulgaria in the European Union, but says – Ataka believes it is a matter of returning to the Western borders, i.e. that it must be resolved before Serbia's accession to the European Union. So Ataka says -- Serbia can join the European Union, but without the western Bulgarian provinces in its composition. Now, that's not what you told the citizens of Serbia. So, Ataka is for Serbia's entry into the European Union, as were Bulgaria's entry into the European Union, but they want Serbia to enter the European Union without Vranje, without Leskovec, without Nis, without Prokuplje, without Aleksinec and all other municipalities and cities in that part of Serbia, without Piroth, of course, Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad, etc. You, however, can be calm. Cacak didn't mention it, but, of course, all of these parts of Serbia did. That is the fundamental difference between you and us, you would like Serbia not to enter the EU, but to lose Vranje, Leskovac, Nis and Aleksinac, and we say - no, we want Serbia in the EU, but Serbia with Niss, Leskovec, Vranje, Aleksinac, Kosovo Mitrovica, Pristina, Gracanica, Stpec, Gora, with Subotic, Novi Sad, Kragujevac. We want that kind of Serbia in the EU. Those of you who worship, you've been doing this to me all day, because there seems to be nothing else you can say. I was, not you, at a session of the Central Country Administration of the Serbian Radical Party on 11 September 2008, when Vojislav Seselj's letter from The Hague tribunal was read – we advocate Serbia's entry into the EU, but without conditions both with Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of ideology have I changed? Who did I betray? I think the same thing I thought in 2008, that Serbia should join the EU with Kosovo and Metohija, and you say Serbia should not join the EU, but we should lose Western Bulgarian provinces and give them to your friends from Ataka. We don't give any part of the Republic of Serbia to anyone. You must understand that. What's Serbian will remain Serbian. We never have to join the EU, but Nis will remain, both Leskovac and Kosovo Mitrovica in Serbia. There will be neither parts of the great Bulgaria nor the great Albania, as Srem will never be part of the great Croatia that your great friend Ivan Pernar advocates. Otherwise, your friend's grandfather said scandalous words at the National Assembly of the Kingdom of SHS, and I don't want to justify the act of Punisha Racic at all. He was responsible for his work, or misdemeanor, but the grandfather of your Pernar was also called Ivan. You know what he said to Punisha Racic when he was at the pay phone? Do you know, Mr. Vukadinovic? He said: "Come on, you Serbs, how much is it that your blood spilled on the Thessaloniki front, that we Croats pay it with gold and that you no longer mention how much blood you shed to create a common state of the southern Slovenians? That's what Grandpa Ivan Pernar said, and that's what Ivan Pernar still thinks. Dear Serbian citizens, sleep peacefully, Serbia is not led by Ivan Pernar, neither Ataka nor Bosko Obradovic, who does not know the accentes in Serbian. Serbia is led by Serbian patriot, host, a man who has received the support of Serbian citizens, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17611	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. Don't, so it's all clear. No, I mean it. So, according to article 96, you used your right to say in the remaining time what you were thinking. According to Article 96, Aleksandar Martinovic said what he felt should be said in his time. Now let's hear George Vukadinovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. No, you have no right to a replica. He understood you perfectly, and you understood him. So, only if there's a fundamental misunderstanding of the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17612	Thank you. I am surprised that my colleague Obradovic is surprised, as he was a little surprised or a half hour ago by fellow radicals. I'm here, I suppose, with the highest timer of this debate, and I've had no honor today or in previous cases to get any replica at any time, and no harm to the Rules of Procedure. I guess that's the fate of the opposition here in Serbian political life. There was a time when it was a little better, I'm not saying it was perfect, but when it was a little better. I don't think that's good, and it always comes back as a boomerang of the ruling majority. It happened, of course, to your predecessors in power. Either way, it seems a little lame now after these big words that Serbia will not split, that it will remain preserved and that Nis, Alexinac and I do not know Srem will leave Serbia. Now let's go back to these banal and trivial issues like the Ministry Act. Here, I will try in these few minutes to say something else on this subject, namely to recapitulate the position of both my colleagues and my colleagues from our Parliament club. So, yes, the Ministry of Ecology, i.e. to protect the environment, is needed, but the fact that it took five years, and after five years, colleagues from the authorities remembered to introduce him and whatever they thought of Sasha Radulovic and his movement, therefore, all that he was a war criminal with all these examples being taken out as needed, he was in one thing right. He is right that there was no reason for the urgency of passing this law, especially the urgency of this kind that we now spend all day here until the small hours and that the next week, apparently at the last minute, with the shot of the clock, a new government, or a new prime minister with members of the government, will be voted. We know, when the elections were on April 2nd, we know how long it was until then, I guess it took the government and the president's candidate to know who was going to inherit it, it needed the ruling party to know who their candidates were for the president, or the Prime Minister, and not to make one show and one drama, and there's no reason for that. I understand the nervousness. In part at least, although I don't think it should be as much in the ranks of government colleagues, not because they don't have a majority of course, but the problem is that, as many as 128 or 150 and more of you, as much as they're going to vote for this government proposal, none of them were asked before, none of them, I'm sure, so let them ask themselves, would not think, say and suggest that Miss Anna be the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister, or propose, or vote for it. It's a suggestion and it's a source of discomfort and anxiety. Also, I will not say anyone, as my colleague Bosko said, gets a little carried away, but certainly a large number of your voters and sympathisers do not support Serbia's entry into the EU, and those who support them support it at will and only when Aleksandar Vukic says so. When Aleksandar Vukic criticises and pollutes with Brussels and Western ambassadors for a few weeks or a few days, EU support in Serbia declines dramatically. When he says a nice word again, then EU support jumps and in Serbia exists among SNS voters. That's right. Anyway, they're not thrilled, especially they wouldn't be thrilled. In particular, I would not be thrilled to see the champions of your parliamentary group and the majority also say – if we enter we need to reform the system. Of course we need to reform. Of course we will co-operate with these countries and it is not nice and it is not good to spread the idea of political MPs who are Eurosceptics and against Serbia's entry into the EU, as if we are against investing in Serbia, as if we are against being expelled from factories and businesses and EU citizens. This is not at all a matter and it is an unnecessary introduction of panic and in some way informing citizens. No, it is that there are countries that are well informed and well-lived and if they are not in the EU. We know the situation in the EU. In that sense, in the morning, I proposed a referendum, instead of building a European Integration Ministry, let's make a general referendum where we will make arguments for and against, and not like this from the opportunity where the promoter, Mr. Martinovic has all the time in this world, I have 2, 3, 7 minutes. This is our situation, and if you want to make an argument for and against, I said – I will form the first policy to be supported in this fair referendum.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17613	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17614	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying that reads: thieves and frauds will want state functions, and democracy will give them that. That's Socrates' saying. You can, Mr Vlahodinovic, frown as much as you want, it's a Socrates saying and it seems she was referring, that man was psychic, for the period in Serbia from 2000 to 2012. I appreciate it when someone has the courage to stand up to me when I'm not here. I've always appreciated that kind of muscle of courage and I let the moral thunders that wanted to change their nationality to get to the Assembly always tell me what they wanted. As long as they're telling me behind my back, I'm one step ahead of them and I'll always be. There are countries that are rich, that have gold, diamonds, fertile fields, good climate, but they're poor because they're not organized, because their governments are bad. That's exactly what happened by 2012. If this government had ruled in 2004, I am sure that it would not be peaceful, such as Mr Vlahodinovic's party, to observe the March pogrom of Serbs who were of Bible proportions. I'm sure of it. If this government had ruled in 2006, I am almost certain that Montenegro would not separate and that it would today be a Serbian state, at least in the community with this Serbian state. Unfortunately, it wasn't this government that ruled this government, it wasn't this Ministry Act that gave continuity to this government, but it was these others, the Socrates governments, who were just looking at how to fill their pockets and how to rob the people as much as they could, as much as possible, so I'm sure in 2008, when they declared Kosovo independence, or our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, that this government would certainly not allow it, and that these Declarations of independence would not be, because it would certainly prevent that by its external authority and political means. That many of those who are calling for Djindjic's policy have criticised this government, I who supported Djindjic, can tell you that those over whom he does not now have a slight connection to his policy. If by any chance he were alive today, he would surely be on this side, surely he would not be on the side of this circus, for which, after the next election, a smaller tent will be needed, and for some, the umbrella will be sufficient. There are no nails left behind. If there's nothing to catch on to, they'll even sweat their shirt so we can hang it so it can dry. They didn't do anything, except they were people's machines. If anyone can push the lottery to the ground, and I'm resented by that gentleman for showing some pictures. Here are the contracts with the lottery. So someone doesn't buy luckys, that's that government organization, someone doesn't buy luckys, but they win the lottery. It's a million dollars, and then they push the lottery to lose. What they were, they'd ruin an anvil. Who can push Lutria into losing 140 million, that can also ruin an anvil. I resent showing photos, but I have to. That love between a donor and a lucky winner is still going on. As I recall, there's a lucky winner with Boris Tadic. They must evaluate memories of how nice it was to win the lottery and not buy any tickets at all. I know my colleague didn't even try to stop the martian pogrom. I know my colleague didn't even try to stop Montenegro's secession, detachment. I know he didn't even try to prevent the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, or that declaration, as I know he didn't even want to prevent, I guess he won the lottery, or signing an SAA, or paraphrasing by a party he entered this parliament with. So, this SAA that was executed in the agricultural area, which had predicted and sold real estate to foreigners, was initialled in 2007 by Vojislav Kostunica, and only Djelic signed it in 2008. Just that our viewers know who is all involved in this work and who tried primarily to sell the Serbian country, most likely the one they sold for three euros a hectare, 100 euros a hectare, the one that 300,000 hectares sold for 50m euros and the average cost of selling the country 200 euros. We achieve a better price in the lease, and today they are the most throatful who protect Serbian ornaments, and they have easily sold out 300,000 hectares, and then the SAA predicted that – I can't sell the country, Mr Atlagic can't, these are small areas, foreigners are interested in big and horse riding who has. The land could only be sold by someone who had previously bought 300,000 hectares with robbery privatisation and grabbing for 50m euros. Fearing change, they were like tycoons through that power, through the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the government of Zoran Zivkovic, Mr Cvetkovic, they wanted to capitalise on what they acquired through the government as soon as possible. They didn't have much to do with it. They say, 17.1 billion. That's not true. They forget to forgive London and the Paris Club of Five Billion, which they have again fulfilled. That is why it seems that during the government of Zivkovic and Kostunica, the debt did not grow. He did grow up. Five billion were forgiven, so it's filled. Second, donor support was four comas something billion, which is nine and a half billion. The proceeds from the privatisation, where everything that wasn't nailed to the country was sold, stolen, were 6.7 billion. That's the sum between 15 billion and 16 billion and that 17, that's 33 billion. They didn't cost us as little as they want to show. Today they're complaining about two ministries, and they were 25. They're rebelling over environmental protection. It is normal to single out environmental protection from agriculture, especially in the part of the time to come, when there is a need for increased training, to be strengthened in the protection of the environment in order to meet certain conditions. About the European Integration Ministry, I'm asking you that it's not that way, it's one way, and the other is a destination, whether we're going to enter or not, it'll show time. Citizens have given this policy more support than a referendum. It's hard for someone in the referendum to get 56% of the votes. The government did not hide its commitment to Russia or the EU, and therefore the presidential candidate of these parties received 56% of the votes. I think it's a better referendum than a referendum where, in a campaign, there's far more citizens to define it. The difference between destination and road is great. If we were not on that path, the big question is whether we would have 80% coverage of imports by exporting to the EU. According to CEFTA, we have a surplus, and according to Russia, we have a billion-dollar deficit. It is a big question whether the Chinese would invest and others if it were not for the chance to place their goods towards the EU, whether these investments that only can bring new technologies and new jobs, would that have happened if it wasn't for the road that should lead us to the destination, and not necessarily. In the end, let me say that we must be complex, if possible, the style is half the victory. I don't believe in the style of those who hate their own country, but I call on them to show at least one degree of style. They lost the mostferious elections that were held after 2000, and I believe that if they change their attitude, that citizens will appreciate them more. We must be wise, devoted. There's no pearl in every shell, but we have to open each one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17615	Djordje Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17616	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, we agree with you when you say that Serbian citizens can sleep peacefully. But here, just before good night, let's say a few words after this is exhausted and I'd say a very good debate. So, I'm going to repeat what I said first during the debate in principle, which is that the remarks we heard and the criticisms we heard about at the expense of the law that we're having today, only depends on what aspect you're looking at the position of the government, or whether you're the government or the opposition, and I said in the debate in the principle that this is somewhat for us and understandable. The SPS Parliament Club believes that we have a very good legal proposal, that by adopting this legislative proposal we create a good foundation that will allow the future government of the Republic of Serbia to successfully realise what will be declared objectives and principles and will be defined in the exposé of the prime minister. We believe that we have a functional and sustainable model and that this model should also be applicable to some future governments, not to adapt the laws to the current political moment and coalition agreements when forming and establishing some future governments. There were words that the law was the result of some political agreements and political trade. This is not any political declaration, this is primarily the result of real needs in order to have a more efficient and better-organised state, i.e. to make the ministries within the government of the Republic of Serbia function better and more efficiently in Serbia's interest, in the interests of Serbian citizens. The Socialist Party of Serbia with the SNS, we also said during today's debate, has a strategic and long-term partnership and the results of this partnership are visible, and yes, we want to deepen relations with the SNS, because we believe that by doing so, we are working in the best interests of our citizens. But we don't talk to coalition partners at that level that we view the government as a cookie that needs to be shared, and we don't talk about who's going to do what, that's not the key question. The key question is what we can do for Serbia and what we can do in the next time period for Serbian citizens, and we have a good basis, these are the historical results of the still current Government of the Republic of Serbia. Personal solutions are important, but we will talk about it when we hear the composition of the cabinet and when we hear the exposés of the prime minister. For us, the most important policy of continuity is for us, the most important political stability is for us, and it is important for us to continue the path of progress, reforms, growth, development, modernisation, change. There's been a lot of talk about the past. Let me say, with all due respect to all the other political parties, as the party that has perhaps the most political experience on Serbia's political scene, we have learned lessons from our past, we affirm what was good and we are learning lessons from what was not good, which could not be said for some other political parties that put the accent on the past today, but of course we leave it to them. Serbia is independent, democratic and free and as someone, one of the presidential candidates in an attempt to say a few days ago – no one kidnaps Serbia, democracy accomplishes in the elections, and citizens have made it very clear in the elections that they do not want to go back to the past, that they do not want to return to the period of robbery privatisation, the period when they stayed on the street and without work, that they want what they were talking about today, which is peace, stability and a better standard of living. We will see that in a personal sense, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will look at the next period of time, but what we are fully in, and we will see and look at both the declared objectives and principles through the exposés of the prime minister, but what we are fully convinced of will not be pro-Serbian or pro-European or pro-American, it will be a pro-Serbian government, the Serbian government that will have, above all, Serbia and the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17617	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17618	Thank you. It's late enough, and I won't be long. I just want to, as the order requires, first of all to thank everyone for the excellent debate today, for a really great debate, primarily with MPs from the SNS Group, but also with our friends, partners from other parliamentary groups who supported the bill. It was an extremely good debate and how good it was and how good the argument on our part was given today, so I think it's enough talking and the situation in the O.R. right now. So, here, at the end of the day and at the end of this debate, if that's acceptable, I'd like to invite my colleagues from the technique who organize this transmission to record a little bit of what the hall looks like on the other side, to record these empty benches, to see very well how they've submitted to the exchange of arguments with us those who call themselves an opposition. It's all completely empty here, not counting the few places, although there's something quiet and they seem very pale. And those who asked for dialogue, they all seemed right to that door, and it shouldn't be surprising again. Whoever of Serbia's citizens followed the course of the debate today could personally see that they were absolutely defeated in the exchange of arguments, that three, not three, four presidents of parliamentary groups on that side of the hall, the authorised proponent, Mr. Martinovic, had literally turned upside down and left his shoes. In their place, nothing else was expected but to make us out of the O.R. as many feet as they carry them. I will, with this gratitude to my colleagues for doing an extraordinary job today to offer three more comments on the questions raised at the very end, as the order again requires. The first thing, as far as Mr. Radulovic is concerned, I certainly don't mention him, as some here have a custom, when he's not here and I wouldn't have done it if he hadn't mentioned our last name five times, wanting to provoke, cause a reaction, and then again, like everyone else, he bravely escaped. Since he has already said that some clips are hanging around his head, he will surely see this answer on the plunger. So we're not hiding that we support these laws, there's no confusion. Why I personally wanted to be categorized among those who are without the "yes" or "no", not "undetermined", I'm very specific, but without a mark, it's because I know that he always says so, I wanted to be in the same part of the list of speakers, because I wanted to ask him one question. It doesn't apply to those money he transferred to his MPs and their companies. This is something brand-new. In fact, I saw on the official website of his citizens' association, which is actually a group of citizens, wanting to be presented as a party, there are not enough signatures in the papazian region, one text saying that the money that they transferred to their pockets, among other things, besides those heaters and computers, was transferred for food and drink needs for people working on social networks. So, for food and drink purposes for people who work on social networks. I wanted to ask him, because every once in a while there's a comment on the subject that some people for juice and a sandwich are engaged on social networks, because they're the ones that are hired by him. If that's you, I'd like to congratulate him on the fact that we've been able to locate them at last after so many stories on the subject. The second thing, last name of our colleague Vlahovic, I wanted to say that he does not see the difference between European integration and the level of investment in a particular society, it is unfortunately a situation in which I cannot help. What someone doesn't see, doesn't understand, doesn't understand, is going to be a matter he has to resolve alone, but last and not least, of course, because it's about a person I'm particularly pleased with, for the man who decided to escape these days from the fateful name Pernar, that is to replace him for the code name Tuta Bulgarin. I just wanted to say it's not at all controversial. We can talk about Europe, the offer still stands, as soon as he can say that word without making a mistake. As far as debts are concerned, we owe absolutely to no one outside the Republic of Serbia, but yet, full of understanding as I am, I understand that someone is burdened with the question of debts, if he owes money, as it were, Professor Atlagic, the monastery, takes the money to open the monastery, Hilandar, in a large monastery, to open a publishing house, and spend it on the party. How many thousand? That's terrible. Five thousand euros. When he thinks about it and deals with it, he must be burdened with debts under the new code name Tuta Bulgarian. At the very end, the matter of the referendum, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the EU, subsidies, investments, whatever you want, as far as any political issue is concerned, we had a referendum in Serbia this year, in 2017 in the presidential elections. The people of Serbia said what they think about different political issues and said that what we advocate and what we recognise and praise for a reason as well, and what is a direct consequence of the proper state-run policy of Aleksandr Vukic, the people of Serbia absolutely supports. Thank you again, everyone. We continue in the same rhythm in detail. Good night.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-24-0.u17619	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. The session continues with a debate on Monday's amendments at ten o'clock. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 118 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW AND THE MINISTRATIVE LAW As the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Djordje Vukadinovic and together Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
